

1. Toxicol Appl Pharmacol. 2013 Sep 15;271(3):309-23. doi: 
10.1016/j.taap.2010.03.019. Epub 2010 Mar 29.

Approaches to advancing quantitative human health risk assessment of 
environmental chemicals in the post-genomic era.

Chiu WA(1), Euling SY, Scott CS, Subramaniam RP.

Author information:
(1)National Center for Environmental Assessment, U.S. Environmental Protection 
Agency, Washington DC, 20460, USA. Electronic address: chiu.weihsueh@epa.gov.

The contribution of genomics and associated technologies to human health risk 
assessment for environmental chemicals has focused largely on elucidating 
mechanisms of toxicity, as discussed in other articles in this issue. However, 
there is interest in moving beyond hazard characterization to making more direct 
impacts on quantitative risk assessment (QRA)--i.e., the determination of 
toxicity values for setting exposure standards and cleanup values. We propose 
that the evolution of QRA of environmental chemicals in the post-genomic era 
will involve three, somewhat overlapping phases in which different types of 
approaches begin to mature. The initial focus (in Phase I) has been and 
continues to be on "augmentation" of weight of evidence--using genomic and 
related technologies qualitatively to increase the confidence in and scientific 
basis of the results of QRA. Efforts aimed towards "integration" of these data 
with traditional animal-based approaches, in particular quantitative predictors, 
or surrogates, for the in vivo toxicity data to which they have been anchored 
are just beginning to be explored now (in Phase II). In parallel, there is a 
recognized need for "expansion" of the use of established biomarkers of 
susceptibility or risk of human diseases and disorders for QRA, particularly for 
addressing the issues of cumulative assessment and population risk. Ultimately 
(in Phase III), substantial further advances could be realized by the 
development of novel molecular and pathway-based biomarkers and statistical and 
in silico models that build on anticipated progress in understanding the 
pathways of human diseases and disorders. Such efforts would facilitate a 
gradual "reorientation" of QRA towards approaches that more directly link 
environmental exposures to human outcomes.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.taap.2010.03.019
PMID: 20353796 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Assessment. 2013 Apr;20(2):242-52. doi: 10.1177/1073191111411658. Epub 2011 Jun 
10.

How much power and speed is measured in this test?

Partchev I(1), De Boeck P, Steyer R.

Author information:
(1)K. U. Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.

An old issue in psychological assessment is to what extent power and speed each 
are measured by a given intelligence test. Starting from accuracy and response 
time data, an approach based on posterior time limits (cut-offs of recorded 
response time) leads to three kinds of recoded data: time data (whether or not 
the response precedes the cut-off), time-accuracy data (whether or not a 
response is correct and precedes the cut-off), and accuracy data (as 
time-accuracy data, but coded as missing when not preceding the time cut-off). 
Each type of data can be modeled as binary responses. Speed and power are 
investigated through the effect of posterior time limits on two main aspects: 
(a) the latent variable that is measured: whether it is more power-related or 
more speed-related; (b) how well the latent variable (of whatever kind) is 
measured through the item(s). As empirical data, we use responses and response 
times for a verbal analogies test. The main findings are that, independent of 
the posterior time limit, basically the same latent speed trait was measured 
through the time data, and basically the same latent power trait was measured 
through the accuracy data, while for the time-accuracy data the nature of the 
latent trait moved from power to speed when the posterior time limit was 
reduced. It was also found that a reduction of the posterior time limit had no 
negative effect on the reliability of the latent trait measures (of whatever 
kind).

DOI: 10.1177/1073191111411658
PMID: 21665882 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Autism. 2013 Mar;17(2):172-83. doi: 10.1177/1362361311409960. Epub 2011 Jun 29.

Does central coherence relate to the cognitive performance of children with 
autism in dynamic assessments?

Aljunied M(1), Frederickson N.

Author information:
(1)University College London, UK, and Ministry of Education, Singapore.

Central coherence refers to an in-built propensity to form meaningful links over 
a wide range of stimuli and to generalize over as wide a range of contexts as 
possible. In children with autism this ability is diminished, and the impact of 
central coherence deficits in children with autism have previously been observed 
using static measures of learning, such as reading comprehension test 
performance. In this study, the relationship between central coherence and more 
dynamic indicators of learning are investigated. The responses of 52 children 
with autism (mean age 9:10 years) on a test of central coherence and a dynamic 
assessment task were analysed. All the children showed significant improvements 
in dynamic assessment test scores after mediation; however, among those with 
below average nonverbal intelligence scores, weak central coherence was 
significantly associated with smaller gains in performance after teaching. 
Implications for the validity of dynamic assessments for children with autism 
are discussed.

DOI: 10.1177/1362361311409960
PMID: 21715547 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Food Chem Toxicol. 2013 Apr;54:50-8. doi: 10.1016/j.fct.2011.06.052. Epub 2011 
Jun 23.

Effects of docosahexaenoic acid and methylmercury on child's brain development 
due to consumption of fish by Finnish mother during pregnancy: a probabilistic 
modeling approach.

Leino O(1), Karjalainen AK, Tuomisto JT.

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Health and Welfare, Terveyden ja hyvinvoinnin laitos, 
Kuopio, Finland. Olli.leino@thl.fi

Fish contains both beneficial substances e.g. docosahexaenoic acids but also 
harmful compounds e.g. methylmercury. Importantly, the health effects caused by 
these two substances can be evaluated in one common end point, intelligence 
quotient (IQ), providing a more transparent analysis. We estimated health 
effects of maternal fish consumption on child's central nervous system by 
creating a model with three alternative maternal fish consumption scenarios 
(lean fish, fatty fish, and current fish consumption). Additionally, we analyzed 
impacts of both regular fish consumption and extreme fish consumption habits. At 
the individual level, the simulated net effects were small, encompassing a range 
of one IQ point in all scenarios. Fatty fish consumption, however, clearly 
generated a beneficial net IQ effect, and lean fish consumption evoked an 
adverse net IQ effect. In view of the current fish consumption pattern of 
Finnish mothers the benefits and risks seem to more or less compensate each 
other. This study clearly shows the significance of which fish species are 
consumed during pregnancy and lactation, and the results can be generalized to 
apply to typical western population fish consumption habits.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fct.2011.06.052
PMID: 21723361 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Health Psychol. 2013 Apr;32(4):353-60. doi: 10.1037/a0025537. Epub 2011 Sep 19.

The associations between personality, diet and body mass index in older people.

Mõttus R(1), McNeill G, Jia X, Craig LC, Starr JM, Deary IJ.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, University of 
Edinburgh, Scotland, UK.

OBJECTIVE: Personality traits are related to numerous health outcomes and 
health-related behaviors. To date, however, little is known about how 
personality traits are associated with dietary behavior, an important aspect of 
lifestyle in the current "toxic food environment." The present study 
investigated the associations of between Five-Factor Model personality traits, 
dietary patterns, and body mass index (BMI).
METHODS: The sample consisted of 1,091 members of Lothian Birth Cohort 1936 
tested at age 70 years. Dietary patterns were measured using a detailed and 
validated food frequency questionnaire (FFQ). Principal components analysis of 
the FFQ items identified four dietary dimensions, which were named 
'Mediterranean style diet,' 'health aware diet,' 'convenience diet,' and 'sweet 
foods'. Personality traits were measured with NEO Five-Factor Inventory. The 
effects of childhood intelligence, education, and sex were controlled.
RESULTS: Endorsing the Mediterranean style diet dimension was associated with 
high Openness and Extraversion, and low Neuroticism. High scores on the health 
aware diet dimension were associated with high Agreeableness and 
Conscientiousness. Endorsing the convenience diet dimension was associated with 
low Openness and high Neuroticism. Preference for sweet foods was associated 
with low Openness. High BMI was associated with high scores on the convenience 
diet dimension and low Conscientiousness.
CONCLUSIONS: Personality traits, especially Openness, are associated with 
dietary patterns in older age. The pattern of findings may indicate that, in 
older people, dietary habits may be less related to how controlled they are and 
more related to their levels of openness and emotional and social adjustment. 
Policy implications are discussed.

2013 APA, all rights reserved

DOI: 10.1037/a0025537
PMID: 21928903 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. World J Biol Psychiatry. 2013 Mar;14(2):114-20. doi: 
10.3109/15622975.2011.604350. Epub 2011 Sep 22.

The KCNH2 gene is associated with neurocognition and the risk of schizophrenia.

Hashimoto R(1), Ohi K, Yasuda Y, Fukumoto M, Yamamori H, Kamino K, Morihara T, 
Iwase M, Kazui H, Takeda M.

Author information:
(1)Molecular Research Center for Children's Mental Development, United Graduate 
School of Child Development, Osaka University, Kanazawa University and Hamamatsu 
University School of Medicine, Osaka, Japan. hashimor@psy.med.osaka-u.ac.jp

OBJECTIVES: A genetic variant (rs3800779; M30) in the KCNH2 gene has been 
associated with schizophrenia, a lower intelligence quotient (IQ) and processing 
speed scores, altered brain functions and increased KCNH2-3.1. mRNA levels in 
the hippocampus. The aims of this study were to investigate whether the KCNH2 
polymorphism is associated with schizophrenia-related neurocognitive deficits 
and to confirm the association between the variant and schizophrenia.
METHODS: The effects of the risk genotype on IQ and seven neurocognitive 
batteries were examined by the analysis of covariance in 191 healthy subjects. 
We performed a meta-analysis of the association between M30 and schizophrenia 
using five independent ethnic groups (1,720 cases; 2,418 controls).
RESULTS: Consistent with the previous study, we provided evidence that subjects 
with the risk T carriers had significantly lower IQ scores than those with the 
G/G genotype (P = 0.048). Of the seven neurocognitive batteries, subjects with 
the risk genotype demonstrated lower performances on attention/vigilance (P = 
0.0079) and working memory (P = 0.0066) relative to subjects with the G/G 
genotype. Meta-analysis demonstrated evidence for an association between M30 and 
schizophrenia without showing heterogeneity across studies (odds ratio = 1.18; P 
= 0.0017).
CONCLUSIONS: These data suggest that the KCNH2 polymorphism could be associated 
with schizophrenia-related neuropsychological deficits and the risk of 
developing schizophrenia.

DOI: 10.3109/15622975.2011.604350
PMID: 21936766 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Schizophr Bull. 2013 Jan;39(1):186-96. doi: 10.1093/schbul/sbr125. Epub 2011 Oct 
5.

Social cognitive impairments and negative symptoms in schizophrenia: are there 
subtypes with distinct functional correlates?

Bell MD(1), Corbera S, Johannesen JK, Fiszdon JM, Wexler BE.

Author information:
(1)VA Connecticut Healthcare System, Rehabilitation Research and Development 
Service, West Haven, CT, USA. morris.bell@yale.edu

Social cognitive impairments and negative symptoms are core features of 
schizophrenia closely associated with impaired community functioning. However, 
little is known about whether these are independent dimensions of illness and if 
so, whether individuals with schizophrenia can be meaningfully classified based 
on these dimensions (SANS) and potentially differentially treated. Five social 
cognitive measures plus Scale for the Assessment of Negative Symptoms (SANS) and 
Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) scores in a sample of 77 
outpatients produced 2 distinct factors--a social cognitive factor and a 
negative symptom factor. Factor scores were used in a cluster analysis, which 
yielded 3 well-defined groupings--a high negative symptom group (HN) and 2 low 
negative symptom groups, 1 with higher social cognition (HSC) and 1 with low 
social cognition (LSC). To make these findings more practicable for research and 
clinical settings, a rule of thumb for categorizing using only the 
Mayer-Salovey-Caruso Emotional Intelligence Test and PANSS negative component 
was created and produced 84.4% agreement with the original cluster groups. An 
additional 63 subjects were added to cross validate the rule of thumb. When 
samples were combined (N = 140), the HSC group had significantly better quality 
of life and Global Assessment of Functioning (GAF) scores, higher rates of 
marriage and more hospitalizations. The LSC group had worse criminal and 
substance abuse histories. With 2 common assessment instruments, people with 
schizophrenia can be classified into 3 subgroups that have different barriers to 
community integration and could potentially benefit from different treatments.

DOI: 10.1093/schbul/sbr125
PMCID: PMC3523908
PMID: 21976710 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. J Learn Disabil. 2013 Jul-Aug;46(4):304-16. doi: 10.1177/0022219411421810. Epub 
2011 Nov 4.

The identification and performance of gifted students with learning disability 
diagnoses: a quantitative synthesis.

Lovett BJ(1), Sparks RL.

Author information:
(1)Elmira College, Elmira, NY 14901, USA. blovett@elmira.edu

Much has been written about gifted students with learning disabilities, but 
there have been few large-scale empirical investigations, and the concept has 
proven controversial. The authors reviewed the available empirical literature on 
these students, focusing on (a) the criteria by which the students were 
identified and (b) the students' performance on standardized tests of ability 
and achievement. In addition, the test scores of these students were aggregated 
to determine typical performance levels. A total of 46 empirical articles were 
reviewed, and major findings included wide variability in identification 
criteria across studies, frequent reliance on dubious methods of learning 
disability identification, and a lack of academic impairment among the 
identified students. Implications for the "gifted/LD" category are discussed.

DOI: 10.1177/0022219411421810
PMID: 22057201 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. Hum Brain Mapp. 2013 Feb;34(2):374-83. doi: 10.1002/hbm.21446. Epub 2011 Nov 11.

Common structural correlates of trait impulsiveness and perceptual reasoning in 
adolescence.

Schilling C(1), Kühn S, Romanowski A, Banaschewski T, Barbot A, Barker GJ, Brühl 
R, Büchel C, Charlet K, Conrod PJ, Czech K, Dalley JW, Flor H, Häke I, Ittermann 
B, Ivanov N, Mann K, Lüdemann K, Martinot JL, Palafox C, Paus T, Poline JB, 
Reuter J, Rietschel M, Robbins TW, Smolka MN, Ströhle A, Walaszek B, Kathmann N, 
Schumann G, Heinz A, Garavan H, Gallinat J; IMAGEN consortium.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, Charité University Medicine 
Campus Mitte, Berlin, Germany. christina.schilling@charite.de

BACKGROUND: Trait impulsiveness is a potential factor that predicts both 
substance use and certain psychiatric disorders. This study investigates whether 
there are common structural cerebral correlates of trait impulsiveness and 
cognitive functioning in a large sample of healthy adolescents from the IMAGEN 
project.
METHODS: Clusters of gray matter (GM) volume associated with trait 
impulsiveness, Cloningers' revised temperament, and character inventory 
impulsiveness (TCI-R-I) were identified in a whole brain analysis using 
optimized voxel-based morphometry in 115 healthy 14-year-olds. The clusters were 
tested for correlations with performance on the nonverbal tests (Block Design, 
BD; Matrix Reasoning, MT) of the Wechsler Scale of Intelligence for Children IV 
reflecting perceptual reasoning.
RESULTS: Cloningers' impulsiveness (TCI-R-I) score was significantly inversely 
associated with GM volume in left orbitofrontal cortex (OFC). Frontal clusters 
found were positively correlated with performance in perceptual reasoning tasks 
(Bonferroni corrected). No significant correlations between TCI-R-I and 
perceptual reasoning were observed.
CONCLUSIONS: The neural correlate of trait impulsiveness in the OFC matches an 
area where brain function has previously been related to inhibitory control. 
Additionally, orbitofrontal GM volume was associated with scores for perceptual 
reasoning. The data show for the first time structural correlates of both 
cognitive functioning and impulsiveness in healthy adolescent subjects.

Copyright © 2011 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/hbm.21446
PMCID: PMC6870151
PMID: 22076840 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Hum Brain Mapp. 2013 May;34(5):1025-34. doi: 10.1002/hbm.21492. Epub 2011 Dec 3.

White matter structures associated with emotional intelligence: evidence from 
diffusion tensor imaging.

Takeuchi H(1), Taki Y, Sassa Y, Hashizume H, Sekiguchi A, Nagase T, Nouchi R, 
Fukushima A, Kawashima R.

Author information:
(1)Smart Ageing International Research Center, Institute of Development, Aging 
and Cancer, Tohoku University, Sendai, Japan. takehi@idac.tohoku.ac.jp

Previous studies of brain lesions, functional activity, and gray matter 
structures have suggested that emotional intelligence (EI) is associated with 
regions involved in the network of social cognition (SCN) and in somatic marker 
circuitry (SMC). Our new study is the first to investigate the association 
between white matter (WM) integrity and EI. We examined this relationship in the 
brain of healthy young adult men [n = 74, mean age = 21.5 years, standard 
deviation (SD) = 1.6] and women (n = 44, mean age = 21.9 years, SD = 1.4). We 
performed a voxel-based analysis of fractional anisotropy, which is an indicator 
of WM integrity, using diffusion tensor imaging and used a questionnaire (EI 
Scale) for measuring EI to identify the correlation of WM integrity with 
individual EI factor (intrapersonal, interpersonal, and situation management 
factors). Our results showed that (a) the intrapersonal factor of EI was 
positively correlated with WM integrity in the right anterior insula, and (b) 
the interpersonal factor of EI was associated with WM integrity in a part of the 
right inferior longitudinal fasciculus (ILF). The right anterior insula is one 
of the important nodes of the SMC, whereas the ILF connects the visual cortex 
and areas related to SCN, and thus, is a part of the SCN. Our findings further 
support the notion that the brain regions involved in the SCN and in the SMC are 
associated with EI.

Copyright © 2011 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/hbm.21492
PMCID: PMC6870451
PMID: 22139821 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. J Intellect Disabil Res. 2013 Jan;57(1):21-38. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2788.2011.01512.x. Epub 2011 Dec 6.

More academics in regular schools? The effect of regular versus special school 
placement on academic skills in Dutch primary school students with Down 
syndrome.

de Graaf G(1), van Hove G, Haveman M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedagogics, Ghent University, Belgium. 
graaf.bosch@ziggo.nl

BACKGROUND: Studies from the UK have shown that children with Down syndrome 
acquire more academic skills in regular education. Does this likewise hold true 
for the Dutch situation, even after the effect of selective placement has been 
taken into account?
METHOD: In 2006, an extensive questionnaire was sent to 160 parents of 
(specially and regularly placed) children with Down syndrome (born 1993-2000) in 
primary education in the Netherlands with a response rate of 76%. Questions were 
related to the child's school history, academic and non-academic skills, 
intelligence quotient, parental educational level, the extent to which parents 
worked on academics with their child at home, and the amount of academic 
instructional time at school. Academic skills were predicted with the other 
variables as independents.
RESULTS: For the children in regular schools much more time proved to be spent 
on academics. Academic performance appeared to be predicted reasonably well on 
the basis of age, non-academic skills, parental educational level and the extent 
to which parents worked at home on academics. However, more variance could be 
predicted when the total amount of years that the child spent in regular 
education was added, especially regarding reading and to a lesser extent 
regarding writing and math. In addition, we could prove that this finding could 
not be accounted for by endogenity.
CONCLUSION: Regularly placed children with Down syndrome learn more academics. 
However, this is not a straight consequence of inclusive placement and age 
alone, but is also determined by factors such as cognitive functioning, 
non-academic skills, parental educational level and the extent to which parents 
worked at home on academics. Nevertheless, it could be proven that the more 
advanced academic skills of the regularly placed children are not only due to 
selective placement. The positive effect of regular school on academics appeared 
to be most pronounced for reading skills.

© 2011 The Authors. Journal of Intellectual Disability Research © 2011 Blackwell 
Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2788.2011.01512.x
PMID: 22141327 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. Nervenarzt. 2013 Jan;84(1):65-71. doi: 10.1007/s00115-011-3434-0.

[Persons held in preventive detention (§ 66 Criminal Code): characteristics of 
offenders and the impact on prospects for successful completion of therapy].

[Article in German]

Gairing SK(1), de Tribolet-Hardy F, Vohs K, Habermeyer E.

Author information:
(1)Zentrum für Forensische Psychiatrie, Psychiatrische Universitätsklinik 
Zürich, Lenggstr. 31, 8032 Zürich, Schweiz.

With its verdict in May 2011 the German Federal Constitutional Court declared 
the current law for preventive detention unconstitutional and obliged the 
legislative bodies to undertake a freedom- and treatment-oriented reform. 
Psychiatrists and psychotherapists are bound to provide therapeutic concepts. 
Currently there is a lack of information on the intended clientele. In our study 
we examined 26 persons serving preventive detention, 32 regular prisoners and 29 
non-delinquent probands. The groups were matched according to age and 
intelligence. We gathered sociodemographic data, criminal records and conducted 
the tests SCID I, SCID II und PCL-R, K-FAF and BIS-11 to obtain diagnoses and 
characteristics. Based on this information, the HCR-20 and GAF were performed. 
In comparison to regular prisoners and non-delinquents, the group of those 
serving preventive detention is characterised by medium to advanced age, 
antisociality, psychopathy, substance abuse or addiction, aggressivity, a strong 
criminal record, years of imprisonment, insufficient educational and vocational 
training and a high risk of recidivism. In our examination of persons serving 
preventive detention, we demonstrate that this clientele is a group of 
recidivists difficult to treat. The current laws and a lack of early 
intervention programs have prevented and delayed their timely and possibly 
successful treatment. From a psychiatric point of view, there is a strong need 
for new therapeutic concepts to meet this challenge.

DOI: 10.1007/s00115-011-3434-0
PMID: 22215222 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13. Addict Biol. 2013 Mar;18(2):203-13. doi: 10.1111/j.1369-1600.2011.00418.x. Epub 
2012 Jan 20.

Widespread and sustained cognitive deficits in alcoholism: a meta-analysis.

Stavro K(1), Pelletier J, Potvin S.

Author information:
(1)Centre de Recherche Fernand-Seguin, Department of Psychiatry, Faculty of 
Medicine, University of Montreal, Canada.

The cognitive repercussions of alcohol dependence are well documented. However, 
the literature remains somewhat ambiguous with respect to which distinct 
cognitive functions are more susceptible to impairment in alcoholism and to how 
duration of abstinence affects cognitive recovery. Some theories claim alcohol 
negatively affects specific cognitive functions, while others assert that 
deficits are more diffuse in nature. This is the first meta-analysis to examine 
cognition in alcohol abuse/dependence and the duration of abstinence necessary 
to achieve cognitive recovery. A literature search yielded 62 studies that 
assessed cognitive dysfunction among alcoholics. Effect size estimates were 
calculated using the Comprehensive Meta-Analysis V2, for the following 12 
cognitive domains: intelligence quotient, verbal fluency/language, speed of 
processing, working memory, attention, problem solving/executive functions, 
inhibition/impulsivity, verbal learning, verbal memory, visual learning, visual 
memory and visuospatial abilities. Within these 12 domains, three effect size 
estimates were calculated based on abstinence duration. The three groups were 
partitioned into short- (< 1 month), intermediate- (2 to 12 months) and long- (> 
1 year) term abstinence. Findings revealed moderate impairment across 11 
cognitive domains during short-term abstinence, with moderate impairment across 
10 domains during intermediate term abstinence. Small effect size estimates were 
found for long-term abstinence. These results suggest significant impairment 
across multiple cognitive functions remains stable during the first year of 
abstinence from alcohol. Generally, dysfunction abates by 1 year of sobriety. 
These findings support the diffuse brain hypothesis and suggest that cognitive 
dysfunction may linger for up to an average of 1 year post-detoxification from 
alcohol.

© 2012 The Authors, Addiction Biology © 2012 Society for the Study of Addiction.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1369-1600.2011.00418.x
PMID: 22264351 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. Schizophr Bull. 2013 May;39(3):703-11. doi: 10.1093/schbul/sbr190. Epub 2012 Jan 
20.

Cumulative genetic risk and prefrontal activity in patients with schizophrenia.

Walton E(1), Turner J, Gollub RL, Manoach DS, Yendiki A, Ho BC, Sponheim SR, 
Calhoun VD, Ehrlich S.

Author information:
(1)MGH/MIT/HMS Martinos Center for Biomedical Imaging, Massachusetts General 
Hospital, Charlestown, MA, USA.

The lack of consistency of genetic associations in highly heritable mental 
illnesses, such as schizophrenia, remains a challenge in molecular psychiatry. 
Because clinical phenotypes for psychiatric disorders are often ill defined, 
considerable effort has been made to relate genetic polymorphisms to underlying 
physiological aspects of schizophrenia (so called intermediate phenotypes), that 
may be more reliable. Given the polygenic etiology of schizophrenia, the aim of 
this work was to form a measure of cumulative genetic risk and study its effect 
on neural activity during working memory (WM) using functional magnetic 
resonance imaging. Neural activity during the Sternberg Item Recognition 
Paradigm was measured in 79 schizophrenia patients and 99 healthy controls. 
Participants were genotyped, and a genetic risk score (GRS), which combined the 
additive effects of 41 single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) from 34 risk genes 
for schizophrenia, was calculated. These risk SNPs were chosen according to the 
continuously updated meta-analysis of genetic studies on schizophrenia available 
at www.schizophreniaresearchforum.org. We found a positive relationship between 
GRS and left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex inefficiency during WM processing. 
GRS was not correlated with age, performance, intelligence, or medication 
effects and did not differ between acquisition sites, gender, or diagnostic 
groups. Our study suggests that cumulative genetic risk, combining the impact of 
many genes with small effects, is associated with a known brain-based 
intermediate phenotype for schizophrenia. The GRS approach could provide an 
advantage over studying single genes in studies focusing on the genetic basis of 
polygenic conditions such as neuropsychiatric disorders.

DOI: 10.1093/schbul/sbr190
PMCID: PMC3627773
PMID: 22267534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. J Atten Disord. 2013 May;17(4):291-301. doi: 10.1177/1087054711428806. Epub 2012 
Jan 27.

WISC-IV profiles are associated with differences in symptomatology and outcome 
in children with ADHD.

Thaler NS(1), Bello DT, Etcoff LM.

Author information:
(1)University of Nevada, Las Vegas, NV 89154-5030, USA. nick.thaler@gmail.com

OBJECTIVE: The current study investigated the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for 
Children-Fourth Edition (WISC-IV) cluster profiles of children with ADHD to 
examine the association between IQ profiles and diagnostic frequency, 
symptomatology, and outcome in this population.
METHOD: Hierarchical cluster analysis was conducted on 189 children with a 
diagnosis of ADHD-inattentive (ADHD-I) and ADHD-combined (ADHD-C) subtypes. 
Clusters were then compared across symptom rating scale factor scores, 
behavioral rating scales, and achievement scores.
RESULTS: A five-cluster solution was extracted. One cluster was identified to 
have reduced processing speed relative to other WISC-IV indexes and 
significantly higher ratings of inattention and incidence of ADHD-I diagnosis. A 
second cluster had impairments in processing speed and working memory and was 
associated with impaired behavioral functioning.
CONCLUSION: Findings support a relationship between reduced processing speed and 
inattention and provide evidence that WISC-IV profiles may be helpful in 
predicting symptomatology and outcome in children with ADHD.

DOI: 10.1177/1087054711428806
PMID: 22286109 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. Laryngorhinootologie. 2013 Sep;92(9):594-9. doi: 10.1055/s-0031-1299758. Epub 
2012 Feb 6.

[CAPD in 2nd-graders of primary schools: which tests discriminate normal from 
impaired children?].

[Article in German]

Nickisch A(1), Gohde K, Kiese-Himmel C.

Author information:
(1)Kbo-Kinderzentrum München, Hören-Sprache-Cochleaimplantate, Germany. 
a.nickisch@kinderzentrummuenchen.de

BACKGROUND: Third- and fourth-graders with (C)APD can be differentiated from 
non-(C)APD children at best by means of 3 diagnostic tests (Nickisch & 
Kiese-Himmel, 2009). Now it should be examined which tests discriminate second 
graders with (C)APD from those without. MATERIAL UND METHODS: 10 audiological 
and psychometrical tests were used for this purpose.
PATIENTS: 33 second-graders of primary schools diagnosed with auditory-specific 
perceptual deficits (clinical group (C)APD: average age: 7.8; SD 0.7 years) were 
compared to 48 normally developed children of the same school grade (control 
group Non-(C)APD: average age: 7.6; SD 0.5 years).
RESULTS: With the exception of 3 non-language based tests significant 
group-differentiations appeared, with the (C)APD-children displaying worse 
results. The diagnostic classification succeeded in the following 
test-combination: Word-Understanding in Background Noise (Goettinger 
Sprachaudiometrie im Freifeld), Dichotic Listening (Uttenweiler Test), Numerical 
Sequence Memory (Subtest of the German version of the Illinois Test of 
Psycholinguistic Abilities), Nonword Repetition (Mottier-Test). 97.5% of all 
children were assigned to the correct diagnostic group (96.3% after 
cross-validation).
CONCLUSION: After the exclusion of neurological disorders, peripheral 
hearing-disorders as well as intelligence-impairments the diagnostic assurance 
of (C)APD of second-graders succeeded, permitting very small probability of 
error. Compared to the preliminary study, an additional diagnostic test on 
second-graders is necessary; classification, as a result, will be more precise.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0031-1299758
PMID: 22311198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. J Atten Disord. 2013 Aug;17(6):470-82. doi: 10.1177/1087054711429702. Epub 2012 
Feb 8.

Working memory and response inhibition as one integral phenotype of adult ADHD? 
A behavioral and imaging correlational investigation.

Schecklmann M(1), Ehlis AC, Plichta MM, Dresler T, Heine M, Boreatti-Hümmer A, 
Romanos M, Jacob C, Pauli P, Fallgatter AJ.

Author information:
(1)University Regensburg, Germany. martin.schecklmann@medbo.de

OBJECTIVE: It is an open question whether working memory (WM) and response 
inhibition (RI) constitute one integral phenotype in attention deficit 
hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).
METHOD: The authors investigated 45 adult ADHD patients and 41 controls 
comparable for age, gender, intelligence, and education during a letter n-back 
and a stop-signal task, and measured prefrontal oxygenation by means of 
functional near-infrared spectroscopy.
RESULTS: The authors replicated behavioral and cortical activation deficits in 
patients compared with controls for both tasks and also for performance in both 
control conditions. In the patient group, 2-back performance was correlated with 
stop-signal reaction time. This correlation did not seem to be specific for WM 
and RI as 1-back performance was correlated with go reaction time. No 
significant correlations of prefrontal oxygenation between WM and RI were found.
CONCLUSION: The authors' findings do not support the hypothesis of WM and RI 
representing one integral phenotype of ADHD mediated by the prefrontal cortex.

DOI: 10.1177/1087054711429702
PMID: 22323120 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. Int J Psychiatry Clin Pract. 2013 Feb;17(1):10-5. doi: 
10.3109/13651501.2011.653380. Epub 2012 Feb 15.

Comparison of pervasive developmental disorder and schizophrenia by the Japanese 
version of the National Adult Reading Test.

Ota T(1), Iida J, Sawada M, Suehiro Y, Kishimoto N, Tanaka S, Nagauchi K, 
Nakanishi Y, Yamamuro K, Negoro H, Iwasaka H, Sadamatsu M, Kishimoto T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Nara Medical University School of Medicine, Nara, 
Japan. toyosaku@naramed-u.ac.jp

OBJECTIVE: In adults, it is sometimes difficult to discriminate between 
pervasive developmental disorder (PDD) and schizophrenia (SCH) when positive 
symptoms are not outstanding. We examined whether the Japanese version of the 
National Adult Reading Test (JART), is a valid scale for evaluating pre-morbid 
intelligence quotient (IQ) in patients with SCH, and the Wechsler Adult 
Intelligence Scale-Revised (WAIS-R) are useful for helping to discriminate 
between PDD and SCH.
METHODS: Sixteen patients with adult PDD and 16 age-, education- and sex-matched 
patients with SCH participated in the present study. In addition, two groups 
were matched for JART and GAF scores. All subjects were scored on the JART and 
WAIS-R after informed consent on the aim of this study. Examiners who were blind 
to the diagnoses measured JART and WAIS-R.
RESULTS: Significant diagnosis-by-IQ examination interactions were found 
(F[1,30] = 10.049, P = 0.003). Furthermore, WAIS-R scores of the PDD group were 
higher than those of the SCH group (P = 0.002) considering two groups were 
matched for JART.
CONCLUSIONS: The comparison of IQ in the PDD group and in the SCH group by JART 
and WAIS-R might be an easy and useful method for helping to discriminate 
between PDD and SCH.

DOI: 10.3109/13651501.2011.653380
PMID: 22335467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. Nurse Educ Today. 2013 Feb;33(2):116-22. doi: 10.1016/j.nedt.2012.01.007. Epub 
2012 Feb 14.

Work readiness of graduate health professionals.

Walker A(1), Yong M, Pang L, Fullarton C, Costa B, Dunning AM.

Author information:
(1)School of Psychology, Deakin University, Victoria, Australia. 
arlene.walker@deakin.edu.au

BACKGROUND AND AIM: The current exploratory study investigated work readiness 
among graduate health professionals.
DESIGN AND PARTICIPANTS: A critical incident technique was used to elicit 
perceptions regarding: strategies and skills that constitute work readiness 
among health professionals and the work readiness factors that help or hinder 
health graduates' transition and integration into the workplace. Fifteen medical 
graduates, 26 nursing graduates and five organisational representatives from a 
regional hospital in Victoria, Australia participated.
METHOD: Data were collected via qualitative interviews.
RESULTS: Participants discussed a total of 92 critical incidents; 52 related to 
helping and 40 to hindering work readiness factors that impacted graduates' 
transition and integration experiences. A follow-up thematic analysis 
indentified four critical work readiness factors: social intelligence, 
organisational acumen, work competence and personal characteristics. While 
graduates and organisational representatives considered each factor important, 
some differences between the groups emerged. Organisational representative's 
perceived social intelligence and clinical skills critical graduate 
competencies, yet graduates were unprepared in these areas.
CONCLUSION: The identified work readiness factors were consistent with past 
research and warrant further investigation of work readiness among a larger 
group of graduate health professionals in a range of contexts.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nedt.2012.01.007
PMID: 22336479 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. J Atten Disord. 2013 Aug;17(6):483-8. doi: 10.1177/1087054711434155. Epub 2012 
Feb 17.

Cognitive deficits in adults with ADHD go beyond comorbidity effects.

Silva KL(1), Guimarães-da-Silva PO, Grevet EH, Victor MM, Salgado CA, Vitola ES, 
Mota NR, Fischer AG, Contini V, Picon FA, Karam RG, Belmonte-de-Abreu P, Rohde 
LA, Bau CH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul, Porto 
Alegre, Brazil.

OBJECTIVE: This study addresses if deficits in cognitive, attention, and 
inhibitory control performance in adults with ADHD are better explained by the 
disorder itself or by comorbid conditions.
METHOD: Adult patients with ADHD (n = 352) and controls (n = 94) were evaluated 
in the ADHD program of a tertiary hospital. The diagnostic process for ADHD and 
comorbidities was based on Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders 
(4th ed.; DSM-IV) criteria. Stepwise regression analyses evaluated the effect of 
ADHD, demographics, and comorbidities on the scores from Wechsler Adult 
Intelligence Scale-Revised, Continuous Performance Test, and Stroop Color and 
Word Test.
RESULTS: Patients with ADHD of both genders had worse performance on 
neuropsychological domains, even after adjustment for comorbidities. The 
presence of comorbid bipolar disorder and specific phobia are associated with 
more Stroop errors, whereas patients with generalized anxiety disorder present a 
longer execution time in Stroop.
CONCLUSION: Neuropsychological deficits in adults with ADHD go beyond 
comorbidity. Specific comorbid disorders may influence the neuropsychological 
functioning in adults with ADHD.

DOI: 10.1177/1087054711434155
PMID: 22344317 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. Hum Brain Mapp. 2013 Jun;34(6):1490-9. doi: 10.1002/hbm.22000. Epub 2012 Feb 17.

Ventral striatal prediction error signaling is associated with dopamine 
synthesis capacity and fluid intelligence.

Schlagenhauf F(1), Rapp MA, Huys QJ, Beck A, Wüstenberg T, Deserno L, Buchholz 
HG, Kalbitzer J, Buchert R, Bauer M, Kienast T, Cumming P, Plotkin M, Kumakura 
Y, Grace AA, Dolan RJ, Heinz A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, Campus Charité Mitte, 
Charité-Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Germany.

Fluid intelligence represents the capacity for flexible problem solving and 
rapid behavioral adaptation. Rewards drive flexible behavioral adaptation, in 
part via a teaching signal expressed as reward prediction errors in the ventral 
striatum, which has been associated with phasic dopamine release in animal 
studies. We examined a sample of 28 healthy male adults using multimodal imaging 
and biological parametric mapping with (1) functional magnetic resonance imaging 
during a reversal learning task and (2) in a subsample of 17 subjects also with 
positron emission tomography using 6-[(18) F]fluoro-L-DOPA to assess dopamine 
synthesis capacity. Fluid intelligence was measured using a battery of nine 
standard neuropsychological tests. Ventral striatal BOLD correlates of reward 
prediction errors were positively correlated with fluid intelligence and, in the 
right ventral striatum, also inversely correlated with dopamine synthesis 
capacity (FDOPA K inapp). When exploring aspects of fluid intelligence, we 
observed that prediction error signaling correlates with complex attention and 
reasoning. These findings indicate that individual differences in the capacity 
for flexible problem solving relate to ventral striatal activation during 
reward-related learning, which in turn proved to be inversely associated with 
ventral striatal dopamine synthesis capacity.

Copyright © 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/hbm.22000
PMCID: PMC3731774
PMID: 22344813 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. Neuropsychol Dev Cogn B Aging Neuropsychol Cogn. 2013;20(1):22-33. doi: 
10.1080/13825585.2012.656576. Epub 2012 Feb 22.

Performances on five verbal fluency tests in a healthy, elderly Danish sample.

Stokholm J(1), Jørgensen K, Vogel A.

Author information:
(1)Memory Disorders Research Group, Department of Neurology, Neuroscience 
Centre, Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen University Hospital, Copenhagen, Denmark. 
jette.stokholm@rh.regionh.dk

Verbal fluency tests are widely used as measures of language and executive 
functions. This study presents data for five tests; semantic fluency (animals, 
supermarket items and alternating between cities and professions), lexical 
fluency (s-words), and action fluency (verbs) based on a sample of 100 
cognitively intact elderly Danish subjects aged 60-87 years. We found mean 
scores similar to what has been reported from other countries. There was little 
influence of background variables: in four out of fives tests less than 20% of 
the variance could be explained by age, education, and estimated intelligence. 
Age had a greater impact than education on category based performance, while the 
opposite was the case for lexical- and action-based fluency. Overall, 
intelligence was of little importance. There was a positive and significant 
correlation between all tests, but with only low to moderate strength of 
association, indicating that various fluency tasks draw on different cognitive 
abilities and are not interchangeable.

DOI: 10.1080/13825585.2012.656576
PMID: 22352781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. Cereb Cortex. 2013 Mar;23(3):552-9. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhs035. Epub 2012 Feb 
24.

A gene-brain-cognition pathway: prefrontal activity mediates the effect of COMT 
on cognitive control and IQ.

Green AE(1), Kraemer DJ, Deyoung CG, Fossella JA, Gray JR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Georgetown University, Washington, DC 20057, USA. 
aeg58@georgetown.edu

A core thesis of cognitive neurogenetic research is that genetic effects on 
cognitive ability are mediated by specific neural functions, however, 
demonstrating neural mediation has proved elusive. Pairwise relationships 
between genetic variation and brain function have yielded heterogeneous findings 
to date. This heterogeneity indicates that a multiple mediator modeling approach 
may be useful to account for complex relationships involving function at 
multiple brain regions. This is relevant not only for characterizing healthy 
cognition but for modeling the complex neural pathways by which disease-related 
genetic effects are transmitted to disordered cognitive phenotypes in 
psychiatric illness. Here, in 160 genotyped functional magnetic resonance 
imaging participants, we used a multiple mediator model to test a 
gene-brain-cognition pathway by which activity in 4 prefrontal brain regions 
mediates the effects of catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) gene on cognitive 
control and IQ. Results provide evidence for gene-brain-cognition mediation and 
help delineate a pathway by which gene expression contributes to intelligence.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhs035
PMID: 22368081 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. Clin Psychol Psychother. 2013 Sep-Oct;20(5):424-33. doi: 10.1002/cpp.1787. Epub 
2012 Feb 28.

Attachment and socio-emotional skills: a comparison of depressed inpatients, 
institutionalized delinquents and control adolescents.

Delhaye M(1), Kempenaers C, Stroobants R, Goossens L, Linkowski P.

Author information:
(1)Hôpital Érasme, Université Libre de Bruxelles, Bruxelles, Belgium.

This study compared 50 depressed inpatients, 51 institutionalized delinquents 
and 51 control adolescents (total n = 152) regarding attachment and associated 
socio-emotional skills. All of the participants took an individual interview 
(i.e., anamnesis, diagnostic interview and intelligence test) and completed the 
attachment measure and self-report measures of socio-emotional skills (i.e., 
emotional intelligence, empathy and resilience). Results showed that controls 
scored higher on secure attachment, whereas both of the other groups scored 
higher on preoccupied attachment. Depressed adolescents had lower scores on 
emotional intelligence than did controls. Finally, depressed adolescents had 
lower scores than the other two groups on resilience. The anxious or preoccupied 
attachment in both clinical groups, the overall frailty of depressive 
adolescents and the apparent resilience of delinquent adolescents despite their 
cognitive limitations should inform the respective treatment plans for these 
groups of adolescents. Suggestions for future research into differences between 
depressed and delinquent adolescents are outlined.
KEY PRACTITIONER MESSAGE: Both depressed and delinquent adolescents show more 
anxious attachment. Depressed adolescents are less resilient than delinquent 
adolescents. Delinquent adolescents are less intelligent than the other two 
groups but well-adjusted overall. These differences should inform treatment 
plans for these two clinical groups.

Copyright © 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/cpp.1787
PMID: 22371339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. Child Care Health Dev. 2013 Jul;39(4):581-91. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2214.2012.01369.x. Epub 2012 Feb 28.

Quality of life in newly diagnosed children with specific learning disabilities 
(SpLD) and differences from typically developing children: a study of child and 
parent reports.

Ginieri-Coccossis M(1), Rotsika V, Skevington S, Papaevangelou S, Malliori M, 
Tomaras V, Kokkevi A.

Author information:
(1)1st Department of Psychiatry, Medical School, University of Athens, Athens, 
Greece.

INTRODUCTION: Research on quality of life (QoL) of school children with specific 
learning disabilities (SpLD) and their parents is scarce. The present study 
explores QoL deficits in newly diagnosed children with SpLD and their parents, 
in comparison to a similar age group of typically developing children. Possible 
associations between parental and child QoL were statistically explored in both 
groups of children.
METHODS: 70 newly diagnosed children with SpLD [International Classification of 
Diseases-10 (ICD-10) criteria] (38 boys, 32 girls, mean age 10.1 years) and a 
control group of 69 typically developing children of the same age (40 boys, 29 
girls, mean age 10.6 years) were recruited. Children were of normal intelligence 
quotient, attending mainstream schools. Their parents were also recruited so a 
child's scores could be associated with corresponding parental scores (mother or 
father). Children's QoL was assessed by the German questionnaire for measuring 
quality of life in children and adolescents (KINDL(R) ) questionnaire and 
parental QoL by World Health Organization Quality of Life brief questionnaire 
(WHOQOL-BREF) of the World Health Organization.
RESULTS: Children with SpLD in comparison to typically developing children 
reported according to the KINDL(R) measurement poorer emotional well-being, 
lower self-esteem and satisfaction in their relationships with family and 
friends. Surprisingly, school functioning was not reported by these children as 
an area of concern. Parents of children with SpLD indicated experiencing lower 
satisfaction in the WHOQOL-BREF domains of social relationships and environment. 
Correlational and regression analysis with parental-child QoL scores provided 
evidence that in the SpLD group, parental scores on WHOQOL-BREF social 
relationships and psychological health domains could be predictors of the 
child's emotional well-being, satisfaction with family, friends and school 
functioning. Stepwise regression analysis verified the effect of parents' 
WHOQOL-BREF social relationships domain on several dimensions of children's 
KINDL(R) QoL.
CONCLUSIONS:   The results may suggest certain significant effects of the SpLD 
condition on newly diagnosed children's QoL. Emotional and social deficits seem 
to be experienced by this cohort of children and their parents. Investigation 
into the possible interrelationships between parental and child QoL seems to 
indicate that parental social wellbeing may to a certain extend influence some 
dimensions of the child's QoL. The findings are useful for policy making and 
specialized interventions for children with SpLD and their families.

© 2012 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2214.2012.01369.x
PMID: 22372869 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. J Psychiatr Ment Health Nurs. 2013 Mar;20(2):97-104. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2850.2012.01892.x. Epub 2012 Mar 7.

Perceptual shifts of priority: a qualitative study bringing emotional 
intelligence to the foreground for nurses in talk-based therapy roles.

Hurley J(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Human Sciences, Southern Cross University, Coffs 
Harbour, NSW, Australia. john.hurley@scu.edu.au

This paper presents the findings of a qualitative study conceptually framed by 
social constructionism that explored the experiences of mental health nurses 
engaging in talk-based therapy roles. Constructions from the participants' 
narratives are shown to have a powerful resonance with the construct of 
emotional intelligence, a resonance also echoed from the literature, and 
policies from the UK identified within the paper. Forwarded is that rather than 
prioritizing the development of technical approaches of specific therapies, 
nurses should equally be prepared for talk-based therapy roles through 
developing their emotionally intelligence capabilities.

© 2012 Blackwell Publishing.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2850.2012.01892.x
PMID: 22404243 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Schizophr Bull. 2013 May;39(3):608-16. doi: 10.1093/schbul/sbs039. Epub 2012 Mar 
13.

Effects of social cognitive impairment on speech disorder in schizophrenia.

Docherty NM(1), McCleery A, Divilbiss M, Schumann EB, Moe A, Shakeel MK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Kent State University, Kent, OH 44242, USA. 
ndochert@kent.edu

Disordered speech in schizophrenia impairs social functioning because it impedes 
communication with others. Treatment approaches targeting this symptom have been 
limited by an incomplete understanding of its causes. This study examined the 
process underpinnings of speech disorder, assessed in terms of communication 
failure. Contributions of impairments in 2 social cognitive abilities, emotion 
perception and theory of mind (ToM), to speech disorder were assessed in 63 
patients with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder and 21 nonpsychiatric 
participants, after controlling for the effects of verbal intelligence and 
impairments in basic language-related neurocognitive abilities. After removal of 
the effects of the neurocognitive variables, impairments in emotion perception 
and ToM each explained additional variance in speech disorder in the patients 
but not the controls. The neurocognitive and social cognitive variables, taken 
together, explained 51% of the variance in speech disorder in the patients. 
Schizophrenic disordered speech may be less a concomitant of "positive" 
psychotic process than of illness-related limitations in neurocognitive and 
social cognitive functioning.

DOI: 10.1093/schbul/sbs039
PMCID: PMC3627757
PMID: 22416265 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. J Pediatr Orthop B. 2013 Jan;22(1):70-5. doi: 10.1097/BPB.0b013e3283524c52.

Congenital insensitivity to pain with anhidrosis: a case report of a 33-year-old 
patient.

Kosmidis I(1), Krallis P, Tsiamasfirou D, Filiopoulos K.

Author information:
(1)Orthopaedic Department, Pendeli's Children Hospital, Athens, Greece. 
a.i.kosm@gmail.com

Congenital insensitivity to pain with anhidrosis is a type IV hereditary sensory 
and autonomic neuropathy, presenting early in life. This disorder results from 
defective neural crest differentiation with loss of the first-order afferent 
system, which is responsible for sensations of pain and temperature; a neuronal 
loss in the sympathetic ganglia is also present. A case of a 33-year-old patient 
with congenital insensitivity to pain with anhidrosis is presented. From the 
time of birth, he did not sweat and did not respond to painful stimuli, although 
unexplained bouts of fever were often observed in infancy; an extensive workup 
during childhood helped establish the diagnosis. Throughout childhood and 
adulthood, the patient presented multiple infections and fractures in various 
sites of his body, growth disturbances, and avascular necrosis, and Charcot 
arthropathies and joint dislocations mainly affected his elbow and hip joint. At 
the final follow-up, at the age of 33 years, he was found to be obese, with a 
limited social life. A Charcot elbow restricted the activity of his left upper 
limb, and the dislocated hips combined with the instability of the ankle joints 
limited the ambulation distance. A specific treatment protocol has not been 
established in the literature; the main principles that can be applied in 
patients with normal intelligence include training programs to prevent 
self-mutilation and accidental injuries and an early diagnosis and treatment of 
the infections.

DOI: 10.1097/BPB.0b013e3283524c52
PMID: 22422007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. J Atten Disord. 2013 Nov;17(8):681-9. doi: 10.1177/1087054711435411. Epub 2012 
Mar 21.

Sluggish cognitive tempo among young adolescents with ADHD: relations to mental 
health, academic, and social functioning.

Becker SP(1), Langberg JM.

Author information:
(1)1Miami University, Oxford, OH, USA.

OBJECTIVE: This study investigated the role of sluggish cognitive tempo (SCT) in 
relation to externalizing and internalizing mental health problems, academic 
functioning, and social functioning among young adolescents with 
attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).
METHOD: In all, 57 youth ages 10 to 14 participated in the study. Parents rated 
SCT, internalizing, and externalizing symptoms, as well as social and academic 
impairment. Teachers rated academic and peer impairment, and intelligence and 
academic achievement also were assessed.
RESULTS: Above and beyond ADHD and conduct problem symptoms, SCT was associated 
with internalizing mental health symptoms and social problems. The association 
between SCT and externalizing problems or academic functioning was not 
significant when accounting for ADHD symptomatology and intelligence.
CONCLUSION: SCT is consistently associated with internalizing symptoms and is 
also associated with young adolescents' general social difficulties. When 
controlling for important related constructs, SCT is not associated with 
externalizing symptoms or academic impairment among young adolescents with ADHD.

DOI: 10.1177/1087054711435411
PMID: 22441891 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Mol Psychiatry. 2013 Feb;18(2):190-4. doi: 10.1038/mp.2012.26. Epub 2012 Apr 3.

Is bipolar disorder more common in highly intelligent people? A cohort study of 
a million men.

Gale CR(1), Batty GD, McIntosh AM, Porteous DJ, Deary IJ, Rasmussen F.

Author information:
(1)MRC Lifecourse Epidemiology Unit, Southampton General Hospital, University of 
Southampton, Southampton, UK. g@mrc.soton.ac.uk

Anecdotal and biographical reports have long suggested that bipolar disorder is 
more common in people with exceptional cognitive or creative ability. 
Epidemiological evidence for such a link is sparse. We investigated the 
relationship between intelligence and subsequent risk of hospitalisation for 
bipolar disorder in a prospective cohort study of 1,049,607 Swedish men. 
Intelligence was measured on conscription for military service at a mean age of 
18.3 years and data on psychiatric hospital admissions over a mean follow-up 
period of 22.6 years was obtained from national records. Risk of hospitalisation 
with any form of bipolar disorder fell in a stepwise manner as intelligence 
increased (P for linear trend <0.0001). However, when we restricted analyses to 
men with no psychiatric comorbidity, there was a 'reversed-J' shaped 
association: men with the lowest intelligence had the greatest risk of being 
admitted with pure bipolar disorder, but risk was also elevated among men with 
the highest intelligence (P for quadratic trend=0.03), primarily in those with 
the highest verbal (P for quadratic trend=0.009) or technical ability (P for 
quadratic trend <0.0001). At least in men, high intelligence may indeed be a 
risk factor for bipolar disorder, but only in the minority of cases who have the 
disorder in a pure form with no psychiatric comorbidity.

DOI: 10.1038/mp.2012.26
PMCID: PMC3705611
PMID: 22472877 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. Int J Obes (Lond). 2013 Jan;37(1):40-6. doi: 10.1038/ijo.2012.47. Epub 2012 Apr 
24.

Just as smart but not as successful: obese students obtain lower school grades 
but equivalent test scores to nonobese students.

MacCann C(1), Roberts RD.

Author information:
(1)School of Psychology, University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, 
Australia. carolyn.maccann@sydney.edu.au

OBJECTIVE: The obesity epidemic in industrialized nations has important 
implications for education, as research demonstrates lower academic achievement 
among obese students. The current paper compares the test scores and school 
grades of obese, overweight and normal-weight students in secondary and further 
education, controlling for demographic variables, personality, ability and 
well-being confounds.
PARTICIPANTS: This study included 383 eighth-grade students (49% female; study 
1) and 1036 students from 24 community colleges and universities (64% female, 
study 2), both drawn from five regions across the United States.
MEASURES: In study 1, body mass index (BMI) was calculated using self-reports 
and parent reports of weight and height. In study 2, BMI was calculated from 
self-reported weight and height only. Both samples completed age-appropriate 
assessments of mathematics, vocabulary and the personality trait 
conscientiousness. Eighth-grade students additionally completed a measure of 
life satisfaction, with both self-reports and parent reports of their grades 
from the previous semester also obtained. Higher education students additionally 
completed measures of positive and negative affect, and self-reported their 
grades and college entrance scores.
RESULTS: Obese students receive significantly lower grades in middle school 
(d=0.83), community college (d=0.34) and university (d=0.36), but show no 
statistically significant differences in intelligence or achievement test 
scores. Even after controlling for demographic variables, intelligence, 
personality and well-being, obese students obtain significantly lower grades 
than normal-weight students in the eighth grade (d=0.39), community college 
(d=0.42) and university (d=0.31).
CONCLUSION: Lower grades may reflect peer and teacher prejudice against 
overweight and obese students rather than lack of ability among these students.

DOI: 10.1038/ijo.2012.47
PMID: 22531092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. HNO. 2013 Feb;61(2):136-41. doi: 10.1007/s00106-012-2504-3.

[Nonorganic (functional) hearing loss in children].

[Article in German]

Schmidt CM(1), Am Zehnhoff-Dinnesen A, Deuster D.

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik für Phoniatrie und Pädaudiologie, Münster, Deutschland. 
michael.schmidt@uni-muenster.de

Nonorganic (functional) hearing loss in children is characterized by hearing 
loss without a detectable corresponding pathology in the auditory system. It is 
not an uncommon disease in childhood. Typically, there is a discrepancy between 
elevated pure tone thresholds and normal speech discrimination in everyday life. 
We evaluated 85 original publications, 27 reviews and 4 textbook articles. Mean 
age at diagnosis was 11.3 years. Girls were affected twice as often as boys. 
Patient histories showed a high prevalence of emotional and school problems. 
Pre-existing organic hearing loss can be worsened by nonorganic causes. A 
brainstem audiometry should confirm the diagnosis. The differential diagnosis 
includes auditory processing disorder, elevated thresholds in mental retardation 
and auditory neuropathy. We recommend taking a personal history including 
biographical factors, a psychological assessment including intelligence testing 
and referral to a child psychiatrist. Prognosis seems to be dependent on the 
severity of the patient's school and/or personal problems. Categorization 
following the Austen-Lynch model can be a valuable prognostic factor.

DOI: 10.1007/s00106-012-2504-3
PMID: 22534679 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Eur Psychiatry. 2013 May;28(4):219-24. doi: 10.1016/j.eurpsy.2012.01.005. Epub 
2012 Apr 26.

Influence of maternal and paternal IQ on offspring health and health behaviours: 
evidence for some trans-generational associations using the 1958 British birth 
cohort study.

Whitley E(1), Gale CR, Deary IJ, Kivimaki M, Singh-Manoux A, Batty GD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, University College London, 
1-19, Torrington Place, London WC1E 6BT, UK.

PURPOSE: Individuals scoring poorly on tests of intelligence (IQ) have been 
reported as having increased risk of morbidity, premature mortality, and risk 
factors such as obesity, high blood pressure, poor diet, alcohol and cigarette 
consumption. Very little is known about the impact of parental IQ on the health 
and health behaviours of their offspring.
METHODS: We explored associations of maternal and paternal IQ scores with 
offspring television viewing, injuries, hospitalisations, long standing illness, 
height and BMI at ages 4 to 18 using data from the National Child Development 
Study (1958 birth cohort).
RESULTS: Data were available for 1446 mother-offspring and 822 father-offspring 
pairs. After adjusting for potential confounding/mediating factors, the children 
of higher IQ parents were less likely to watch TV (odds ratio (95% confidence 
interval) for watching 3+ vs. less than 3hours per week associated with a 
standard deviation increase in maternal or paternal IQ: 0.75 (0.64, 0.88) or 
0.78 (0.64, 0.95) respectively) and less likely to have one or more injuries 
requiring hospitalisation (0.77 (0.66, 0.90) or 0.72 (0.56, 0.91) respectively 
for maternal or paternal IQ).
CONCLUSIONS: Children whose parents have low IQ scores may have poorer selected 
health and health behaviours. Health education might usefully be targeted at 
these families.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eurpsy.2012.01.005
PMCID: PMC3696866
PMID: 22541368 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. J Autism Dev Disord. 2013 Jan;43(1):80-90. doi: 10.1007/s10803-012-1545-5.

The role of timing in testing nonverbal IQ in children with ASD.

McGonigle-Chalmers M(1), McSweeney M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Edinburgh, 7 George Square, 
Edinburgh, Scotland, UK. Maggie.McGonigle@ed.ac.uk

15 School-aged high functioning children on the autistic spectrum were compared 
with a neurotypical cohort on the WISC-III and the KABC-II, to determine the 
impact of the relatively more strict timing criteria of the former test on the 
evaluation of nonverbal intelligence. Significant group effects, showing lower 
performance by the ASD group were found for three of the five sub-tests for the 
WISC but not for the KABC, peaks and troughs were more evident for the WISC, and 
the evaluation of intellectual level was also markedly lower for ASD children on 
the WISC-III as opposed to the KABC-II. The results are discussed in terms of 
how speed of processing can impact on how children with ASD are 'matched' 
against neurotypical samples.

DOI: 10.1007/s10803-012-1545-5
PMID: 22555367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. Psychol Med. 2013 Jan;43(1):119-31. doi: 10.1017/S0033291712000773. Epub 2012 
May 11.

Neuropsychological performance and family history in children at age 7 who 
develop adult schizophrenia or bipolar psychosis in the New England Family 
Studies.

Seidman LJ(1), Cherkerzian S, Goldstein JM, Agnew-Blais J, Tsuang MT, Buka SL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Harvard Medical School, Massachusetts Mental Health 
Center Division of Public Psychiatry, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, 
Boston, MA, USA. lseidman@bidmc.harvard.edu

BACKGROUND: Persons developing schizophrenia (SCZ) manifest various pre-morbid 
neuropsychological deficits, studied most often by measures of IQ. Far less is 
known about pre-morbid neuropsychological functioning in individuals who later 
develop bipolar psychoses (BP). We evaluated the specificity and impact of 
family history (FH) of psychosis on pre-morbid neuropsychological functioning.
METHOD: We conducted a nested case-control study investigating the associations 
of neuropsychological data collected systematically at age 7 years for 99 adults 
with psychotic diagnoses (including 45 SCZ and 35 BP) and 101 controls, drawn 
from the New England cohort of the Collaborative Perinatal Project (CPP). A 
mixed-model approach evaluated full-scale IQ, four neuropsychological factors 
derived from principal components analysis (PCA), and the profile of 10 
intelligence and achievement tests, controlling for maternal education, race and 
intra-familial correlation. We used a deviant responder approach (<10th 
percentile) to calculate rates of impairment.
RESULTS: There was a significant linear trend, with the SCZ group performing 
worst. The profile of childhood deficits for persons with SCZ did not differ 
significantly from BP. Neuropsychological impairment was identified in 42.2% of 
SCZ, 22.9% of BP and 7% of controls. The presence of psychosis in first-degree 
relatives (FH+) significantly increased the severity of childhood impairment for 
SCZ but not for BP.
CONCLUSIONS: Pre-morbid neuropsychological deficits are found in a substantial 
proportion of children who later develop SCZ, especially in the SCZ FH+ 
subgroup, but less so in BP, suggesting especially impaired neurodevelopment 
underlying cognition in pre-SCZ children. Future work should assess genetic and 
environmental factors that explain this FH effect.

DOI: 10.1017/S0033291712000773
PMCID: PMC3682767
PMID: 22575089 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Statement: The following 
authors do not have any conflicts of interest to declare: Larry J. Seidman, Sara 
Cherkerzian, Jill M. Goldstein, Jessica Agnew-Blais, Ming T. Tsuang, Stephen L. 
Buka.


36. Brain Struct Funct. 2013 May;218(3):721-31. doi: 10.1007/s00429-012-0424-3. Epub 
2012 May 13.

Correlation between corpus callosum shape and cognitive performance in healthy 
young adults.

Martín-Loeches M(1), Bruner E, de la Cuétara JM, Colom R.

Author information:
(1)Center for Human Evolution and Behavior, UCM-ISCIII, Monforte de Lemos, 5, 
Pabellón 14, 28029 Madrid, Spain. mmartinloeches@edu.ucm.es

Corpus callosum (CC) might be related to cognitive performance because of its 
role in interhemispheric communication. Previous research has focused mainly on 
volumetric analyses of the CC, yielding contradictory results to some extent. 
Shape is an approach that integrates and extends the data obtained with the 
volumetric methodology. Here, we analyze the relationships between midsagittal 
CC shape variation and several cognitive measures. 2D coordinates from 102 
MRI-scanned young adult human CCs were superimposed through a Procrustes 
approach. The residual variation was regressed onto 21 cognitive measures 
completed by the participants. Most of these measures (including general 
intelligence, working memory, executive functioning, and mental speed) were 
unrelated to midsagittal CC morphology. However, attentional control did show 
consistent and significant correlations with CC shape variation. Slower 
responses in attentional control were systematically associated with more curved 
and thinner CC, with consequent rotation of the splenium and the genu. Although 
the magnitude of the correlations suggests a small relationship of midsagittal 
CC geometry and attention, the results provide interesting clues regarding the 
links between brain anatomical configuration and human cognitive function.

DOI: 10.1007/s00429-012-0424-3
PMID: 22581173 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. J Gambl Stud. 2013 Jun;29(2):205-16. doi: 10.1007/s10899-012-9308-y.

Professional and pathological gamblers: similarities and differences.

Weinstock J(1), Massura CE, Petry NM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Saint Louis University, St. Louis, MO, USA. 
jweinsto@slu.edu

Although much recent research has focused on the gambling practices and 
psychosocial functioning of pathological gamblers, few investigations have 
examined the characteristics of professional gamblers. The current project 
sought to address this gap in the literature by conducting a quantitative 
comparison of professional and pathological gamblers. Pathological gamblers were 
recruited and balanced with professional gamblers on demographic variables and 
preferred gambling activity. A total of 22 professional gamblers and 13 
pathological gamblers completed an extensive self-report battery including 
instruments assessing demographics, gambling behaviors and problems, other 
psychiatric disorders, current psychosocial functioning, recent stressful 
events, personality characteristics, and intelligence. Pathological and 
professional gamblers reported similar rates of gambling frequency and intensity 
and types of games played. Pathological gamblers endorsed poor psychosocial 
functioning, whereas professional gamblers reported a rate of psychiatric 
distress within a normative range. Pathological gamblers also reported lower 
gambling self-efficacy, greater impulsivity, and more past-year DSM-IV Axis I 
disorders than professional gamblers. The results of the present study shed 
light on the unique circumstances of professional gamblers, as well as 
underscore important differences between such individuals and pathological 
gamblers that could prove fruitful in future research and intervention and 
prevention efforts.

DOI: 10.1007/s10899-012-9308-y
PMID: 22581197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. Eur J Radiol. 2013 Aug;82(8):1171-6. doi: 10.1016/j.ejrad.2012.04.022. Epub 2012 
May 16.

CAD: how it works, how to use it, performance.

Regge D(1), Halligan S.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Cancer Research and Treatment, Candiolo-Torino, Italy. 
daniele.regge@ircc.it

Computer-aided diagnosis (CAD) systems are software algorithms designed to 
assist radiologists (or other practitioners) in solving a diagnostic problem by 
using a visual prompt (or "CAD mark") to direct the observer towards potential 
pathology. CT colonography is a recent arrival to CAD, but could represent one 
of its most fruitful applications in the future. In contrast to other organs, 
where a variety of different pathologies are equally represented, significant 
colorectal pathologies other than polyps and cancer are relatively uncommon. As 
we shall see, this simplifies the diagnostic task for artificial intelligence 
developers and also for radiologists who, ultimately, must make the final 
decision. This review aims to present the current state-of-the-art for CAD 
applied to CT colonography. A brief overview of the technical essentials and of 
the diagnostic performance of CAD in isolation, is followed by an explanation of 
how CAD is used in day-to-day practice. The last section will deal with the most 
controversial issues affecting CAD performance in clinical practice, with a 
focus on the interaction between human and artificial intelligence.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejrad.2012.04.022
PMID: 22595503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Chin J Integr Med. 2013 Mar;19(3):233-40. doi: 10.1007/s11655-012-1089-8. Epub 
2012 May 19.

Wilson's disease: update on integrated Chinese and Western medicine.

Li WJ(1), Wang JF, Wang XP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Shanghai First People's Hospital, Shanghai Jiao-Tong 
University, Shanghai 200080, China.

Wilson's disease (WD), or hepatolenticular degeneration, is an autosomal 
recessive inheritance disorder of copper metabolism caused by ATP7B gene 
mutation. As WD is an inherited disease of the nervous system that is not 
curable; early diagnosis with early and life-long treatment leads to better 
prognoses. Currently, the recommended treatment for WD is integrated Chinese and 
Western medicine. A number of studies indicate that treatment of integrative 
medicine can not only enforce the de-copper effect but also improve liver 
function, intelligence, and other factors. This article reviewed in detail the 
advantages of WD treated with Chinese and Western medicine together.

DOI: 10.1007/s11655-012-1089-8
PMID: 22610954 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. J Exp Psychol Learn Mem Cogn. 2013 Jan;39(1):277-89. doi: 10.1037/a0028467. Epub 
2012 May 21.

Interference within the focus of attention: working memory tasks reflect more 
than temporary maintenance.

Shipstead Z(1), Engle RW.

Author information:
(1)School of Psychology, J. S. Cook Building, Georgia Institute of Technology, 
654 Cherry Street, Atlanta, GA 30332-0170, USA. zshipstead3@gatech.edu

One approach to understanding working memory (WM) holds that individual 
differences in WM capacity arise from the amount of information a person can 
store in WM over short periods of time. This view is especially prevalent in WM 
research conducted with the visual arrays task. Within this tradition, many 
researchers have concluded that the average person can maintain approximately 4 
items in WM. The present study challenges this interpretation by demonstrating 
that performance on the visual arrays task is subject to time-related factors 
that are associated with retrieval from long-term memory. Experiment 1 
demonstrates that memory for an array does not decay as a product of absolute 
time, which is consistent with both maintenance- and retrieval-based 
explanations of visual arrays performance. Experiment 2 introduced a 
manipulation of temporal discriminability by varying the relative spacing of 
trials in time. We found that memory for a target array was significantly 
influenced by its temporal compression with, or isolation from, a preceding 
trial. Subsequent experiments extend these effects to sub-capacity set sizes and 
demonstrate that changes in the size of k are meaningful to prediction of 
performance on other measures of WM capacity as well as general fluid 
intelligence. We conclude that performance on the visual arrays task does not 
reflect a multi-item storage system but instead measures a person's ability to 
accurately retrieve information in the face of proactive interference.

DOI: 10.1037/a0028467
PMID: 22612165 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. Psychol Med. 2013 Jan;43(1):49-60. doi: 10.1017/S0033291712001043. Epub 2012 May 
23.

Cognitive ability in early adulthood is associated with later suicide and 
suicide attempt: the role of risk factors over the life course.

Sörberg A(1), Allebeck P, Melin B, Gunnell D, Hemmingsson T.

Author information:
(1)Division of Occupational and Environmental Medicine, Department of Public 
Health Sciences, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden. alma.sorberg@ki.se

BACKGROUND: Cognitive ability/intelligence quotient (IQ) in youth has previously 
been associated with subsequent completed and attempted suicide, but little is 
known about the mechanisms underlying the associations. This study aims to 
assess the roles of various risk factors over the life course in explaining the 
observed relationships.
METHOD: The present investigation is a cohort study based on data on IQ test 
performance and covariates, recorded on 49 321 Swedish men conscripted in 
1969-1970, at ages 18-20 years. Information on suicides and hospital admissions 
for suicide attempt up to the age of 57 years, childhood and adult 
socio-economic position, and adult family formation, was obtained from linkage 
to national registers.
RESULTS: Lower IQ was associated with increased risks of both suicide and 
suicide attempt during the 36 years of follow-up. The associations followed a 
dose-response pattern. They were attenuated by approximately 45% in models 
controlling for social background, mental ill-health, aspects of personality and 
behavior, adult socio-economic position and family formation. Based on one-unit 
decreases in IQ test performance on a nine-point scale, the hazard ratios 
between ages 35 and 57 years were: for suicide 1.19 [95% confidence interval 
(CI) 1.13-1.25], fully adjusted 1.10 (95% CI 1.04-1.18); and for suicide attempt 
1.25 (95% CI 1.20-1.31), fully adjusted 1.14 (95% CI 1.09-1.20).
CONCLUSIONS: Cognitive ability was found to be associated with subsequent 
completed and attempted suicide. The associations were attenuated by 45% after 
controlling for risk factors measured over the life course. Psychiatric 
diagnosis, maladjustment and aspects of personality in young adulthood, and 
social circumstances in later adulthood, contributed in attenuating the 
associations.

DOI: 10.1017/S0033291712001043
PMID: 22617391 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. Neuropsychologia. 2013 Jun;51(7):1361-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.neuropsychologia.2012.05.017. Epub 2012 May 23.

Dorsolateral prefrontal contributions to human intelligence.

Barbey AK(1), Colom R, Grafman J.

Author information:
(1)Decision Neuroscience Laboratory, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 
Champaign, IL 61820, USA. barbey@illinois.edu

Although cognitive neuroscience has made remarkable progress in understanding 
the involvement of the prefrontal cortex in executive control functions for 
human intelligence, the necessity of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (dlPFC) 
for key competencies of general intelligence and executive function remains to 
be well established. Here we studied human brain lesion patients with dlPFC 
lesions to investigate whether this region is computationally necessary for 
performance on neuropsychological tests of general intelligence and executive 
function, administering the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale (WAIS) and 
subtests of the Delis Kaplan Executive Function System (D-KEFS) to three groups: 
dlPFC lesions (n=19), non-dlPFC lesions (n=152), and no brain lesions (n=55). 
The results indicate that: (1) patients with focal dlPFC damage exhibit lower 
scores, at the latent variable level, than controls in general intelligence (g) 
and executive function; (2) dlPFC patients demonstrate lower scores than 
controls in several executive measures; and (3) these latter differences are no 
longer significant when the pervasive influence of the general factor of 
intelligence (g) is statistically removed. The observed findings support a 
central role for the dlPFC in global aspects of general intelligence and make 
specific recommendations for the interpretation and application of the WAIS and 
D-KEFS to the study of high-level cognition in health and disease.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuropsychologia.2012.05.017
PMCID: PMC3478435
PMID: 22634247 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. J Nephrol. 2013 Jan-Feb;26(1):101-10. doi: 10.5301/jn.5000131.

Association of sleep disturbances with cognitive impairment and depression in 
maintenance hemodialysis patients.

Rodriguez L(1), Tighiouart H, Scott T, Lou K, Giang L, Sorensen E, Weiner DE, 
Sarnak MJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Cayey Campus, The University of Puerto Rico, Cayey, 
USA.

BACKGROUND: There are few data on the relationship of sleep with measures of 
cognitive function and symptoms of depression in dialysis patients.
METHODS: We evaluated the relationship of sleep with cognitive function and 
symptoms of depression in 168 hemodialysis patients, using multivariable linear 
and logistic regression. Sleep disturbances were assessed using the sleep 
subscale battery of the Choices for Healthy Outcomes in Caring for ESRD (CHOICE) 
Health Experience Questionnaire. The cognitive battery assessed a broad range of 
functioning including global ability, verbal intelligence, supraspan learning, 
auditory retention, visual retention, attention/mental processing speed, visual 
construction/fluid reasoning and motor speed. Depressive symptoms were assessed 
using the Center for Epidemiological Studies of Depression (CESD) Scale, with 
depression indicated by a CESD score >16.
RESULTS: Mean (SD) age of participants was 62 (17) years, 49% were women, 30% 
were African American and 33% had diabetes. There was no significant 
relationship between sleep score and performance on any neurocognitive test 
(p>0.13, for all multivariable analyses). The prevalence of depression increased 
from 16% in the highest quartile (best) of sleep score, to 31% in the lowest 
quartile (worst) of sleep score. In multivariable analyses, each 1 SD increase 
in sleep score was associated with a 2.18 (95% confidence interval, 1.07-3.29, 
p<0.001) lower CESD score. Results were consistent when considering individual 
components of both the CESD and sleep score.
CONCLUSIONS: Disturbances in sleep are associated with symptoms of depression 
but not measures of cognitive function. Dialysis patients with disturbances in 
sleep should be screened for depression.

DOI: 10.5301/jn.5000131
PMCID: PMC4447083
PMID: 22641565 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest statement: The authors have 
no conflicts of interest to declare.


44. Cereb Cortex. 2013 Jul;23(7):1542-51. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhs140. Epub 2012 Jun 
1.

The influence of prior expectations on emotional face perception in adolescence.

Barbalat G(1), Bazargani N, Blakemore SJ.

Author information:
(1)UCL Institute of Cognitive Neuroscience, London, UK. 
guillaumebarbalat@gmail.com

Prior expectations influence the way incoming stimuli are processed. A standard, 
validated way of manipulating prior expectations is to bias participants to 
perceive a stimulus by instructing them to look out for this type of stimulus. 
Here, we investigated the influence of prior expectations on the processing of 
incoming stimuli (emotional faces) in adolescence. Using functional magnetic 
resonance imaging, we assessed activity and functional connectivity in 13 
adolescents and 13 healthy adults (matched for gender and intelligence 
quotient), while they were presented with sequences of emotional faces (happy, 
fearful, or angry). A specific instruction at the start of each sequence 
instructed the participants to look out for fearful or angry faces in the 
subsequent sequence. Both groups responded more accurately and with shorter 
reaction times (RTs) to faces that were congruent with the instruction. For 
anger, this bias was lower in the adolescents (for RTs), and adults demonstrated 
greater activation than adolescents in the ventro-medial prefrontal cortex 
(vMPFC) and greater functional connectivity between the vMPFC and the thalamus 
when the face was congruent with the instruction. Our results demonstrate that 
the influence of prior expectations (in the form of an instruction) on the 
subsequent processing of face stimuli is still developing in the adolescent 
brain.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhs140
PMID: 22661411 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. Mol Psychiatry. 2013 May;18(5):624-30. doi: 10.1038/mp.2012.56. Epub 2012 Jun 5.

Cortical thickness of superior frontal cortex predicts impulsiveness and 
perceptual reasoning in adolescence.

Schilling C(1), Kühn S, Paus T, Romanowski A, Banaschewski T, Barbot A, Barker 
GJ, Brühl R, Büchel C, Conrod PJ, Dalley JW, Flor H, Ittermann B, Ivanov N, Mann 
K, Martinot JL, Nees F, Rietschel M, Robbins TW, Smolka MN, Ströhle A, Kathmann 
N, Garavan H, Heinz A, Schumann G, Gallinat J; IMAGEN consortium 
(www.imagen-europe.com).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, Charité University Medicine 
Campus Mitte, Clinic for Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, Berlin, Germany. 
christina.schilling@charite.de

Impulsiveness is a pivotal personality trait representing a core domain in all 
major personality inventories. Recently, impulsiveness has been identified as an 
important modulator of cognitive processing, particularly in tasks that require 
the processing of large amounts of information. Although brain imaging studies 
have implicated the prefrontal cortex to be a common underlying representation 
of impulsiveness and related cognitive functioning, to date a fine-grain and 
detailed morphometric analysis has not been carried out. On the basis of 
ahigh-resolution magnetic resonance scans acquired in 1620 healthy adolescents 
(IMAGEN), the individual cortical thickness (CT) was estimated. Correlations 
between Cloninger's impulsiveness and CT were studied in an entire cortex 
analysis. The cluster identified was tested for associations with performance in 
perceptual reasoning tasks of the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children (WISC 
IV). We observed a significant inverse correlation between trait impulsiveness 
and CT of the left superior frontal cortex (SFC; Monte Carlo Simulation P<0.01). 
CT within this cluster correlated with perceptual reasoning scores (Bonferroni 
corrected) of the WISC IV. On the basis of a large sample of adolescents, we 
identified an extended area in the SFC as a correlate of impulsiveness, which 
appears to be in line with the trait character of this prominent personality 
facet. The association of SFC thickness with perceptual reasoning argues for a 
common neurobiological basis of personality and specific cognitive domains 
comprising attention, spatial reasoning and response selection. The results may 
facilitate the understanding of the role of impulsiveness in several psychiatric 
disorders associated with prefrontal dysfunctions and cognitive deficits.

DOI: 10.1038/mp.2012.56
PMID: 22665261 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Colorectal Dis. 2013 Jan;15(1):74-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1463-1318.2012.03120.x.

Survival outcome of patients with screening versus symptomatically detected 
colorectal cancers.

Pande R(1), Froggatt P, Baragwanath P, Harmston C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Colorectal Surgery, University Hospital Coventry, Coventry, UK.

AIM: The national Bowel Cancer Screening Programme has been rolled out 
nationwide following pilot screening in two health authorities in the UK. The 
aim of this study was to define overall 5-year survival of screen detected 
cancers and to compare the overall survival outcome of screened vs symptomatic 
patients over a 10-year period.
METHOD: All patients with colorectal cancer treated at one trust in patients of 
screening age (50-69 years) during the pilot screening programme (2000-2008) 
were analysed. Patients were defined as screen detected or symptomatically 
detected. Disease pathology and recurrence data were obtained from the 
hospital's computerized results reporting system and mortality was cross-matched 
with data from the West Midlands Cancer Intelligence Network.
RESULTS: In all, 633 patients aged 50-69 were identified in the study period; 
155 patients had a screen detected cancer and 478 did not. A log-rank test 
completed on survival outcomes indicated that survival was significantly worse 
in the symptomatic group. This difference persisted if only patients treated 
with curative intent were considered.
CONCLUSION: Survival outcome was significantly better in the screened vs the 
symptomatic population in all groups and also in those treated for curative 
intent. There was a trend towards better survival for screen detected cancer 
when compared stage for stage.

© 2012 The Authors. Colorectal Disease © 2012 The Association of Coloproctology 
of Great Britain and Ireland.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1463-1318.2012.03120.x
PMID: 22672571 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Drug Alcohol Rev. 2013 Jan;32(1):19-26. doi: 10.1111/j.1465-3362.2012.00476.x. 
Epub 2012 Jun 3.

Comparing alcohol affordability in 65 cities worldwide.

Kan MY(1), Lau M.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Greater China Studies, The Hong Kong Institute of Education, Hong 
Kong, China. mingyuekan@gmail.com

INTRODUCTION AND AIMS: To develop a measure of alcohol affordability (AA) and 
compare the AA of 65 cities worldwide.
DESIGN AND METHODS: In this paper, AA is defined as the proportion of median 
daily income needed to buy a certain quantity of certain alcoholic beverages. 
The income data and the price of alcoholic beverages were drawn from the Union 
Bank of Switzerland survey and the Economist Intelligence Unit respectively.
RESULTS: A large majority of cities (87.7%, n = 57) had a high level of AA. The 
top 20 ranking was occupied by European and American cities with Tokyo in the 
Western Pacific region being the exception. All cities belonging to high-income 
countries had high levels of AA. However, two cities with low-level AA came from 
low-middle-income countries instead of low-income countries.
DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS: The findings have shown that alcohol consumption is 
highly affordable in many cities. If price policy is being considered as policy 
instrument of alcohol control, it is in urgent need of price adjustments. More 
specifically, the new emerging economies play a significant role in the world 
alcohol control movement because of their bright economic performance with huge 
population size. Further studies on AA, especially periodical monitoring and its 
impacts on alcohol consumption and alcohol related health problems, should be 
conducted so as to facilitate the formulation and evaluation price measure of 
alcohol control.

© 2012 Australasian Professional Society on Alcohol and other Drugs.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1465-3362.2012.00476.x
PMID: 22672655 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Child Neuropsychol. 2013;19(4):420-37. doi: 10.1080/09297049.2012.690371. Epub 
2012 Jun 11.

Cognitive and behavioral attention in children with math difficulties.

Gold AB(1), Ewing-Cobbs L, Cirino P, Fuchs LS, Stuebing KK, Fletcher JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Houston, Houston, TX 77204, USA. 
abgold@uh.edu

Cognitive assessments and behavioral ratings of attention were used to examine 
the relation of inattention to math performance in children. Third grade 
students with math difficulties (MD; n = 17) and math and reading difficulties 
(MDRD; n = 35) were administered the Attentional Network Test (ANT), as well as 
achievement and intelligence measures. Strengths and Weaknesses of ADHD-Symptoms 
and Normal-Behavior-IV (SWAN-IV) Inattention ratings were collected from 
teachers. Two comparison groups were also recruited: a typically achieving group 
(n = 23) and a group that responded to a math-tutoring intervention (responders; 
n = 54). On the ANT, children with MD and MDRD did not perform significantly 
different than typically achieving children or responders on measures of 
alerting and orienting attention and executive control. All subgroups did 
demonstrate performance patterns that were expected on the ANT. However, 
performance across blocks of the task was inconsistent, suggesting poor 
reliability. There were no relations between ANT performance and SWAN-IV 
behavioral inattention scores, though behavioral ratings of inattention 
correlated significantly with math performance. Children with MD and MDRD may 
have more difficulty with distraction and attention to detail in contextual 
situations, as opposed to impulsive responding in these settings. The lack of 
relation between cognitive attention and math performance may suggest that 
either the ANT does not assess the relevant attention constructs associated with 
math difficulties or may parallel studies of attention deficit/hyperactivity 
disorder (ADHD) in which cognitive and behavioral assessments are weakly 
related.

DOI: 10.1080/09297049.2012.690371
PMCID: PMC4155495
PMID: 22686370 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. J Exp Psychol Gen. 2013 Feb;142(1):143-150. doi: 10.1037/a0028930. Epub 2012 Jun 
11.

The modular nature of trustworthiness detection.

Bonnefon JF(1), Hopfensitz A(2), De Neys W(3).

Author information:
(1)Cognition, Langues, Langage et Ergonomie, Centre National de la Recherche 
Scientifique.
(2)Toulouse School of Economics.
(3)Laboratoire Alfred Binet, Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique.

The capacity to trust wisely is a critical facilitator of success and 
prosperity, and it has been conjectured that people of higher intelligence are 
better able to detect signs of untrustworthiness from potential partners. In 
contrast, this article reports five trust game studies suggesting that reading 
trustworthiness of the faces of strangers is a modular process. Trustworthiness 
detection from faces is independent of general intelligence (Study 1) and 
effortless (Study 2). Pictures that include nonfacial features such as hair and 
clothing impair trustworthiness detection (Study 3) by increasing reliance on 
conscious judgments (Study 4), but people largely prefer to make decisions from 
this sort of pictures (Study 5). In sum, trustworthiness detection in an 
economic interaction is a genuine and effortless ability, possessed in equal 
amount by people of all cognitive capacities, but whose impenetrability leads to 
inaccurate conscious judgments and inappropriate informational preferences.

2013 APA, all rights reserved

DOI: 10.1037/a0028930
PMID: 22686638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Hum Brain Mapp. 2013 Nov;34(11):2899-909. doi: 10.1002/hbm.22112. Epub 2012 Jun 
13.

Childhood maltreatment is associated with an automatic negative emotion 
processing bias in the amygdala.

Dannlowski U(1), Kugel H, Huber F, Stuhrmann A, Redlich R, Grotegerd D, Dohm K, 
Sehlmeyer C, Konrad C, Baune BT, Arolt V, Heindel W, Zwitserlood P, Suslow T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Münster, Germany; Department of 
Psychiatry, University of Marburg, Germany.

Major depression has been repeatedly associated with amygdala 
hyper-responsiveness to negative (but not positive) facial expressions at early, 
automatic stages of emotion processing using subliminally presented stimuli. 
However, it is not clear whether this "limbic bias" is a correlate of depression 
or represents a vulnerability marker preceding the onset of the disease. Because 
childhood maltreatment is a potent risk factor for the development of major 
depression in later life, we explored whether childhood maltreatment is 
associated with amygdalar emotion processing bias in maltreated but healthy 
subjects. Amygdala responsiveness to subliminally presented sad and happy faces 
was measured by means of fMRI at 3 T in N = 150 healthy subjects carefully 
screened for psychiatric disorders. Childhood maltreatment was assessed by the 
25-item childhood trauma questionnaire (CTQ). A strong association of CTQ-scores 
with amygdala responsiveness to sad, but not happy facial expressions emerged. 
This result was further qualified by an interaction of emotional valence and 
CTQ-scores and was not confounded by trait anxiety, current depression level, 
age, gender, intelligence, education level, and more recent stressful 
life-events. Childhood maltreatment is apparently associated with detectable 
changes in amygdala function during early stages of emotion processing which 
resemble findings described in major depression. Limbic hyper-responsiveness to 
negative facial cues could be a consequence of the experience of maltreatment 
during childhood increasing the risk of depression in later life.
LIMITATION: the present association of limbic bias and maltreatment was 
demonstrated in the absence of psychopathological abnormalities, thereby 
limiting strong conclusions.

Copyright © 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/hbm.22112
PMCID: PMC6870128
PMID: 22696400 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Gen Hosp Psychiatry. 2013 Jan-Feb;35(1):103.e7-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.genhosppsych.2012.05.002. Epub 2012 Jun 14.

Aripiprazole improves various cognitive and behavioral impairments after 
traumatic brain injury: a case report.

Umene-Nakano W(1), Yoshimura R, Okamoto T, Hori H, Nakamura J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, School of Medicine, University of Occupational and 
Environmental Health, Iseigaoka, Yahatanishi-ku, Kitakyushu, Fukuoka 8078555, 
Japan. wakako-u@med.uoeh-u.ac.jp

Various types of cognitive and behavioral impairments occur after traumatic 
brain injury. We present a case exhibiting psychotic symptoms such as 
irritability, dysphoria, anxiety and insomnia with severe brain dysfunction due 
to a right temporal lobe contusion incurred in a traffic accident. The patient 
did not sufficiently respond to rehabilitation or treatment with any 
pharmacotherapy. In the present case, aripiprazole dramatically improved the 
patient's symptoms and cognitive function. We evaluated the case using the 
Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Revised and the Wechsler Memory Scale Revised 
between baseline and 5 years later.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.genhosppsych.2012.05.002
PMID: 22703607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. J Exp Psychol Gen. 2013 May;142(2):359-79. doi: 10.1037/a0029082. Epub 2012 Jun 
18.

No evidence of intelligence improvement after working memory training: a 
randomized, placebo-controlled study.

Redick TS(1), Shipstead Z, Harrison TL, Hicks KL, Fried DE, Hambrick DZ, Kane 
MJ, Engle RW.

Author information:
(1)School of Psychology, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA. 
tsredick@iupuc.edu

Numerous recent studies seem to provide evidence for the general intellectual 
benefits of working memory training. In reviews of the training literature, 
Shipstead, Redick, and Engle (2010, 2012) argued that the field should treat 
recent results with a critical eye. Many published working memory training 
studies suffer from design limitations (no-contact control groups, single 
measures of cognitive constructs), mixed results (transfer of training gains to 
some tasks but not others, inconsistent transfer to the same tasks across 
studies), and lack of theoretical grounding (identifying the mechanisms 
responsible for observed transfer). The current study compared young adults who 
received 20 sessions of practice on an adaptive dual n-back program (working 
memory training group) or an adaptive visual search program (active 
placebo-control group) with a no-contact control group that received no 
practice. In addition, all subjects completed pretest, midtest, and posttest 
sessions comprising multiple measures of fluid intelligence, multitasking, 
working memory capacity, crystallized intelligence, and perceptual speed. 
Despite improvements on both the dual n-back and visual search tasks with 
practice, and despite a high level of statistical power, there was no positive 
transfer to any of the cognitive ability tests. We discuss these results in the 
context of previous working memory training research and address issues for 
future working memory training studies.

PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2013 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/a0029082
PMID: 22708717 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. J Biosoc Sci. 2013 Jan;45(1):41-56. doi: 10.1017/S0021932012000156. Epub 2012 
Apr 19.

Pre- and postnatal drivers of childhood intelligence: evidence from Singapore.

Pacheco G(1), Hedges M, Schilling C, Morton S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, Auckland University of Technology, Auckland, New 
Zealand.

This study seeks to investigate what influences intelligence in early childhood. 
The Singapore Cohort Study of the Risk Factors of Myopia (SCORM) is used to 
assess determinants of childhood IQ and changes in IQ. This longitudinal data 
set, collected in 1999, includes a wealth of demographic, socioeconomic and 
prenatal characteristics. The richness of the data allows various econometric 
approaches to be employed, including the use of ordered and multinomial logit 
analysis. Mother's education is found to be a consistent and key determinant of 
childhood IQ. Father's education and school quality are found to be key drivers 
for increasing IQ levels above the average sample movement.

DOI: 10.1017/S0021932012000156
PMID: 22716898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Curr Drug Discov Technol. 2013 Mar;10(1):2-7.

Science of the science, drug discovery and artificial neural networks.

Patel J(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Scientific Researchers, 19, Devchhaya Society, Nr. Sattadhar 
Society, Sola Road, Ghatlodia, Ahmedabad-380061, Gujarat, India. 
drjigneshkumar@gmail.com

Drug discovery process many times encounters complex problems, which may be 
difficult to solve by human intelligence. Artificial Neural Networks (ANNs) are 
one of the Artificial Intelligence (AI) technologies used for solving such 
complex problems. ANNs are widely used for primary virtual screening of 
compounds, quantitative structure activity relationship studies, receptor 
modeling, formulation development, pharmacokinetics and in all other processes 
involving complex mathematical modeling. Despite having such advanced 
technologies and enough understanding of biological systems, drug discovery is 
still a lengthy, expensive, difficult and inefficient process with low rate of 
new successful therapeutic discovery. In this paper, author has discussed the 
drug discovery science and ANN from very basic angle, which may be helpful to 
understand the application of ANN for drug discovery to improve efficiency.

PMID: 22725688 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. Neuropsychol Dev Cogn B Aging Neuropsychol Cogn. 2013;20(3):253-70. doi: 
10.1080/13825585.2012.692761. Epub 2012 Jun 25.

Cognitive aging explains age-related differences in face-based recognition of 
basic emotions except for anger and disgust.

Suzuki A(1), Akiyama H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Social and Human Environment, Graduate School of Environmental 
Studies, Nagoya University, Nagoya, Japan. atsuzuki@nagoya-u.jp

This study aimed at a detailed understanding of the possible dissociable 
influences of cognitive aging on the recognition of facial expressions of basic 
emotions (happiness, surprise, fear, anger, disgust, and sadness). The 
participants were 36 older and 36 young adults. They viewed 96 pictures of 
facial expressions and were asked to choose one emotion that best described 
each. Four cognitive tasks measuring the speed of processing and fluid 
intelligence were also administered, the scores of which were used to compute a 
composite measure of general cognitive ability. A series of hierarchical 
regression analyses revealed that age-related deficits in identifying happiness, 
surprise, fear, and sadness were statistically explained by general cognitive 
ability, while the differences in anger and disgust were not. This provides 
clear evidence that age-related cognitive impairment remarkably and 
differentially affects the recognition of basic emotions, contrary to the common 
view that cognitive aging has a uniformly minor effect.

DOI: 10.1080/13825585.2012.692761
PMID: 22730925 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Mol Psychiatry. 2013 Jul;18(7):774-80. doi: 10.1038/mp.2012.84. Epub 2012 Jun 
26.

Genome-wide supported variant MIR137 and severe negative symptoms predict 
membership of an impaired cognitive subtype of schizophrenia.

Green MJ(1), Cairns MJ, Wu J, Dragovic M, Jablensky A, Tooney PA, Scott RJ, Carr 
VJ; Australian Schizophrenia Research Bank.

Author information:
(1)School of Psychiatry, University of New South Wales, Research Unit for 
Schizophrenia Epidemiology, St Vincent's Hospital, Darlinghurst, NSW, Australia. 
melissa.green@unsw.edu.au

Erratum in
    Mol Psychiatry. 2013 Jul;18(7):843.

Progress in determining the aetiology of schizophrenia (Sz) has arguably been 
limited by a poorly defined phenotype. We sought to delineate empirically 
derived cognitive subtypes of Sz to investigate the association of a genetic 
variant identified in a recent genome-wide association study with specific 
phenotypic characteristics of Sz. We applied Grade of Membership (GoM) analyses 
to 617 patients meeting ICD-10 criteria for Sz (n=526) or schizoaffective 
disorder (n=91), using cognitive performance indicators collected within the 
Australian Schizophrenia Research Bank. Cognitive variables included subscales 
from the Repeatable Battery for the Assessment of Neuropsychological Status, the 
Controlled Oral Word Association Test and the Letter Number Sequencing Test, and 
standardised estimates of premorbid and current intelligence quotient. The most 
parsimonious GoM solution yielded two subtypes of clinical cases reflecting 
those with cognitive deficits (CDs; N=294), comprising 47.6% of the sample who 
were impaired across all cognitive measures, and a cognitively spared group (CS; 
N=323) made up of the remaining 52.4% who performed relatively well on all 
cognitive tests. The CD subgroup were more likely to be unemployed, had an 
earlier illness onset, and greater severity of functional disability and 
negative symptoms than the CS group. Risk alleles on the MIR137 
single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) predicted membership of CD subtype only in 
combination with higher severity of negative symptoms. These findings provide 
the first evidence for association of the MIR137 SNP with a specific Sz 
phenotype characterised by severe CDs and negative symptoms, consistent with the 
emerging role of microRNAs in the regulation of proteins responsible for neural 
development and function.

DOI: 10.1038/mp.2012.84
PMID: 22733126 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Neurobiol Aging. 2013 Jan;34(1):298-308. doi: 
10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2012.05.019. Epub 2012 Jun 27.

A noradrenergic theory of cognitive reserve: implications for Alzheimer's 
disease.

Robertson IH(1).

Author information:
(1)Trinity College Institute of Neuroscience and School of Psychology, Trinity 
College, Dublin, Ireland. iroberts@tcd.ie

The gap between symptoms and pathology in Alzheimer's disease has been explained 
by the hypothetical construct of "cognitive reserve"--a set of variables 
including education, intelligence, and mental stimulation which putatively allow 
the brain to adapt to-and hence mask--underlying pathologies by maintaining 
cognitive function despite underlying neural changes. This review proposes a 
hypothesis that a biological mechanism may mediate between these 
social/psychological processes on the one hand, and apparently reduced risk of 
Alzheimer's disease on the other, namely repeated activation of the 
noradrenergic system over a lifetime by the processes implicated in cognitive 
reserve. Noradrenaline's neuroprotective effects both in vivo and in vitro, and 
its key role in mediating the neuroprotective effects of environmental 
enrichment on the brain, make noradrenaline's key role in mediating cognitive 
reserve--by disease compensation, disease modification, or a combination of 
both--a viable hypothesis.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2012.05.019
PMID: 22743090 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. Health Commun. 2013;28(4):341-50. doi: 10.1080/10410236.2012.688009. Epub 2012 
Jul 2.

Food, class, and health: the role of the perceived body in the social 
reproduction of health.

Chapman SL(1), Wu LT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Duke University Medical 
Center, Durham, NC 27710, USA. Shawna.Chapman@dm.duke.edu

The association between social class and cardiovascular health is complex, 
involving a constant interplay of factors as individuals integrate external 
information from the media, health care providers, and people they know with 
personal experience to produce health behaviors. This ethnographic study took 
place from February 2008 to February 2009 to assess how cardiovascular health 
information circulating in Kansas City influenced a sample of 55 women in the 
area. Participants were primarily Caucasian (n = 41) but diverse in terms of 
age, income, and education. Themes identified in transcripts showed women shared 
the same idea of an ideal body, young and thin, and associated this perception 
with ideas about good health, intelligence, and morality. Transcript themes 
corresponded to those found at health events and in the media that emphasized 
individual control over determinants of disease. Women's physical appearance and 
health behaviors corresponded to class indicators. Four categories were 
identified to represent women's shared beliefs and practices in relation to 
class, cardiovascular disease, and obesity. Findings were placed within an 
existing body of social theory to better understand how cardiovascular health 
information and women's associated beliefs relate to health inequality.

DOI: 10.1080/10410236.2012.688009
PMCID: PMC3527688
PMID: 22746270 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. J Child Neurol. 2013 Apr;28(4):446-54. doi: 10.1177/0883073812447684. Epub 2012 
Jun 29.

Congenital brain damage: cognitive development correlates with lesion and 
electroencephalographic features.

Riva D(1), Franceschetti S, Erbetta A, Baranello G, Esposito S, Bulgheroni S.

Author information:
(1)Developmental Neurology Division, Fondazione IRCCS Istituto Neurologico C. 
Besta, via Celoria, Milano, Italy. driva@istituto-besta.it

The purpose of this study was to assess cognitive development in 26 children 
with congenital focal brain lesion and unilateral spastic cerebral palsy first 
diagnosed and followed up for rehabilitation at our institution. Mean 
intelligence quotients (IQs) were correlated not only to the different features 
of the cerebral lesions, but also to the different types of 
electroencephalographic abnormalities. We also examined individual scores. We 
found that about 70% of the children had values of Full-Scale, Verbal, and 
Performance IQs within the normal range. No differences were found between left 
and right injured children. Different Verbal IQ-Performance IQ profiles were 
observed. Larger lesions and some electroencephalographic features, mainly 
signal slowing/attenuation as signs of structural brain damage, were 
significantly associated with lower intellectual abilities. The role of other 
factors, including genetic and environmental background variability, as well as 
rehabilitative treatments, on cognitive sequelae in such patients was discussed.

DOI: 10.1177/0883073812447684
PMID: 22752481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. J Child Neurol. 2013 May;28(5):570-5. doi: 10.1177/0883073812449381. Epub 2012 
Jun 29.

Effectiveness and safety of donepezil in boys with fragile x syndrome: a 
double-blind, randomized, controlled pilot study.

Sahu JK(1), Gulati S, Sapra S, Arya R, Chauhan S, Chowdhury MR, Gupta N, Kabra 
M, Gupta YK, Dwivedi SN, Kalra V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education & 
Research, Chandigarh, India.

The present study was designed as a 12-week, randomized, double-blind, 
placebo-controlled pilot study to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of 
donepezil in boys with fragile X syndrome. Twenty boys with fragile X syndrome 
were randomized to receive 12 weeks of treatment with either placebo or 
donepezil (2.5 mg daily for initial 4 weeks followed by 5 mg daily for next 8 
weeks). The outcome measures included change in intelligence quotient scores on 
Stanford-Binet Intelligence Scale (Hindi adaptation by Kulshrestha), change in 
behavioral scores by Conners 3 Parent Rating Scale (Short) and Childhood Autism 
Rating Scale, safety, and tolerability of donepezil. The study failed to show 
significant difference in intelligence quotient and behavioral scales with 
donepezil therapy over 12 weeks. However, donepezil appeared to be safe and well 
tolerated.

DOI: 10.1177/0883073812449381
PMID: 22752489 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


61. J Child Neurol. 2013 Apr;28(4):435-45. doi: 10.1177/0883073812447682. Epub 2012 
Jul 2.

Functional magnetic resonance imaging reveals changes in language localization 
in children with benign childhood epilepsy with centrotemporal spikes.

Vannest J(1), Szaflarski JP, Eaton KP, Henkel DM, Morita D, Glauser TA, Byars 
AW, Patel K, Holland SK.

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Neuroimaging Research Consortium, Cincinnati Children's Hospital 
Medical Center, Cincinnati, OH 45229, USA. Jennifer.Vannest@cchmc.org

In children with benign childhood epilepsy with centrotemporal spikes, 
centrotemporal spikes may cause language dysfunction via disruption of 
underlying functional neuroanatomy. Fifteen patients with benign childhood 
epilepsy with centrotemporal spikes and 15 healthy controls completed 3 
functional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) language paradigms; standardized 
cognitive and language assessments were also performed. For all paradigms, 
children with benign childhood epilepsy with centrotemporal spikes showed 
specific regional differences in activation compared to controls. Children with 
benign childhood epilepsy with centrotemporal spikes also differed from controls 
on neuropsychological testing. They did not differ in general intelligence, but 
children with benign childhood epilepsy with centrotemporal spikes scored 
significantly lower than controls on tests of language, visuomotor integration, 
and processing speed. These results extend previous findings of lower language 
and cognitive skills in patients with benign childhood epilepsy with 
centrotemporal spikes, and suggest epilepsy-related remodeling of language 
networks that may underlie these observed differences.

DOI: 10.1177/0883073812447682
PMID: 22761402 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. Neurobiol Aging. 2013 Mar;34(3):641-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2012.06.006. Epub 2012 Jul 6.

Fasting plasma insulin and the default mode network in women at risk for 
Alzheimer's disease.

Kenna H(1), Hoeft F, Kelley R, Wroolie T, DeMuth B, Reiss A, Rasgon N.

Author information:
(1)Stanford Center for Neurosciences in Women's Health, Department of Psychiatry 
and Behavioral Sciences, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 95305-5723, USA.

Brain imaging studies in Alzheimer's disease research have demonstrated 
structural and functional perturbations in the hippocampus and default mode 
network (DMN). Additional evidence suggests risk for pathological brain aging in 
association with insulin resistance (IR). This study piloted investigation of 
associations of IR with DMN-hippocampal functional connectivity among 
postmenopausal women at risk for Alzheimer's disease. Twenty middle-aged women 
underwent resting state functional magnetic resonance imaging. Subjects were 
dichotomized relative to fasting plasma insulin levels (i.e., > 8 μIU/mL [n = 
10] and < 8 μIU/mL [n = 10]), and functional connectivity analysis contrasted 
their respective blood oxygen level-dependent signal correlation between DMN and 
hippocampal regions. Higher-insulin women had significantly reduced positive 
associations between the medial prefrontal cortex and bilateral parahippocampal 
regions extending to the right hippocampus, and conversely, between the left and 
right hippocampus and medial prefrontal cortex. Neuropsychological data (all 
within normal ranges) also showed significant differences with respect to 
executive functioning and global intelligence. The results provide further 
evidence of deleterious effects of IR on the hippocampus and cognition. Further 
imaging studies of the IR-related perturbations in DMN-hippocampal functional 
connectivity are needed.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2012.06.006
PMCID: PMC4769033
PMID: 22770543 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure statement: None of the authors nor 
their institution have any actual or potential conflicts of interest to 
disclose. All procedures involving human subjects were reviewed and approved by 
the Stanford University Institutional Review Board prior to subject 
participation.


63. Cortex. 2013 May;49(5):1195-205. doi: 10.1016/j.cortex.2012.05.022. Epub 2012 
Jun 16.

Dorsolateral prefrontal contributions to human working memory.

Barbey AK(1), Koenigs M, Grafman J.

Author information:
(1)Decision Neuroscience Laboratory, Beckman Institute for Advanced Science and 
Technology, Department of Internal Medicine, University of Illinois at 
Urbana-Champaign, Champaign, IL 61820, USA. barbey@illinois.edu

Although neuroscience has made remarkable progress in understanding the 
involvement of prefrontal cortex (PFC) in human memory, the necessity of 
dorsolateral PFC (dlPFC) for key competencies of working memory remains largely 
unexplored. We therefore studied human brain lesion patients to determine 
whether dlPFC is necessary for working memory function, administering subtests 
of the Wechsler Memory Scale, the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale, and the 
N-Back Task to three participant groups: dlPFC lesions (n=19), non-dlPFC lesions 
(n=152), and no brain lesions (n=54). DlPFC damage was associated with deficits 
in the manipulation of verbal and spatial knowledge, with left dlPFC necessary 
for manipulating information in working memory and right dlPFC critical for 
manipulating information in a broader range of reasoning contexts. Our findings 
elucidate the architecture of working memory, providing key neuropsychological 
evidence for the necessity of dlPFC in the manipulation of verbal and spatial 
knowledge.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cortex.2012.05.022
PMCID: PMC3495093
PMID: 22789779 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. Soc Cogn Affect Neurosci. 2013 Oct;8(7):813-9. doi: 10.1093/scan/nss077. Epub 
2012 Jul 13.

A selective role for right insula--basal ganglia circuits in appetitive stimulus 
processing.

Vijayaraghavan L(1), Adolphs R, Kennedy DP, Cassell M, Tranel D, Paradiso S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Iowa, College of Medicine, Iowa City, 
IA, USA. sergio-paradiso@uiowa.edu.

Hemispheric lateralization of hedonic evaluation ('liking') and incentive 
motivation ('wanting') in neural networks connecting the basal ganglia and 
insula (BG-I) in humans was examined. Participants with brain damage restricted 
to the BG-I of the right (n = 5) or left (n = 5) hemisphere, and 26 healthy 
participants matched on age, sex and intelligence quotient were tested on 
positively and negatively valenced pictures drawn from varied stimulus 
categories (Vijayaraghavan et al., 2008). Liking was assessed with explicit 
ratings of pleasantness using a nine-point Likert scale. Wanting was quantified 
as the amount of work (via repeated keypresses) that participants expended to 
increase (approach) or decrease (withdraw) viewing time. Right-lesion patients 
showed abnormally low viewing times and liking ratings for positive images. For 
a subset of positive images depicting sexual content, right-lesion patients 
exhibited active withdrawal, while the other two groups approached such stimuli. 
These results suggest that the right basal ganglia-insula complex plays a 
greater role than the left in supporting hedonic evaluation and motivational 
approach to positively valenced stimuli. The finding that active avoidance of 
stimuli that were not 'liked' was spared in both right- and left-sided lesion 
subjects suggests that unilateral damage to insula/basal ganglia circuits may 
not be sufficient to affect general incentive motivation independent of 
preference.

DOI: 10.1093/scan/nss077
PMCID: PMC3791073
PMID: 22798397 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. J Autism Dev Disord. 2013 Mar;43(3):643-62. doi: 10.1007/s10803-012-1606-9.

Reliability and validity of autism diagnostic interview-revised, Japanese 
version.

Tsuchiya KJ(1), Matsumoto K, Yagi A, Inada N, Kuroda M, Inokuchi E, Koyama T, 
Kamio Y, Tsujii M, Sakai S, Mohri I, Taniike M, Iwanaga R, Ogasahara K, Miyachi 
T, Nakajima S, Tani I, Ohnishi M, Inoue M, Nomura K, Hagiwara T, Uchiyama T, 
Ichikawa H, Kobayashi S, Miyamoto K, Nakamura K, Suzuki K, Mori N, Takei N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Child Development, United Graduate School of Child Development 
at Hamamatsu, Handayama 1 Higashiku, Hamamatsu, 431-3192, Japan. 
tsuchiya@hama-med.ac.jp

To examine the inter-rater reliability of Autism Diagnostic Interview-Revised, 
Japanese Version (ADI-R-JV), the authors recruited 51 individuals aged 3-19 
years, interviewed by two independent raters. Subsequently, to assess the 
discriminant and diagnostic validity of ADI-R-JV, the authors investigated 317 
individuals aged 2-19 years, who were divided into three diagnostic groups as 
follows: autistic disorder (AD), pervasive developmental disorder not otherwise 
specified, and other psychiatric diagnosis or no diagnosis, according to the 
consensus clinical diagnosis. As regards inter-rater reliability, intraclass 
correlation coefficients of greater than 0.80 were obtained for all three 
domains of ADI-R-JV. As regards discriminant validity, the mean scores of the 
three domains was significantly higher in individuals with AD than in those of 
other diagnostic groups. As regards diagnostic validity, sensitivity and 
specificity for correctly diagnosing AD were 0.92 and 0.89, respectively, but 
sensitivity was 0.55 for individuals younger than 5 years. Specificity was 
consistently high regardless of age and intelligence. ADI-R-JV was shown to be a 
reliable tool, and has sufficient discriminant validity and satisfactory 
diagnostic validity for correctly diagnosing AD, although the diagnostic 
validity appeared to be compromised with respect to the diagnosis of younger 
individuals.

DOI: 10.1007/s10803-012-1606-9
PMID: 22806002 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. J Neural Transm (Vienna). 2013 Jan;120(1):121-30. doi: 
10.1007/s00702-012-0855-2. Epub 2012 Jul 19.

A systematic review on olfaction in child and adolescent psychiatric disorders.

Schecklmann M(1), Schwenck C, Taurines R, Freitag C, Warnke A, Gerlach M, 
Romanos M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University of Regensburg, 
Universitätsstrasse 84, 93053, Regensburg, Germany. martin.schecklmann@medbo.de

There is substantial evidence that olfactory function may serve as biomarker in 
adult neuropsychiatric disorders, e.g. overall diminished olfaction in 
Parkinson's disease as parameter for early pre-motor and differential diagnosis. 
Here, we present data from a systematic literature review in olfactory function 
in child and adolescent psychiatric disorders and report two unpublished data 
sets of autism and obsessive-compulsive disorder. The overall number of 
olfaction studies is low-even after taking into account adult samples. In 
addition, heterogeneity of findings is high due to methodological limitations 
such as the use of different olfactory tests and odours targeting the olfactory 
and/or the trigeminal system and neglecting possible confounders, e.g., 
intelligence or oto-rhino-laryngological affections. Despite these limitations, 
there is some indication for specific alterations of olfactory function 
especially in disorders with dopaminergic pathology (e.g. attention 
deficit/hyperactivity disorder, autism, schizophrenia, 22q11 deletion syndrome). 
Dopamine is a relevant modulator of early processes in the olfactory bulb. Our 
systematic review provides the basis for future confirmatory studies 
investigating olfaction as putative biomarker in child and adolescent 
psychiatric disorders. We further propose studies of thorough and elaborate 
methodological standards in combination with imaging techniques and the 
investigation of the influence of genetic variation on olfactory function.

DOI: 10.1007/s00702-012-0855-2
PMID: 22806003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Hum Brain Mapp. 2013 Dec;34(12):3143-57. doi: 10.1002/hbm.22129. Epub 2012 Jul 
17.

Changes in resting-state functionally connected parietofrontal networks after 
videogame practice.

Martínez K(1), Solana AB, Burgaleta M, Hernández-Tamames JA, Alvarez-Linera J, 
Román FJ, Alfayate E, Privado J, Escorial S, Quiroga MA, Karama S, Bellec P, 
Colom R.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Psicología Biológica y Salud, Universidad Autónoma de Madrid, 
Madrid, Spain; Área de Neuroimagen, Fundación CIEN-Fundación Reina Sofía, 
Madrid, Spain.

Neuroimaging studies provide evidence for organized intrinsic activity under 
task-free conditions. This activity serves functionally relevant brain systems 
supporting cognition. Here, we analyze changes in resting-state functional 
connectivity after videogame practice applying a test-retest design. Twenty 
young females were selected from a group of 100 participants tested on four 
standardized cognitive ability tests. The practice and control groups were 
carefully matched on their ability scores. The practice group played during two 
sessions per week across 4 weeks (16 h total) under strict supervision in the 
laboratory, showing systematic performance improvements in the game. A group 
independent component analysis (GICA) applying multisession temporal 
concatenation on test-retest resting-state fMRI, jointly with a dual-regression 
approach, was computed. Supporting the main hypothesis, the key finding reveals 
an increased correlated activity during rest in certain predefined resting state 
networks (albeit using uncorrected statistics) attributable to practice with the 
cognitively demanding tasks of the videogame. Observed changes were mainly 
concentrated on parietofrontal networks involved in heterogeneous cognitive 
functions.

Copyright © 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/hbm.22129
PMCID: PMC6870012
PMID: 22807280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. J Phys Act Health. 2013 Feb;10(2):185-97. doi: 10.1123/jpah.10.2.185. Epub 2012 
Jun 12.

Examining the impact of 45 minutes of daily physical education on cognitive 
ability, fitness performance, and body composition of African American youth.

Reed JA(1), Maslow AL, Long S, Hughey M.

Author information:
(1)Dept of Health Sciences, Furman University, Greenville, SC, USA.

OBJECT: Increased importance on academic achievement has resulted in many school 
districts focusing on improved academic performance leading to reductions in 
physical education time. The purpose was to examine the effects of 45 minutes of 
daily physical education on the cognitive ability, fitness performance and body 
composition of African American elementary and middle school youth.
METHODS: Participants completing the informed consent in grades 2nd to 8th were 
included in the study. A pre/posttest design was used with repeated measures 
analysis of variance. Experimental and control school participants were 
pretested on the cognitive measures (ie, Fluid Intelligence and Perceptual 
Speed) and Fitnessgram® physical fitness test items (eg, aerobic capacity, 
muscular strength and muscular endurance, body composition) in September 2009 
and posttested in May 2010.
RESULTS: Experimental elementary and middle school participants observed 
significantly greater improvements compared with control elementary and middle 
school participants on 7 of 16 fitness and body composition measures and on 8 of 
26 cognitive measures. These fitness, body composition, and cognitive 
improvement differences were more noticeable among elementary and middle school 
females.
CONCLUSIONS: Providing 45 minutes of daily physical education can perhaps 
increase cognitive ability while increasing fitness and decreasing the 
prevalence of overweight and obese youth.

DOI: 10.1123/jpah.10.2.185
PMID: 22820756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Med Eng Phys. 2013 Apr;35(4):505-14. doi: 10.1016/j.medengphy.2012.06.018. Epub 
2012 Jul 22.

An automatic medication self-management and monitoring system for independently 
living patients.

McCall C(1), Maynes B, Zou CC, Zhang NJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, University of 
Central Florida, 4000 Central Florida Blvd., Orlando, FL 32816-2362, United 
States. cmccall@stanford.edu

This paper describes the development, prototyping, and evaluation of RMAIS 
(RFID-based Medication Adherence Intelligence System). Previous work in this 
field has resulted in devices that are either costly or too complicated for 
general (especially elderly) patients to operate. RMAIS provides a practical and 
economical means for ordinary patients to easily manage their own medications, 
taking the right dosage of medicine at the prescribed time in a fully automatic 
way. The system design has the following features: (1) fully automatic operation 
for easy medication by using the built-in scale for dosage measurement and a 
motorized rotation plate to deliver the right medicine container in front of a 
patient, (2) various medication reminder messages for patients, and 
noncompliance alerts for caregivers (such as doctors, relatives or social 
workers who take care of the patients), and (3) incremental and economical 
adoption by pharmacies, patients, and insurance companies.

Copyright © 2012 IPEM. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.medengphy.2012.06.018
PMID: 22824724 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Addiction. 2013 Jan;108(1):136-45. doi: 10.1111/j.1360-0443.2012.03977.x. Epub 
2012 Jul 26.

A prospective study of learning, memory, and executive function in new MDMA 
users.

Wagner D(1), Becker B, Koester P, Gouzoulis-Mayfrank E, Daumann J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University of Cologne, Germany.

AIMS: It is still unclear if cognitive abnormalities in human 
3,4-methylenedioxymeth-amphetamine (MDMA) users existed before the beginning of 
use or if other confounders could explain the deficits. The present study was 
conducted in order to assess the relationship between beginning MDMA use and 
subsequent cognitive performance and to overcome previous methodological 
shortcomings.
DESIGN: A prospective cohort study in new MDMA users between 2006 and 2009 with 
a follow-up duration of 12 months.
SETTING AND PARTICIPANTS: Of the 149 almost MDMA-naive subjects examined at the 
initial assessment, 109 subjects participated again after 1 year. During this 
period, 43 subjects did not use any other illicit substance apart from cannabis; 
23 subjects used more than 10 pills MDMA (mean = 33.6). These groups then were 
compared by means of multivariate analyses of variance.
MEASUREMENTS: Change scores between the initial examination and follow-up on a 
neuropsychological test battery including measures of learning, memory, and 
frontal executive functions [Auditiv-Verbaler Lerntest (AVLT), Lern- und 
Gedächtnistest (LGT) 3, digit span test, digit symbol test, Stroop task, 
Trail-making test]. In addition, a comprehensive number of possibly relevant 
confounders including age, general intelligence, cannabis use, alcohol use, 
cigarette use, medical treatment, participation in sports, nutrition, sleep 
patterns and subjective wellbeing was assessed.
FINDINGS: Groups did not differ in any of the potential confounders. However, 
significant effects of immediate and delayed recall of a visual paired 
associates learning task between MDMA users and controls were found 
(respectively, F ((1,64)) = 11.43, P = 0.001, η(2) = 0.136 and F ((1,64)) = 
11.08, P = 0.002, η(2) = 0.144). No significant differences on the other 
neuropsychological tests were found.
CONCLUSIONS: MDMA appears to impair visual paired associates learning in new 
users, suggesting serotonergic dysfunction in hippocampal regions as a 
consequence of MDMA use.

© 2012 The Authors, Addiction © 2012 Society for the Study of Addiction.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1360-0443.2012.03977.x
PMID: 22831704 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. Int J Behav Med. 2013 Jun;20(2):206-12. doi: 10.1007/s12529-012-9251-4.

Predictors of a functional somatic syndrome diagnosis in patients with 
persistent functional somatic symptoms.

Kingma EM(1), de Jonge P, Ormel J, Rosmalen JG.

Author information:
(1)Interdisciplinary Center Psychopathology and Emotion regulation, University 
Medical Center Groningen, University of Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Functional somatic syndromes (FSS) are characterized by the 
existence of multiple persistent functional somatic symptoms. Not many patients 
fulfilling the criteria for an FSS, receive a formal diagnosis, and it is 
unknown which factors explain this discrepancy. Patients that tend to worry and 
patients that gather more health information may have an increased chance of an 
FSS diagnosis. We hypothesized that high intelligence and high neuroticism 
increase the probability of an FSS diagnosis in patients with persistent 
functional somatic symptoms.
PURPOSE: This study aims to investigate patient factors that might be important 
in the process of syndrome labeling.
METHODS: Our study was performed in a large, representative population cohort 
(n = 976) in Groningen, The Netherlands, and included two assessment waves. 
Intelligence was measured using the General Aptitude Test Battery version B 
1002-B. Neuroticism was measured using the 12-item neuroticism scale of the 
Eysenck Personality Questionnaire-Revised. Functional somatic symptoms were 
measured with the somatization section of the Composite International Diagnostic 
Interview. Current FSS diagnosis was assessed with a questionnaire. We performed 
multivariable logistic regression analyses including sum scores of neuroticism, 
intelligence scores, sex, number of functional somatic symptoms, and age as 
potential predictors of having an FSS diagnosis.
RESULTS: From the 976 participants that completed measurements at follow-up, 289 
(26.4 %) participants reported at least one persistent functional somatic 
symptom, and these subjects were included in the main analyses (38.4 % males, 
mean age of 55.2 years (SD = 10.7), 36-82 years). High numbers of functional 
somatic symptoms ((OR) = 1.320; 95 % (CI) = 1.097-1.588), female sex 
(OR = 9.068; 95 % CI = 4.061-20.251), and high intelligence (OR = 1.402; 95 % 
CI = 1.001-1.963) were associated with an FSS diagnosis, while age (OR = 0.989; 
95 % CI = 960-1.019) and neuroticism (OR = 0.956; 95 % CI = 0.872-1.048) were 
not.
CONCLUSION: This study suggests that high intelligence, but not high 
neuroticism, increases the chance of syndrome labeling in patients with 
persistent functional somatic symptoms.

DOI: 10.1007/s12529-012-9251-4
PMID: 22836483 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Ageing Res Rev. 2013 Jan;12(1):263-75. doi: 10.1016/j.arr.2012.07.003. Epub 2012 
Jul 25.

Cognitive interventions in healthy older adults and people with mild cognitive 
impairment: a systematic review.

Reijnders J(1), van Heugten C, van Boxtel M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Neuropsychology, School for Mental Health and 
Neuroscience, Maastricht University Medical Centre, The Netherlands. 
jennifer.reijnders@maastrichtuniversity.nl

Given that the research area of cognitive intervention studies in the aging 
population is growing rapidly, it is important to review and gauge more recent 
intervention studies, in order to determine the evidence for the effectiveness 
of cognitive interventions. The purpose of the present review was to update the 
recent systematic reviews of Papp et al. (2009) and Martin et al. (2011), to 
evaluate the effectiveness of cognitive interventions in healthy older adults 
and people with MCI, by taking into account the methodological quality of the 
interventions studies. A systematic review of randomized controlled trials (RCT) 
and clinical studies published between August 2007 and February 2012 in Pubmed 
and PsychINFO was performed. The quality of the included RCTs was assessed 
according to the CONSORT criteria for RCTs. A total of thirty-five studies were 
included; twenty-seven RTCs and eight clinical studies. The content of the 
intervention studies differed widely, as did the methodological quality of the 
included RCTs, but was considerably low with an average of 44% of the Consort 
items included. The results show evidence that cognitive training can be 
effective in improving various aspects of objective cognitive functioning; 
memory performance, executive functioning, processing speed, attention, fluid 
intelligence, and subjective cognitive performance. However, the issue whether 
the effects of cognitive interventions generalize to improvement in everyday 
life activities is still unresolved and needs to be addressed more explicitly in 
future research.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arr.2012.07.003
PMID: 22841936 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Cerebellum. 2013 Apr;12(2):267-76. doi: 10.1007/s12311-012-0407-1.

Cerebellar function in developmental dyslexia.

Stoodley CJ(1), Stein JF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, American University, 4400 Massachusetts Ave NW, 
Washington, DC 20016, USA. stoodley@american.edu

Developmental dyslexia is a genetically based neurobiological syndrome, which is 
characterized by reading difficulty despite normal or high general intelligence. 
Even remediated dyslexic readers rarely achieve fast, fluent reading. Some 
dyslexics also have impairments in attention, short-term memory, sequencing 
(letters, word sounds, and motor acts), eye movements, poor balance, and general 
clumsiness. The presence of "cerebellar" motor and fluency symptoms led to the 
proposal that cerebellar dysfunction contributes to the etiology of dyslexia. 
Supporting this, functional imaging studies suggest that the cerebellum is part 
of the neural network supporting reading in typically developing readers, and 
reading difficulties have been reported in patients with cerebellar damage. 
Differences in both cerebellar asymmetry and gray matter volume are some of the 
most consistent structural brain findings in dyslexics compared with good 
readers. Furthermore, cerebellar functional activation patterns during reading 
and motor learning can differ in dyslexic readers. Behaviorally, some children 
and adults with dyslexia show poorer performance on cerebellar motor tasks, 
including eye movement control, postural stability, and implicit motor learning. 
However, many dyslexics do not have cerebellar signs, many cerebellar patients 
do not have reading problems, and differences in dyslexic brains are found 
throughout the whole reading network, and not isolated to the cerebellum. 
Therefore, impaired cerebellar function is probably not the primary cause of 
dyslexia, but rather a more fundamental neurodevelopmental abnormality leads to 
differences throughout the reading network.

DOI: 10.1007/s12311-012-0407-1
PMID: 22851215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. Environ Sci Pollut Res Int. 2013 Apr;20(4):2271-87. doi: 
10.1007/s11356-012-1102-y. Epub 2012 Aug 1.

Predicting adsorptive removal of chlorophenol from aqueous solution using 
artificial intelligence based modeling approaches.

Singh KP(1), Gupta S, Ojha P, Rai P.

Author information:
(1)Environmental Chemistry Division, CSIR-Indian Institute of Toxicology 
Research (Council of Scientific and Industrial Research), Post Box 80, MG Marg 
Lucknow 226 001, India. kpsingh_52@yahoo.com

The research aims to develop artificial intelligence (AI)-based model to predict 
the adsorptive removal of 2-chlorophenol (CP) in aqueous solution by coconut 
shell carbon (CSC) using four operational variables (pH of solution, adsorbate 
concentration, temperature, and contact time), and to investigate their effects 
on the adsorption process. Accordingly, based on a factorial design, 640 batch 
experiments were conducted. Nonlinearities in experimental data were checked 
using Brock-Dechert-Scheimkman (BDS) statistics. Five nonlinear models were 
constructed to predict the adsorptive removal of CP in aqueous solution by CSC 
using four variables as input. Performances of the constructed models were 
evaluated and compared using statistical criteria. BDS statistics revealed 
strong nonlinearity in experimental data. Performance of all the models 
constructed here was satisfactory. Radial basis function network (RBFN) and 
multilayer perceptron network (MLPN) models performed better than generalized 
regression neural network, support vector machines, and gene expression 
programming models. Sensitivity analysis revealed that the contact time had 
highest effect on adsorption followed by the solution pH, temperature, and CP 
concentration. The study concluded that all the models constructed here were 
capable of capturing the nonlinearity in data. A better generalization and 
predictive performance of RBFN and MLPN models suggested that these can be used 
to predict the adsorption of CP in aqueous solution using CSC.

DOI: 10.1007/s11356-012-1102-y
PMID: 22851225 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. J Affect Disord. 2013 Jan 10;144(1-2):65-71. doi: 10.1016/j.jad.2012.06.005. 
Epub 2012 Aug 3.

Towards a clinical staging for bipolar disorder: defining patient subtypes based 
on functional outcome.

Reinares M(1), Papachristou E, Harvey P, Mar Bonnín C, Sánchez-Moreno J, Torrent 
C, Ayuso-Mateos JL, Ploubidis GB, Vieta E, Frangou S.

Author information:
(1)Bipolar Disorders Program, Institute of Neurosciences, Hospital Clínic, 
University of Barcelona, IDIBAPS, CIBERSAM, Barcelona, Spain.

BACKGROUND: The functional outcome of Bipolar Disorder (BD) is highly variable. 
This variability has been attributed to multiple demographic, clinical and 
cognitive factors. The critical next step is to identify combinations of 
predictors that can be used to specify prognostic subtypes, thus providing a 
basis for a staging classification in BD.
METHODS: Latent Class Analysis was applied to multiple predictors of functional 
outcome in a sample of 106 remitted adults with BD.
RESULTS: We identified two subtypes of patients presenting "good" (n=50; 47.6%) 
and "poor" (n=56; 52.4%) outcome. Episode density, level of residual depressive 
symptoms, estimated verbal intelligence and inhibitory control emerged as the 
most significant predictors of subtype membership at the p<0.05 level. Their 
odds ratio (OR) and confidence interval (CI) with reference to the "good" 
outcome group were: episode density (OR=4.622, CI 1.592-13.418), level of 
residual depressive symptoms (OR=1.543, CI 1.210-1.969), estimated verbal 
intelligence (OR=0.969; CI 0.945-0.995), and inhibitory control (OR=0.771, CI 
0.656-0.907). Age, age of onset and duration of illness were comparable between 
prognostic groups.
LIMITATIONS: The longitudinal stability or evolution of the subtypes was not 
tested.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings provide the first empirically derived staging 
classification of BD based on two underlying dimensions, one for illness 
severity and another for cognitive function. This approach can be further 
developed by expanding the dimensions included and testing the reproducibility 
and prospective prognostic value of the emerging classes. Developing a disease 
staging system for BD will allow individualised treatment planning for patients 
and selection of more homogeneous patient groups for research purposes.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2012.06.005
PMID: 22862890 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. J Exp Psychol Gen. 2013 Aug;142(3):944-53. doi: 10.1037/a0029560. Epub 2012 Aug 
6.

A route to well-being: intelligence versus wise reasoning.

Grossmann I(1), Na J, Varnum ME, Kitayama S, Nisbett RE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Waterloo, Waterloo, Ontario, Canada. 
igrossma@uwaterloo.ca

Laypeople and many social scientists assume that superior reasoning abilities 
lead to greater well-being. However, previous research has been inconclusive. 
This may be because prior investigators used operationalizations of reasoning 
that favored analytic as opposed to wise thinking. We assessed wisdom in terms 
of the degree to which people use various pragmatic schemas to deal with social 
conflicts. With a random sample of Americans, we found that wise reasoning is 
associated with greater life satisfaction, less negative affect, better social 
relationships, less depressive rumination, more positive versus negative words 
used in speech, and greater longevity. The relationship between wise reasoning 
and well-being held even when controlling for socioeconomic factors, verbal 
abilities, and several personality traits. As in prior work, there was no 
association between intelligence and well-being. Further, wise reasoning 
mediated age-related differences in well-being, particularly among middle-aged 
and older adults. Implications for research on reasoning, well-being, and aging 
are discussed.

PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2013 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/a0029560
PMCID: PMC3594053
PMID: 22866683 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. Epilepsy Res. 2013 Jan;103(1):83-7. doi: 10.1016/j.eplepsyres.2012.07.007. Epub 
2012 Aug 3.

Central TSC2 missense mutations are associated with a reduced risk of infantile 
spasms.

van Eeghen AM(1), Nellist M, van Eeghen EE, Thiele EA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Herscot Center for Tuberous Sclerosis Complex, 
Massachusetts General Hospital, 175 Cambridge Street, Suite 340, Boston, USA. 
elmervaneeghen@gmail.com

Tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) is an autosomal dominant syndrome with a 
variable neurocognitive phenotype. Recently, different intelligence profiles 
were observed for distinct mutation types and locations, suggesting that 
individuals with missense mutations represent a subgroup with milder 
neurocognitive outcomes. We applied these recent insights to the analysis of the 
epilepsy phenotype in a large cohort of patients with TSC. Associations between 
genotype and a history of epilepsy and/or infantile spasms (IS) were explored 
retrospectively, using data from 478 TSC patients from the databases of the 
Tuberous Sclerosis Alliance and the Herscot Center at Massachusetts General 
Hospital. Absolute and relative risks for IS and other types of epilepsy were 
calculated for various mutation classes, selected according to type and 
location. As expected, TSC2 mutations were associated with a significantly 
higher occurrence of IS and other epilepsy types. However, missense mutations 
located in the central region of TSC2 (exons 23-33) were associated with a 
significantly reduced incidence of IS. Our study further delineates the epilepsy 
phenotype in TSC patients. Identifying distinct epilepsy phenotypes for specific 
mutation subgroups may help identify relevant biomarkers and assist clinicians 
in making treatment decisions.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eplepsyres.2012.07.007
PMID: 22867869 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Psychol Res. 2013 Jul;77(4):508-15. doi: 10.1007/s00426-012-0446-8. Epub 2012 
Aug 7.

Attentional WM is not necessarily specifically related with fluid intelligence: 
the case of smart children with ADHD symptoms.

Cornoldi C(1), Giofrè D, Calgaro G, Stupiggia C.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Psychology, University of Padova, via Venezia 8, 35131 
Padua, Italy. cesare.cornoldi@unipd.it

Executive functions and, in particular, Attentional (active) Working Memory (WM) 
have been associated with fluid intelligence. The association contrasts with the 
hypothesis that children with ADHD exhibit problems with WM tasks requiring 
controlled attention and may have a good fluid intelligence. This paper examines 
whether children who are intelligent but present ADHD symptoms fail in 
attentional WM tasks. The latter result would be problematic for theories 
assuming the generality of a strict relationship between intelligence and WM. To 
study these issues, a battery of tests was administered to a group of 58 
children who all displayed symptoms of ADHD. All children were between the age 
of 8 and 11 years, and were described by their teachers as smart. Children were 
compared to a control group matched for age, schooling, and gender. The battery 
included a test of fluid intelligence (Raven's Coloured Matrices), and a series 
of visuospatial WM tasks. Results showed that children with ADHD were high in 
intelligence but significantly lower than the controls in WM tasks requiring 
high attentional control, whereas there was no difference in WM tasks requiring 
low attentional control. Furthermore, only high attentional control WM tasks 
were significantly related to Raven's performance in the control group, whereas 
all WM tasks were similarly related in the ADHD group. It is concluded that 
performance in high attentional control WM tasks may be related to fluid 
intelligence, but also to a specific control component that is independent of 
intelligence and is poor in children with ADHD.

DOI: 10.1007/s00426-012-0446-8
PMID: 22868655 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. J Neurol. 2013 Jan;260(1):214-20. doi: 10.1007/s00415-012-6620-5. Epub 2012 Aug 
9.

Paired associate learning in children with neurofibromatosis type 1: 
implications for clinical trials.

Payne JM(1), Barton B, Shores EA, North KN.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Neuroscience and Muscle Research, The Children's Hospital at 
Westmead, Locked Bag 4001, Westmead, Sydney, NSW, 2145, Australia. 
jonathan.payne@health.nsw.gov.au

Studies investigating behavior in mice with a heterozygous null mutation of the 
NF1 gene (Nf1 (+/-)) have provided critical insights into the molecular and 
cellular mechanisms underlying cognitive impairments associated with 
neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1). Hyperactivation of the Ras-MAPK signaling 
cascade, which results in increased GABA-mediated inhibition and significantly 
reduced long-term potentiation, has been proposed as a core mechanism underlying 
Nf1 (+/-) mice deficits in visuospatial learning and attention. This assertion 
has been reinforced by preclinical trials that reveal that these impairments can 
be rescued both at a cognitive and cellular level. We attempted to demonstrate a 
phenotypic parallel between Nf1 (+/-) mice and children with NF1 using a 
well-validated measure of visuospatial learning. Children with NF1 (n = 71) and 
healthy controls (n = 29) were assessed on a computerized paired associate 
learning task. Interrelationships between visuospatial learning and other 
cognitive abilities that may influence performance, such as intelligence, 
attention and visuospatial function, were explored. Children with NF1 displayed 
significant impairments in visuospatial learning, with reduced initial retention 
and poorer learning across repeated trials. Importantly, we demonstrated that 
visuospatial learning was inferior in NF1 even after accounting for group 
differences in intelligence, sustained attention and visuospatial abilities. We 
have thus identified impaired visuospatial learning as a core phenotypic feature 
in children with NF1. These findings imply that hippocampal-based learning 
networks are dysfunctional in children with NF1 and provide validation for a 
primary outcome measure for clinical trials aiming to correct aberrant Ras 
signaling.

DOI: 10.1007/s00415-012-6620-5
PMID: 22875098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Pharm Dev Technol. 2013 Feb;18(1):236-45. doi: 10.3109/10837450.2012.705294. 
Epub 2012 Aug 13.

A quality by design approach using artificial intelligence techniques to control 
the critical quality attributes of ramipril tablets manufactured by wet 
granulation.

Aksu B(1), Paradkar A, de Matas M, Özer Ö, Güneri T, York P.

Author information:
(1)Santa Farma Pharmaceuticals, Okmeydani, Borucicegi Sok. No:16 Sisli, Istanbul 
Turkey. baksu@santafarma.com.tr

Quality by design (QbD) is an essential part of the modern approach to 
pharmaceutical quality. This study was conducted in the framework of a QbD 
project involving ramipril tablets. Preliminary work included identification of 
the critical quality attributes (CQAs) and critical process parameters (CPPs) 
based on the quality target product profiles (QTPPs) using the historical data 
and risk assessment method failure mode and effect analysis (FMEA). Compendial 
and in-house specifications were selected as QTPPs for ramipril tablets. CPPs 
that affected the product and process were used to establish an experimental 
design. The results thus obtained can be used to facilitate definition of the 
design space using tools such as design of experiments (DoE), the response 
surface method (RSM) and artificial neural networks (ANNs). The project was 
aimed at discovering hidden knowledge associated with the manufacture of 
ramipril tablets using a range of artificial intelligence-based software, with 
the intention of establishing a multi-dimensional design space that ensures 
consistent product quality. At the end of the study, a design space was 
developed based on the study data and specifications, and a new formulation was 
optimized. On the basis of this formulation, a new laboratory batch formulation 
was prepared and tested. It was confirmed that the explored formulation was 
within the design space.

DOI: 10.3109/10837450.2012.705294
PMID: 22881350 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. Neuropharmacology. 2013 Jan;64:496-505. doi: 10.1016/j.neuropharm.2012.07.021. 
Epub 2012 Aug 1.

Objective and subjective cognitive enhancing effects of mixed amphetamine salts 
in healthy people.

Ilieva I(1), Boland J, Farah MJ.

Author information:
(1)University of Pennsylvania, PA, USA. iilieva@sas.upenn.edu

Psychostimulants such as mixed amphetamine salts (MAS, brand name Adderall) are 
widely used for cognitive enhancement by healthy young people, yet laboratory 
research on effectiveness has yielded variable results. The present study 
assessed the effects of MAS in healthy young adults with an adequately powered 
double-blind cross-over placebo-controlled trial. We examined effects in 13 
measures of cognitive ability including episodic memory, working memory, 
inhibitory control, convergent creativity, intelligence and scholastic 
achievement, with the goals of determining (1) whether the drug is at least 
moderately enhancing (Cohen's d >= .5) to some or all cognitive abilities 
tested, (2) whether its effects on cognition are moderated by baseline ability 
or COMT genotype, and (3) whether it induces an illusory perception of cognitive 
enhancement. The results did not reveal enhancement of any cognitive abilities 
by MAS for participants in general. There was a suggestion of moderation of 
enhancement by baseline ability and COMT genotype in a minority of tasks, with 
MAS enhancing lower ability participants on word recall, embedded figures and 
Raven's Progressive Matrices. Despite the lack of enhancement observed for most 
measures and most participants, participants nevertheless believed their 
performance was more enhanced by the active capsule than by placebo. We conclude 
that MAS has no more than small effects on cognition in healthy young adults, 
although users may perceive the drug as enhancing their cognition. This article 
is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Cognitive Enhancers'.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuropharm.2012.07.021
PMID: 22884611 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Dev Psychol. 2013 Jul;49(7):1396-406. doi: 10.1037/a0029559. Epub 2012 Aug 13.

"Life stage-specific" variations in performance in response to age stereotypes.

Hehman JA(1), Bugental DB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences, University of California, 
Santa Barbara, CA, USA. jessica_hehman@redlands.edu

In a test of life stage-specific responses to age-based stigma, older (n = 54, 
ages 62-92) and younger (n = 81, ages 17-22) adults were told that a task 
(Weschler Adult Intelligence Scale-III block design) required either (a) 
speed/contemporary knowledge (YA; "youth advantage") or (b) life 
experience/wisdom (OA; "age advantage"). In order to investigate the role of 
individuals' own perceptual biases in response to age-based stigma, participants 
also completed a measure of perceived personal control of their life outcomes. 
Older adults showed lower performance on the task as a result of the additive 
effects of (a) exposure to a negative age-relevant stereotype and (b) being 
under the perceived control of others. Younger adults, however, showed higher 
performance on the task as a result of exposure to a negative age-relevant 
stereotype (a stereotype challenge effect, disconfirming the stereotype)-but 
only if they saw themselves under the control of powerful others. The opposed 
responses of the 2 age groups are interpreted as reflecting (a) differences in 
the permanence of their group membership and (b) uniqueness of age-based stigma. 
To our knowledge, this is the first test of the effects of age-relevant 
stereotypes on younger adults.

DOI: 10.1037/a0029559
PMID: 22889391 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. IEEE Trans Cybern. 2013 Feb;43(1):385-93. doi: 10.1109/TSMCB.2012.2207951. Epub 
2012 Aug 6.

Rminimax: An Optimally Randomized MINIMAX Algorithm.

Díez SG, Laforge J, Saerens M.

This paper proposes a simple extension of the celebrated MINIMAX algorithm used 
in zero-sum two-player games, called Rminimax. The Rminimax algorithm allows 
controlling the strength of an artificial rival by randomizing its strategy in 
an optimal way. In particular, the randomized shortest-path framework is applied 
for biasing the artificial intelligence (AI) adversary toward worse or better 
solutions, therefore controlling its strength. In other words, our model aims at 
introducing/implementing bounded rationality to the MINIMAX algorithm. This 
framework takes into account all possible strategies by computing an optimal 
tradeoff between exploration (quantified by the entropy spread in the tree) and 
exploitation (quantified by the expected cost to an end game) of the game tree. 
As opposed to other tree-exploration techniques, this new algorithm considers 
complete paths of a tree (strategies) where a given entropy is spread. The 
optimal randomized strategy is efficiently computed by means of a simple 
recurrence relation while keeping the same complexity as the original MINIMAX. 
As a result, the Rminimax implements a nondeterministic strength-adapted AI 
opponent for board games in a principled way, thus avoiding the assumption of 
complete rationality. Simulations on two common games show that Rminimax behaves 
as expected.

DOI: 10.1109/TSMCB.2012.2207951
PMID: 22893439


84. Psychol Med. 2013 May;43(5):1093-107. doi: 10.1017/S0033291712001869. Epub 2012 
Aug 15.

Disturbed microstructural integrity of the frontostriatal fiber pathways and 
executive dysfunction in children with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder.

Shang CY(1), Wu YH, Gau SS, Tseng WY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, National Taiwan University Hospital and College of 
Medicine, Taipei, Taiwan.

BACKGROUND: Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is recognized as an 
early-onset neuropsychiatric disorder with executive dysfunctions and 
neurobiological deficits. The authors compared executive functions and 
microstructural integrity of the frontostriatal circuit in children with ADHD 
and typically developing children. Method We assessed 25 children with ADHD and 
25 age-, sex-, handedness- and intelligence-matched typically developing 
children by using psychiatric interviews, the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for 
Children - third edition, and the tasks involving executive functions in the 
Cambridge Neuropsychological Test Automated Battery. The frontostriatal tracts 
were reconstructed by diffusion spectrum imaging tractography and were 
subdivided into four functionally distinct segments, including dorsolateral, 
medial prefrontal, orbitofrontal and ventrolateral tracts. Tract-specific and 
matched case-control analyses were used and generalized fractional anisotropy 
values were computed.
RESULTS: Children with ADHD had lower generalized fractional anisotropy of all 
the bilateral frontostriatal fiber tracts and poorer performance in verbal and 
spatial working memory, set-shifting, sustained attention, cognitive inhibition 
and visuospatial planning. The symptom severity of ADHD and the executive 
functioning performance significantly correlated with integrity of the 
frontostriatal tracts, particularly the left orbitofrontal and ventrolateral 
tracts. Children with ADHD also demonstrated loss of the leftward asymmetry in 
the dorsolateral and medial prefrontal tracts that was present in typically 
developing children.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings demonstrate disturbed structural connectivity of the 
frontostriatal circuitry in children with ADHD and add new evidence of 
associations between integrity of the frontostriatal tracts and measures of core 
symptoms of ADHD and a wide range of executive dysfunctions in both groups.

DOI: 10.1017/S0033291712001869
PMID: 22894768 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. J Child Neurol. 2013 Jul;28(7):874-85. doi: 10.1177/0883073812452917. Epub 2012 
Aug 16.

Global cerebral and regional multimodal neuroimaging markers of the neurobiology 
of autism: development and cognition.

Hasan KM(1), Walimuni IS, Frye RE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Diagnostic and Interventional Imaging, University of Texas 
Health Science Center, Houston, TX 77030, USA. Khader.M.Hasan@uth.tmc.edu

Quantitative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies of the microstructure and 
macrostructure in children with autism report contradictory results due, in 
part, to the autistic population heterogeneity from factors such as variation in 
intellect and inadequately accounting for age-related changes in brain 
development. In this report, the authors compared global and regional volumetry, 
relaxometry, anisotropy, and diffusometry of gray and white matter in 10 autism 
spectrum disorder children relative to the age-related trajectories obtained 
from 38 typically developing controls while controlling for nonverbal intellect 
using a validated quantitative MRI method. The normalized hippocampus volume 
increased with age in both autistic and typically developing individuals with 
limbic structures larger in autistic patients. Hippocampus volume, but not 
diffusivity or relaxation time, was larger in autistic children. Hippocampus 
volume was inversely correlated with nonverbal intellect across control 
individuals. The pattern of hippocampal abnormalities suggests a disturbance in 
early brain development in autistic children independent of intellect.

DOI: 10.1177/0883073812452917
PMID: 22899798 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. J Neurol. 2013 Feb;260(2):445-53. doi: 10.1007/s00415-012-6650-z. Epub 2012 Aug 
18.

Neuropsychological profile of adult patients with nonsymptomatic occipital lobe 
epilepsies.

Bilo L(1), Santangelo G, Improta I, Vitale C, Meo R, Trojano L.

Author information:
(1)Epilepsy Center, Department of Neurological Sciences, University "Federico 
II", Naples, Italy.

To explore the neuropsychological and neurobehavioral profile in adult patients 
affected by nonsymptomatic (cryptogenic and idiopathic) occipital lobe epilepsy 
(OLE), with normal intelligence, we enrolled 20 adult patients with 
nonsymptomatic OLE and 20 age-, sex-, and education-matched healthy subjects. 
All participants underwent neuropsychiatric assessment scales, and standardized 
neuropsychological tests tapping memory, executive functions, constructional, 
visuospatial and visuoperceptual skills. After Bonferroni correction for 
multiple comparisons, patients performed significantly worse than controls on 
several tests tapping complex visuospatial skills and frontal lobe functions. 
The analysis of single patients' performance revealed that a significantly 
higher number of OLE patients achieved age- and education-adjusted pathological 
scores on three tests (Benton Judgment of Line Orientation Test, Freehand 
Copying of Drawings Test, color-word interference task of Stroop test) with 
respect to controls. Patients did not differ from control subjects on 
neuropsychiatric aspects. The direct comparison between OLE subtypes showed that 
cryptogenetic OLE patients tended to achieve lower scores than idiopathic OLE 
patients on most tests, but no difference between the two groups was fully 
significant. In summary, patients with nonsymptomatic OLE can be affected by 
clinically relevant impairments in selected neuropsychological domains: complex 
visuospatial skills and executive functions. It could be speculated that frontal 
and visuospatial cognitive deficits might be the result of epileptic activity 
spreading within a neural network that includes structures far beyond the 
occipital lobe.

DOI: 10.1007/s00415-012-6650-z
PMID: 22903808 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Psychol Bull. 2013 Jan;139(1):1-34. doi: 10.1037/a0029321. Epub 2012 Aug 20.

The impact of pretend play on children's development: a review of the evidence.

Lillard AS(1), Lerner MD, Hopkins EJ, Dore RA, Smith ED, Palmquist CM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA 22904, 
USA. Lillard@virginia.edu

Comment in
    Psychol Bull. 2013 Jan;139(1):35-9.
    Psychol Bull. 2013 Jan;139(1):40-4.
    Psychol Bull. 2013 Jan;139(1):45-8.

Pretend play has been claimed to be crucial to children's healthy development. 
Here we examine evidence for this position versus 2 alternatives: Pretend play 
is 1 of many routes to positive developments (equifinality), and pretend play is 
an epiphenomenon of other factors that drive development. Evidence from several 
domains is considered. For language, narrative, and emotion regulation, the 
research conducted to date is consistent with all 3 positions but insufficient 
to draw conclusions. For executive function and social skills, existing research 
leans against the crucial causal position but is insufficient to differentiate 
the other 2. For reasoning, equifinality is definitely supported, ruling out a 
crucially causal position but still leaving open the possibility that pretend 
play is epiphenomenal. For problem solving, there is no compelling evidence that 
pretend play helps or is even a correlate. For creativity, intelligence, 
conservation, and theory of mind, inconsistent correlational results from sound 
studies and nonreplication with masked experimenters are problematic for a 
causal position, and some good studies favor an epiphenomenon position in which 
child, adult, and environment characteristics that go along with play are the 
true causal agents. We end by considering epiphenomenalism more deeply and 
discussing implications for preschool settings and further research in this 
domain. Our take-away message is that existing evidence does not support strong 
causal claims about the unique importance of pretend play for development and 
that much more and better research is essential for clarifying its possible 
role.

(PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2013 APA, all rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/a0029321
PMID: 22905949 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. J Psychiatry Neurosci. 2013 Mar;38(2):129-37. doi: 10.1503/jpn.120039.

Morphometric differences in central stress-regulating structures between women 
with and without borderline personality disorder.

Kuhlmann A(1), Bertsch K, Schmidinger I, Thomann PA, Herpertz SC.

Author information:
(1)Department for General Psychiatry, University Hospital Heidelberg, 
Heidelberg, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Experiences of early life stress, increased psychological arousal 
and the body's physiologic stress response seem to play an important role in the 
pathogenesis and maintenance of borderline personality disorder (BPD). In the 
present study, we investigated alterations in grey matter of central 
stress-regulating structures in female patients with BPD.
METHODS: We examined T1-weighted structural magnetic resonance imaging scans of 
unmedicated, right-handed female patients with BPD (according to DSM-IV 
criteria) and healthy controls matched for age, intelligence and education using 
fully automated DARTEL voxel-based morphometry. Our regions of interest analyses 
included the hippocampus, amygdala, anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) and 
hypothalamus.
RESULTS: We enrolled 30 patients and 33 controls in our study. The grey matter 
of patients with BPD was reduced in the hippocampus, but increased in the 
hypothalamus compared with healthy participants. Hypothalamic volume correlated 
positively with the history of traumatization in patients with BPD. No 
significant alterations were found in the amygdala and ACC.
LIMITATIONS: This study is limited by the lack of measures of 
corticotropin-releasing hormone, adrenocorticotropic hormone and cortisol 
levels. Furthermore, moderate sample size and comorbid disorders need to be 
considered.
CONCLUSION: Our findings provide new evidence for grey matter alterations in the 
hypothalamus and replicate previously reported decrements in hippocampal volume 
in patients with BPD. Understanding the role of the hypothalamus and other 
central stress-regulating structures could help us to further understand the 
neurobiological underpinnings of this complex disorder.

DOI: 10.1503/jpn.120039
PMCID: PMC3581593
PMID: 22909445 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. Pediatr Pulmonol. 2013 Apr;48(4):381-9. doi: 10.1002/ppul.22653. Epub 2012 Aug 
21.

Multiple system morbidities associated with children with snore symptom.

Cai XH(1), Li XC, Hu QQ, Yu CY, Zhou YH, Su MS, Zhao YP, Hu YL, Wang LX.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, The Second Affiliated Hospital and Yuying 
Children's Hospital of Wenzhou Medical College, Wenzhou 325027, China. 
caixh839@sina.com

OBJECTIVE: To exam the relationship between snoring and morbidities of multiple 
systems in children.
STUDY DESIGN: Children with snoring were enrolled and divided into primary 
snorer (PS) group and obstructive sleep apnea hypopnea syndrome (OSAHS) group 
based on polysomnography. The healthy children served as the control group. The 
growth parameters, maxillofacial malformations, blood chemistry, 
electrocardiogram, and echocardiogram were recorded and intelligence testing was 
performed in the enrolled children who were ≥6 years old.
RESULTS: The weight and height were similar in the control group (n = 60) and 
the PS group (n = 63), but lower in the OSAHS group (n = 89; P < 0.001). 
Occurrence of adenoidal face and dental malocclusion in the OSAHS and the PS 
group was significantly higher than that in the control group (P < 0.001). 
Compared with the control group, the OSAHS group had a lower serum high-density 
lipoprotein cholesterol level, higher low-density lipoprotein cholesterol level; 
and a possible higher pulmonary artery pressure based on the echocardiogram 
(P < 0.001). All the above parameters in the PS group were similar to those in 
the control group. Full-scale IQ and performance IQ of the OSAHS group was lower 
(P < 0.001), attention deficits were significantly higher in the OSAHS group 
(P < 0.001), but were similar in the PS group when compared to the control 
group.
CONCLUSIONS: OSAHS in children is associated with delayed growth, maxillofacial 
malformations, impaired cognitive functions, abnormalities in lipid metabolism, 
and changes in pulmonary artery pressures. PS children also have higher 
incidence of maxillofacial malformations but have a normal growth and normal 
cognitive functions.

Copyright © 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ppul.22653
PMID: 22911964 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. Matern Child Health J. 2013 Sep;17(7):1243-51. doi: 10.1007/s10995-012-1121-9.

Determinants of cognitive development of low SES children in Chile: a 
post-transitional country with rising childhood obesity rates.

Galván M(1), Uauy R, Corvalán C, López-Rodríguez G, Kain J.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Nutrition and Food Technology, University of Chile, Santiago, 
Chile. mgalvan73@hotmail.com

Studies conducted in developing countries have noted associations between 
concurrent stunting, social-emotional problems and poor cognitive ability in 
young children. However, the relative contribution of these variables in Latin 
America is likely changing as undernutrition rates decline and prevalence of 
childhood obesity rises. We conducted a cross-sectional study of 106 
normal-weight and 109 obese preschool children to compare the relative 
contribution of early nutrition, sociodemographic factors and psychosocial 
variables on cognitive development in normal-weight and obese preschool children 
in Chile. The study variables were categorized as: (1) socio-demographic (age, 
sex, birth order and socioeconomic) (2) early nutrition (maternal height, birth 
weight, birth length and height at 5 years) (3) psychosocial factors (maternal 
depression, social-emotional wellbeing and home space sufficiency). In order to 
assess determinants of cognitive development at 4-5 years we measured 
intelligence quotient (IQ); variability in normal children was mostly explained 
by socio-demographic characteristics (r(2) = 0.26), while in obese children 
early nutritional factors had a significant effect (r(2) = 0.12) beyond 
socio-demographic factors (r(2) = 0.19). Normal-weight children, who were first 
born, of slightly better SES and height Z score >1, had an IQ ≥ 6 points greater 
than their counterparts (p < 0.05). Obese children who were first born with 
birth weight >4,000 g and low risk of socio-emotional problems had on average ≥5 
IQ points greater than their peers (p < 0.05). We conclude that in Chile, a 
post-transitional country, IQ variability of normal children was mostly 
explained by socio-demographic characteristics; while in obese children, early 
nutrition also played a significant role.

DOI: 10.1007/s10995-012-1121-9
PMID: 22915146 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. Forensic Sci Int Genet. 2013 Jan;7(1):98-115. doi: 10.1016/j.fsigen.2012.07.005. 
Epub 2012 Aug 20.

The HIrisPlex system for simultaneous prediction of hair and eye colour from 
DNA.

Walsh S(1), Liu F, Wollstein A, Kovatsi L, Ralf A, Kosiniak-Kamysz A, Branicki 
W, Kayser M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Forensic Molecular Biology, Erasmus MC University Medical 
Centre Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

Recently, the field of predicting phenotypes of externally visible 
characteristics (EVCs) from DNA genotypes with the final aim of concentrating 
police investigations to find persons completely unknown to investigating 
authorities, also referred to as Forensic DNA Phenotyping (FDP), has started to 
become established in forensic biology. We previously developed and forensically 
validated the IrisPlex system for accurate prediction of blue and brown eye 
colour from DNA, and recently showed that all major hair colour categories are 
predictable from carefully selected DNA markers. Here, we introduce the newly 
developed HIrisPlex system, which is capable of simultaneously predicting both 
hair and eye colour from DNA. HIrisPlex consists of a single multiplex assay 
targeting 24 eye and hair colour predictive DNA variants including all 6 
IrisPlex SNPs, as well as two prediction models, a newly developed model for 
hair colour categories and shade, and the previously developed IrisPlex model 
for eye colour. The HIrisPlex assay was designed to cope with low amounts of 
template DNA, as well as degraded DNA, and preliminary sensitivity testing 
revealed full DNA profiles down to 63pg input DNA. The power of the HIrisPlex 
system to predict hair colour was assessed in 1551 individuals from three 
different parts of Europe showing different hair colour frequencies. Using a 20% 
subset of individuals, while 80% were used for model building, the 
individual-based prediction accuracies employing a prediction-guided approach 
were 69.5% for blond, 78.5% for brown, 80% for red and 87.5% for black hair 
colour on average. Results from HIrisPlex analysis on worldwide DNA samples 
imply that HIrisPlex hair colour prediction is reliable independent of 
bio-geographic ancestry (similar to previous IrisPlex findings for eye colour). 
We furthermore demonstrate that it is possible to infer with a prediction 
accuracy of >86% if a brown-eyed, black-haired individual is of non-European 
(excluding regions nearby Europe) versus European (including nearby regions) 
bio-geographic origin solely from the strength of HIrisPlex eye and hair colour 
probabilities, which can provide extra intelligence for future forensic 
applications. The HIrisPlex system introduced here, including a single multiplex 
test assay, an interactive tool and prediction guide, and recommendations for 
reporting final outcomes, represents the first tool for simultaneously 
establishing categorical eye and hair colour of a person from DNA. The practical 
forensic application of the HIrisPlex system is expected to benefit cases where 
other avenues of investigation, including STR profiling, provide no leads on who 
the unknown crime scene sample donor or the unknown missing person might be.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fsigen.2012.07.005
PMID: 22917817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. Autism. 2013 Nov;17(6):723-35. doi: 10.1177/1362361312453882. Epub 2012 Aug 23.

The association of quality of social relations, symptom severity and 
intelligence with anxiety in children with autism spectrum disorders.

Eussen ML(1), Van Gool AR, Verheij F, De Nijs PF, Verhulst FC, Greaves-Lord K.

Author information:
(1)Yulius Mental Health, the Netherlands.

Limited quality of social relations, milder symptom severity and higher 
intelligence were shown to account for higher anxiety levels in autism spectrum 
disorders. The current study replicated and extended earlier findings by 
combining these three determinants of anxiety in autism spectrum disorders in 
one study. The sample consisted of 134 school-aged children with autism spectrum 
disorders, of whom 58 (43%) had a co-morbid anxiety disorder according to the 
Diagnostic Interview Schedule for Children-Parent version. In this sample, we 
tested associations between these determinants and anxiety univariately and 
multivariately to clarify the unique contribution of all determinants. Since we 
hypothesized that the association between limited quality of social relations 
and anxiety would be amplified by low symptom severity and/or high intelligence, 
we additionally tested for moderating effects. We found that higher anxiety 
levels were associated with a lower quality of social relations and lower 
symptom severity. In this mainly high-functioning sample, intelligence was not 
related to anxiety levels. No moderation effects were found. Since lower quality 
of social relations and lower symptom severity are associated with higher 
anxiety levels in children with autism spectrum disorders, therapeutic 
interventions aimed at reducing anxiety in autism spectrum disorders should pay 
attention to improving social relations, and presumably children with a lower 
symptom severity could benefit most from such interventions.

DOI: 10.1177/1362361312453882
PMID: 22917843 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Dev Med Child Neurol. 2013 Feb;55(2):111-125. doi: 
10.1111/j.1469-8749.2012.04399.x. Epub 2012 Aug 31.

Behaviour in children with neurofibromatosis type 1: cognition, executive 
function, attention, emotion, and social competence.

Lehtonen A(1), Howie E(2), Trump D(1), Huson SM(1).

Author information:
(1) Genetic Medicine, St Mary's Hospital, Manchester Academic Health Science 
Centre, University of Manchester.
(2) Paediatric Psychosocial Department, Royal Manchester Children's Hospital, 
Manchester Academic Health Science Centre, Manchester, UK.

AIM: This systematic review aimed to pull together the findings from research 
into behavioural systems and attention in children with neurofibromatosis type 1 
(NF1) and to identify areas that need further study.
METHOD: Relevant papers were identified through searches of electronic databases 
(MEDLINE, PsycINFO, EMBASE) and manual searches through reference lists. In 
total, 5746 articles were identified and 57 met the inclusion criteria. The data 
were synthesized using the narrative approach, as the studies varied 
considerably in terms of participants and measures.
RESULTS: The results of the review showed that intelligence, academic skills, 
visuospatial skills, social competence, and attention are impaired in children 
with NF1. Evidence of deficits in memory, motor functioning, language, and 
executive functions was less clear.
INTERPRETATION: Research has made marked progress in outlining the behavioural 
phenotype of NF1. However, although the general areas of impairment are becoming 
better known, the exact nature of the impairment is still not understood in many 
areas of behaviour. Care needs to be taken with the way in which behavioural 
constructs are defined and measured, and the variability of problems in NF1 is a 
particular challenge. Nevertheless, research is steadily moving towards 
comprehensive understanding of behaviour in children with NF1.

© The Authors. Developmental Medicine & Child Neurology © 2012 Mac Keith Press.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1469-8749.2012.04399.x
PMID: 22934576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. Psychooncology. 2013 Jul;22(7):1509-16. doi: 10.1002/pon.3159. Epub 2012 Sep 4.

Cognitive functioning in allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation 
recipients and its medical correlates: a prospective multicenter study.

Scherwath A(1), Schirmer L, Kruse M, Ernst G, Eder M, Dinkel A, Kunze S, Balck 
F, Bornhäuser M, Ehninger G, Dolan K, Gramatzki M, Kolb HJ, Heußner P, Wilhelm 
H, Beelen DW, Schulz-Kindermann F, Zander AR, Koch U, Mehnert A.

Author information:
(1)Department and Outpatient Clinic of Medical Psychology, University Medical 
Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Owing to its neurotoxicity, allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell 
transplantation (HSCT) carries risks for cognitive impairment. In this 
multicenter study, we prospectively evaluated cognitive functioning and its 
medical and demographic correlates in patients undergoing allogeneic HSCT.
METHODS: A total of 102 patients were consecutively assessed prior to (T0 ), 100 
± 20 days (T1 ) after, and 12 ± 1 months (T2 ) after HSCT (61% men, 41% acute 
myeloid leukemia). A comprehensive neuropsychological test battery was applied 
to evaluate attention, memory, executive function, and fine motor function, 
summing up into 14 test scores.
RESULTS: Before and after HSCT, patients performed below test norms in up to 50% 
of the test scores. Patients were mostly impaired on word fluency (24%, T0 ), 
fine motor function, and verbal delayed recall (19% each, T2 ). Impairment on ≥ 
1/5 cognitive domains occurred in 47% (T0 ) and 41% (T2 ) of the patients. 
Performance (mean z-scores) partially improved over time (i.e., visual span 
forward, verbal learning, and word fluency). However, from baseline to T2 , 16% 
of the patients showed reliable decline on ≥ 3/14 test scores (reliable change 
index method). For the majority of neuropsychological subtests, no associations 
with conditioning intensity, total body irradiation, graft-versus-host disease, 
cyclosporine treatment, and length of hospital stay were found. Age and 
premorbid intelligence level were consistently associated with cognition.
CONCLUSIONS: Below average cognitive performance is common in this patient 
group. In addition, a subgroup shows reliable cognitive decline after allogeneic 
HSCT. Healthcare professionals should be aware of these treatment-related 
cognitive side effects.

Copyright © 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/pon.3159
PMID: 22945857 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Dev Psychol. 2013 Jul;49(7):1253-65. doi: 10.1037/a0029871. Epub 2012 Sep 3.

The typical developmental trajectory of social and executive functions in late 
adolescence and early adulthood.

Taylor SJ(1), Barker LA, Heavey L, McHale S.

Author information:
(1)Brain, Behaviour and Cognition Group, Department of Psychology, Sociology and 
Politics, Sheffield Hallam University, Sheffield, England. s.j.taylor@shu.ac.uk

Executive functions and social cognition develop through childhood into 
adolescence and early adulthood and are important for adaptive goal-oriented 
behavior (Apperly, Samson, & Humphreys, 2009; Blakemore & Choudhury, 2006). 
These functions are attributed to frontal networks known to undergo protracted 
maturation into early adulthood (Barker, Andrade, Morton, Romanowski, & Bowles, 
2010; Lebel, Walker, Leemans, Phillips, & Beaulieu, 2008), although social 
cognition functions are also associated with widely distributed networks. 
Previously, nonlinear development has been reported around puberty on an emotion 
match-to-sample task (McGivern, Andersen, Byrd, Mutter, & Reilly, 2002) and for 
IQ in midadolescence (Ramsden et al., 2011). However, there are currently little 
data on the typical development of social and executive functions in late 
adolescence and early adulthood. In a cross-sectional design, 98 participants 
completed tests of social cognition and executive function, Wechsler Abbreviated 
Scale of Intelligence (Wechsler, 1999), Positive and Negative Affect Schedule 
(Watson, Clark, & Tellegen, 1988), Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale 
(Zigmond & Snaith, 1983), and measures of pubertal development and demographics 
at ages 17, 18, and 19. Nonlinear age differences for letter fluency and concept 
formation executive functions were found, with a trough in functional ability in 
18-year-olds compared with other groups. There were no age group differences on 
social cognition measures. Gender accounted for differences on 1 scale of 
concept formation, 1 dynamic social interaction scale, and 2 empathy scales. The 
clinical, developmental, and educational implications of these findings are 
discussed.

DOI: 10.1037/a0029871
PMID: 22946438 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Int J Psychol. 2013;48(5):785-96. doi: 10.1080/00207594.2012.716906. Epub 2012 
Sep 4.

Malawian secondary students' beliefs about intelligence.

Jones BD(1), Rakes L, Landon K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Learning Sciences and Technologies, Virginia Tech, Blacksburg, 
VA, USA. brettjones@vt.edu

Students who view intelligence as malleable tend to be more academically 
motivated and perform at higher levels than students who view it as a fixed 
trait. We examined the beliefs of students from Malawi because the culture and 
schooling process in this country is very different from some other areas of the 
world in which students' views of intelligence have already been studied. Our 
research questions were: (1) How do Malawian students define intelligence? (2) 
To what extent do Malawian students view intelligence as malleable? (3) Are 
Malawian students' definitions of intelligence and beliefs about the 
malleability of intelligence similar to those of students in more developed 
countries? We conducted a mixed methods study and surveyed 136 students 
attending a secondary school in Malawi using a 39-item questionnaire. Students 
responded to questions about their intelligence beliefs on open- and 
closed-ended items. Our results showed that Malawian students believe that an 
intelligent student exhibits a variety of behaviors, including studying, working 
hard, reading, performing well on exams and in class, answering and asking 
questions, paying attention, and demonstrating good behavior. Most students 
believe that intelligence is malleable and provided responses that indicated 
that students can become more intelligent through effort. When compared to the 
findings of other studies, the present results suggest that the Malawian 
students who remain in secondary school have definitions of intelligence and 
beliefs about the malleability of intelligence that are similar to those of 
students in more developed countries, such as the US and Germany. In fact, it 
appears that Malawian secondary students have even higher malleable beliefs than 
American and German students. Finally, some of the measures that have been found 
to produce scores that are reliable and valid in other populations do not 
produce scores that are as reliable when used with Malawian students.

DOI: 10.1080/00207594.2012.716906
PMID: 22946644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. Child Neuropsychol. 2013;19(6):662-70. doi: 10.1080/09297049.2012.723681. Epub 
2012 Sep 6.

Development of an eight-subtest short form of the WISC-IV and evaluation of its 
clinical utility in children with traumatic brain injury.

Donders J(1), Elzinga B, Kuipers D, Helder E, Crawford JR.

Author information:
(1)a Psychology Service, Mary Free Bed Rehabilitation Hospital , Grand Rapids , 
Michigan , USA.

This study evaluated the degree to which an 8-subtest short form of the Wechsler 
Intelligence Scale for Children--Fourth Edition would yield acceptable estimates 
of the long-form Full-Scale IQ index while clarifying the underlying factor 
structure in a sample of 100 children and adolescents with traumatic brain 
injury. The short-form Full-Scale IQ had sufficient (i.e., at least two thirds) 
nonerror covariance with its full-length counterpart. In addition, a sufficient 
proportion (i.e., > 80%) of these short-form estimates fell within the 90% 
confidence interval of the respective full-length scores. Importantly, the 
elimination of 2 subtests, and in particular the Picture Concepts subtest, 
resulted in a factor structure where each remaining subtest was fairly 
specifically associated with its intended scale. It is concluded that this short 
form can be used clinically in children with traumatic brain injury without 
sacrificing reliability and with more straightforward interpretability at the 
level of the factor index scores.

DOI: 10.1080/09297049.2012.723681
PMID: 22950806 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. Aging Ment Health. 2013;17(2):242-9. doi: 10.1080/13607863.2012.717256. Epub 
2012 Sep 10.

Associations between higher-level competence and general intelligence in 
community-dwelling older adults.

Moriya S(1), Tei K, Miura H, Inoue N, Yokoyama T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Promotion, National Institute of Public Health, Saitama, 
Japan. shyomi@niph.go.jp

OBJECTIVES: Higher-level competence is crucial for healthy and socially 
independent living, and general intelligence may underlie heath status. The aim 
of this study was to elucidate associations between general intelligence and 
higher-level competence in elderly individuals without dementia.
METHODS: A total of 207 community-dwelling elderly persons, aged 70-74 years, 
were enrolled. A personal interview was performed to obtain data on 
socio-demographic and medical factors; higher-level competence was evaluated 
using the Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Gerontology index of competence (TMIG 
index). Raven's Coloured Progressive Matrices (RCPM) test was used to assess 
general intelligence. Correlations between the TMIG index, its subscale scores 
and the RCPM score were evaluated by Spearman's rank correlation coefficients. 
Ordinal regression models were conducted with the TMIG index and its subscales 
as the dependent variables, RCPM as the principal independent variable, and age, 
sex, type of household, employment status, educational background, chronic 
medical conditions and number of natural teeth as the potential independent 
variables.
RESULTS: There were significant but weak positive correlations between total 
score on the TMIG index, scores on the intellectual activity and social role 
subscales and RCPM score. In ordinal regression models, RCPM and educational 
background were significantly associated with total score on the TMIG index and 
the intellectual activity subscale, and only RCPM was associated with the social 
role subscale score, after adjusting for other potential variables.
CONCLUSION: General intelligence may be significantly associated with 
higher-level competence, especially with intellectual activity and social role 
subscales, in community-dwelling older adults.

DOI: 10.1080/13607863.2012.717256
PMID: 22962852 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. Child Dev. 2013 Jan-Feb;84(1):154-62. doi: 10.1111/j.1467-8624.2012.01849.x. 
Epub 2012 Sep 13.

Systems and cascades in cognitive development and academic achievement.

Bornstein MH(1), Hahn CS, Wolke D.

Author information:
(1)Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human 
Development. Marc_H_Bornstein@nih.gov

A large-scale (N = 552) controlled multivariate prospective 14-year longitudinal 
study of a developmental cascade embedded in a developmental system showed that 
information-processing efficiency in infancy (4 months), general mental 
development in toddlerhood (18 months), behavior difficulties in early childhood 
(36 months), psychometric intelligence in middle childhood (8 years), and 
maternal education either directly or indirectly (or both) contribute to 
academic achievement in adolescence (14 years).

© 2012 The Authors. Child Development © 2012 Society for Research in Child 
Development, Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-8624.2012.01849.x
PMCID: PMC3525805
PMID: 22974268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. Psychol Med. 2013 Jun;43(6):1293-301. doi: 10.1017/S0033291712001997. Epub 2012 
Sep 14.

Early motor developmental milestones and level of neuroticism in young 
adulthood: a 23-year follow-up study of the Copenhagen Perinatal Cohort.

Flensborg-Madsen T(1), Sørensen HJ, Revsbech R, Mortensen EL.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Public Health, University of Southern Denmark, 
Copenhagen, Denmark. tfm@niph.dk

BACKGROUND: Studies investigating early developmental factors in relation to 
psychopathology have mainly focused on schizophrenia. The personality dimension 
of neuroticism seems to be a general risk factor for psychopathology, but 
evidence on associations between early developmental precursors and personality 
traits is almost non-existent. This study is therefore the first to investigate 
associations between early motor developmental milestones and neuroticism in 
adulthood. Method Mothers of 9125 children of the Copenhagen Perinatal Cohort 
recorded 12 developmental milestones during the child's first year of life. A 
subsample of the cohort comprising 1182 individuals participated in a follow-up 
when they were aged 20-34 years and were administered the Eysenck Personality 
Questionnaire (EPQ). Associations between motor developmental milestones and 
level of neuroticism, extraversion and psychoticism were analysed by multiple 
linear regression adjusting for for sex, single-mother status, parity, mother's 
age, father's age, parental social status and birth weight.
RESULTS: Among the 1182 participants with information on the EPQ, information on 
milestones was available for 968 participants. Infants who developed high levels 
of neuroticism as adults tended to sit without support, crawl, and walk with and 
without support significantly later than individuals with low levels of 
neuroticism (p values <0.05). These results remained significant after 
adjustment for the included covariates and for adult intelligence.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings are the first of their kind and suggest that delays in 
early motor development may not only characterize psychopathological disorders 
such as schizophrenia, but may also be associated with the personality dimension 
of neuroticism in adulthood.

DOI: 10.1017/S0033291712001997
PMID: 22975250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. Psychol Assess. 2013 Mar;25(1):157-66. doi: 10.1037/a0029828. Epub 2012 Sep 17.

Multigroup confirmatory factor analysis of U.S. and Italian children's 
performance on the PASS theory of intelligence as measured by the Cognitive 
Assessment System.

Naglieri JA(1), Taddei S, Williams KM.

Author information:
(1)Curry School of Education, University of Virginia, USA. jnaglieri@gmail.com

This study examined Italian and U.S. children's performance on the English and 
Italian versions, respectively, of the Cognitive Assessment System (CAS; 
Naglieri & Conway, 2009; Naglieri & Das, 1997), a test based on a neurocognitive 
theory of intelligence entitled PASS (Planning, Attention, Simultaneous, and 
Successive; Naglieri & Das, 1997; Naglieri & Otero, 2011). CAS subtest, PASS 
scales, and Full Scale scores for Italian (N=809) and U.S. (N=1,174) samples, 
matched by age and gender, were examined. Multigroup confirmatory factor 
analysis results supported the configural invariance of the CAS factor structure 
between Italians and Americans for the 5- to 7-year-old (root-mean-square error 
of approximation [RMSEA]=.038; 90% confidence interval [CI]=.033, .043; 
comparative fit index [CFI]=.96) and 8- to 18-year-old (RMSEA=.036; 90% CI=.028, 
.043; CFI=.97) age groups. The Full Scale standard scores (using the U.S. norms) 
for the Italian (100.9) and U.S. (100.5) samples were nearly identical. The 
scores between the samples for the PASS scales were very similar, except for the 
Attention Scale (d=0.26), where the Italian sample's mean score was slightly 
higher. Negligible mean differences were found for 9 of the 13 subtest scores, 3 
showed small d-ratios (2 in favor of the Italian sample), and 1 was large (in 
favor of the U.S. sample), but some differences in subtest variances were found. 
These findings suggest that the PASS theory, as measured by CAS, yields similar 
mean scores and showed factorial invariance for these samples of Italian and 
American children, who differ on cultural and linguistic characteristics.

PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2013 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/a0029828
PMID: 22984802 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. Psychiatry Res. 2013 Mar 30;206(1):8-16. doi: 10.1016/j.psychres.2012.08.025. 
Epub 2012 Sep 15.

Working memory as a predictor of negative symptoms and functional outcome in 
first episode psychosis.

González-Ortega I(1), de Los Mozos V, Echeburúa E, Mezo M, Besga A, Ruiz de Azúa 
S, González-Pinto A, Gutierrez M, Zorrilla I, González-Pinto A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Alava University Hospital-Santiago, Department of 
Neurosciences, University of the Basque Country, CIBERSAM, Vitoria, Spain. 
itxaso.gonzalezortega@osakidetza.net

The relationship of neurocognitive course with clinical and functional outcomes 
in psychosis is not well known, especially in the long term. The aim of the 
study was to examine the clinical and neuropsychological course of first-episode 
psychosis patients at 5-year follow-up and analyze the relationship of cognitive 
performance with clinical and functional outcome. The 5-year follow-up was 
conducted with 26 first-episode psychosis patients. Psychotic symptoms were 
measured by the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale, manic and depressive 
symptoms by the Young Mania Rating Scale and Hamilton Depression Rating Scale 
respectively, and psychosocial functioning by the Functioning Assessment Short 
Test. The cognitive domains were assessed by the Wechsler Adult Intelligence 
Scale, the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test, the Trail Making Test, the Verbal 
Fluency Test, the Stroop Colour-Word Test and the Wechsler Memory Scale. 
Patients showed symptomatic improvement in the follow-up except in negative 
psychotic symptoms. There was also improvement in most cognitive domains except 
in working memory and processing speed in the follow-up. Working memory 
impairment was associated to negative psychotic symptoms and poor functional 
outcomes. Negative symptoms mediated the relationship between working memory and 
outcome. Therefore, negative symptoms should be a primary target of treatment to 
improve functional outcomes.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2012.08.025
PMID: 22985548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. Autism. 2013 Jan;17(1):55-63. doi: 10.1177/1362361312455110. Epub 2012 Sep 17.

Diseases of the gastrointestinal tract in individuals diagnosed as children with 
atypical autism: a Danish register study based on hospital diagnoses.

Mouridsen SE(1), Isager T, Rich B.

Author information:
(1)Bispebjerg University Hospital, Denmark. Svend.Erik.Mouridsen@regionh.dk

The purpose of this study is to compare the prevalence and types of diseases 
(International classification of mental and behavioural disorders, 10th edition 
codes K20-K93) relating to the gastrointestinal tract in a clinical sample of 89 
individuals diagnosed as children with atypical autism/pervasive developmental 
disorder not otherwise specified with 258 controls from the general population. 
All participants were screened through the nationwide Danish National Hospital 
Register. The average observation time was 32.9 years, and mean age at the end 
of the observation period was 48.5 years. Among the 89 cases with atypical 
autism, a total of 22 (24.7%) were registered with at least one diagnosis of any 
disease of the gastrointestinal tract, against 47 of 258 (18.2%) in the 
comparison group (p = 0.22; odds ratio = 1.5; 95% confidence interval = 
0.8-2.6). Without reaching statistical significance, the rate of diseases of the 
gastrointestinal tract was particularly high (odds ratio = 1.2) in those with 
intelligence quotient < 70. Overall, people with atypical autism had about the 
same frequency of gastric, intestinal and hepatic diseases as had controls.

DOI: 10.1177/1362361312455110
PMID: 22987890 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. J Intellect Disabil Res. 2013 May;57(5):429-39. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2788.2012.01628.x. Epub 2012 Sep 24.

Predictors of self-injurious behaviour exhibited by individuals with autism 
spectrum disorder.

Richman DM(1), Barnard-Brak L, Bosch A, Thompson S, Grubb L, Abby L.

Author information:
(1)Burkhart Center for Autism Education and Research, Texas Tech University, 
Lubbock, TX 79409-1071, USA. d.richman@ttu.edu

Erratum in
    J Intellect Disabil Res. 2013 Nov;57(11):1091.

BACKGROUND: Presence of an autism spectrum disorder is a risk factor for 
development of self-injurious behaviour (SIB) exhibited by individuals with 
developmental disorders. The most salient SIB risk factors historically studied 
within developmental disorders are level of intellectual disability, 
communication deficits and presence of specific genetic disorders. Recent SIB 
research has expanded the search for risk factors to include less commonly 
studied variables for people with developmental disorders: negative affect, 
hyperactivity and impulsivity.
METHOD: A heterogeneous sample of 617 individuals with autism spectrum disorder 
diagnoses was derived from the National Database of Autism Research. Latent 
constructs were estimated from items of the community version of the Aberrant 
Behaviour Checklist. Structural equation modelling was used to assess whether 
impulsivity, hyperactivity, negative affect, severity of stereotypy, 
intellectual functioning or severity of autism symptoms predicted severity of 
SIB.
RESULTS: Impulsivity (β = 0.46), followed by intellectual functioning 
(β = -0.39), and stereotypy (β = 0.23) were the variables most highly predictive 
of increased SIB; impulsivity and stereotypy remained significant predictors of 
SIB after severity of autism symptoms and intelligence quotient (IQ) were 
controlled for.
CONCLUSIONS: High levels of impulsivity and stereotypy were significant 
predictors of SIB in a large and diverse sample of people with confirmed autism 
diagnoses. Future research is needed on the effects of reducing impulsivity and 
stereotypy on the outcomes of treatment, early intervention and attempts to 
prevent the development of SIB.

© 2012 The Authors. Journal of Intellectual Disability Research © 2012 Blackwell 
Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2788.2012.01628.x
PMID: 22998594 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Compr Psychiatry. 2013 Apr;54(3):262-8. doi: 10.1016/j.comppsych.2012.08.001. 
Epub 2012 Sep 18.

Towards an integrative approach to understanding quality of life in 
schizophrenia: the role of neurocognition, social cognition, and 
psychopathology.

Tas C(1), Brown E, Cubukcuoglu Z, Aydemir O, Danaci AE, Brüne M.

Author information:
(1)International Graduate School of Neuroscience, Ruhr-University Bochum, 
Germany. cumhur.tas@rub.de

The term "schizophrenia" refers to a debilitating group of disorders that 
usually results in a severely impaired quality of life (QoL). Symptomatology 
appears to have a substantial role in determining QoL, although the relationship 
between QoL and specific psychotic symptoms is still unclear and has 
demonstrated mixed results. Due to the intrinsic importance of social 
functioning in QoL, and the mediating effect of social cognition on social 
functioning, the aim of this study was to try to investigate QoL in 
schizophrenia, not only in terms of symptomatology, but also in consideration of 
potential neurocognitive and social cognitive contributing factors.
METHODS: Twenty-eight clinically stable patients with schizophrenia performed a 
broad range of neurocognitive and social cognitive assessments, and also 
participated in a semi-structured interview of QoL, assessing four partially 
independent subdomains of QoL. A stepwise regression model was used to determine 
the best predictors of QoL, and additionally a mediator analysis was performed 
to test for the mediating power of social cognition on QoL.
RESULTS: Negative symptoms, intelligence, executive functioning and social 
cognition all had some power in predicting QoL in schizophrenia. Though most 
interestingly, mental state reasoning was specifically found to be most strongly 
related with the Intrapsychic Foundation subdomain of QoL, whereas 
neurocognition and symptom severity were associated with other subdomains of 
QoL.
CONCLUSIONS: The association between mental state reasoning and the more 
"internal" aspects of QoL in schizophrenia may reflect a specific role for 
social cognition in introspective and subjective judgments of one's own QoL, 
whereas neurocognition and negative symptomatology may be more predictive of the 
external or extrinsic aspects of QoL. In conclusion, social cognitive skills 
appear to play a crucial role in the experience of one's own subjective 
well-being, which could help to explain previous inconsistencies in the 
literature investigating QoL in schizophrenia.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.comppsych.2012.08.001
PMID: 22998842 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


106. Eur Psychiatry. 2013 Aug;28(6):332-9. doi: 10.1016/j.eurpsy.2012.06.003. Epub 
2012 Sep 19.

The influence of impaired processing speed on cognition in first-episode 
antipsychotic-naïve schizophrenic patients.

Andersen R(1), Fagerlund B, Rasmussen H, Ebdrup BH, Aggernaes B, Gade A, Oranje 
B, Glenthoj B.

Author information:
(1)Center for Clinical Intervention and Neuropsychiatric Schizophrenia Research 
(CINS), Copenhagen University Hospital, Psychiatric Center Glostrup, Copenhagen, 
Denmark. runan@regionsjaelland.dk

BACKGROUND: Impaired cognition is a prominent feature of schizophrenia. To what 
extent the heterogeneous cognitive impairments can be accounted for by 
considering only a single underlying impairment or a small number of core 
impairments remains elusive. This study examined whether cognitive impairments 
in antipsychotic-naïve, first-episode schizophrenia patients may be determined 
by a relative slower speed of information processing.
METHOD: Forty-eight antipsychotic-naïve patients with first-episode 
schizophrenia and 48 matched healthy controls were administered a comprehensive 
battery of neuropsychological tests to assess domains of cognitive impairments 
in schizophrenia. Composite scores were calculated, grouping tests into 
cognitive domains.
RESULTS: There were significant differences between patients and healthy 
controls on global cognition and all cognitive domains, including verbal 
intelligence, processing speed, sustained attention, working memory, reasoning 
and problem solving, verbal learning and memory, visual learning and memory, and 
reaction time. All these significant differences, except for verbal intelligence 
and global cognition, disappeared when processing speed was included as a 
covariate.
CONCLUSION: At the first stage of illness, antipsychotic-naïve patients with 
schizophrenia display moderate/severe impairments in all the cognitive domains 
assessed. The results support the contention of a global cognitive dysfunction 
in schizophrenia that to some extent may be determined by impaired processing 
speed.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eurpsy.2012.06.003
PMID: 22999439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107. Environ Res. 2013 Jan;120:119-25. doi: 10.1016/j.envres.2012.06.006. Epub 2012 
Sep 20.

The burden of disease from pediatric lead exposure at hazardous waste sites in 7 
Asian countries.

Caravanos J(1), Chatham-Stephens K, Ericson B, Landrigan PJ, Fuller R.

Author information:
(1)Environmental and Occupational Health Sciences Program, CUNY School of Public 
Health at Hunter College, 2180 Third Avenue, New York, NY 10035, USA. 
jcaravan@hunter.cuny.edu

Identification and systematic assessment of hazardous wastes sites in low and 
middle-income countries has lagged. Hazardous waste problems are especially 
severe in lower income Asian countries where environmental regulations are 
non-existent, nonspecific or poorly enforced. In these countries extensive 
unregulated industrial development has created waste sites in densely populated 
urban areas. These sites appear to pose significant risks to public health, and 
especially to the health of children. To assess potential health risks from 
chemical contamination at hazardous waste sites in Asia, we assessed 679 sites. 
A total of 169 sites in 7 countries were classified as contaminated by lead. 
Eighty-two of these sites contained lead at levels high enough to produce 
elevated blood lead levels in surrounding populations. To estimate the burden of 
pediatric lead poisoning associated with exposure to lead in soil and water at 
these 82 lead-contaminated sites, we used standard toxicokinetic models that 
relate levels of lead in soil and water to blood lead levels in children. We 
calculated blood lead levels, and we quantified losses of intelligence 
(reductions in IQ scores) that were attributable to lead exposure at these 
sites. We found that 189,725 children in the 7 countries are at risk of 
diminished intelligence as a consequence of exposure to elevated levels of lead 
in water and soil at hazardous waste sites. Depending on choice of model, these 
decrements ranged from 4.94 to 14.96 IQ points. Given the restricted scope of 
this survey and the conservative estimation procedures employed, this number is 
almost certainly an underestimate of the full burden of disease. Exposure to 
toxic chemicals from hazardous waste sites is an important and heretofore 
insufficiently examined contributor to the Global Burden of Disease.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envres.2012.06.006
PMID: 22999658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


108. Behav Brain Res. 2013 Jan 15;237:32-40. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2012.09.020. Epub 
2012 Sep 20.

Lifespan development: the effects of typical aging on theory of mind.

Moran JM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Harvard University, 52 Oxford St, 290.01, Center 
for Brain Science, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA 02138, United States. 
jmoran@wjh.harvard.edu

Whether typical aging is associated with impairments in social understanding is 
a topic of critical importance in characterizing the changes that occur in older 
adulthood. Theory of mind (ToM) refers to the ability to represent other's 
mental states, and has been tested in a variety of different paradigms in older 
adults. The overarching research question has been whether ToM abilities may 
rely on other cognitive abilities, such as processing speed or executive 
functioning, and as such declines in ToM may reflect a decline in general 
meta-representational abilities. Alternatively, ToM abilities may be relatively 
spared, suggesting the acquisition of a sort of social wisdom with advancing 
age. The preponderance of the evidence is in line with the first possibility: 
namely, ToM, as measured by paradigms involving faces, cartoons, stories, and 
videos is typically impaired in social aging, and these impairments are at least 
partly mediated by impairments in executive functions and fluid intelligence 
(but not typically by crystallized intelligence). Neuroimaging investigations 
suggest that older adults who perform as well as younger adults may activate 
compensatory mechanisms, but are impaired in the brain mechanisms most closely 
associated with ToM ability when their task performance is impaired. Recent 
methodological advances allowing continuous rather than categorical assessment 
of ToM show that ToM may be observed to function independently from general 
cognition in aging, but further investigation is needed to confirm this point. 
Implications of these findings for the longstanding discussion regarding Theory 
of Mind's endangered status as a special cognitive module are discussed.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2012.09.020
PMID: 23000532 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


109. Hum Brain Mapp. 2013 Dec;34(12):3299-307. doi: 10.1002/hbm.22143. Epub 2012 Sep 
24.

Functional connectivity between parietal and frontal brain regions and 
intelligence in young children: the Generation R study.

Langeslag SJ(1), Schmidt M, Ghassabian A, Jaddoe VW, Hofman A, van der Lugt A, 
Verhulst FC, Tiemeier H, White TJ.

Author information:
(1)The Generation R Study Group, Erasmus MC, Rotterdam, The Netherlands; 
Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry/Psychology, Erasmus MC - Sophia 
Children's Hospital, Rotterdam, The Netherlands; Department of Psychology, 
University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland.

It has been shown in adults that individual differences in intelligence are 
related to the integrity of the interaction between parietal and frontal brain 
regions. Since connectivity between distant brain regions strengthens during 
childhood, it is unclear when in the course of development this relationship 
emerges. Thus, the goal of this study was to determine whether parietal-frontal 
functional connectivity is associated with intelligence in young children. We 
performed independent component analyses on resting-state fMRI data of 115 
children (6-8 years old) to select seed and target regions for a seed/target 
region correlation analysis. We found that higher nonverbal intelligence was 
associated with increased functional connectivity between right parietal and 
right frontal regions, and between right parietal and dorsal anterior cingulate 
regions. The association between intelligence and functional connectivity 
between certain brain regions was stronger in girls than boys. In conclusion, we 
found that connectivity between the parietal and frontal lobes is critically 
involved in intelligence in young children.

Copyright © 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/hbm.22143
PMCID: PMC6870445
PMID: 23008156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


110. Acta Paediatr. 2013 Jan;102(1):66-71. doi: 10.1111/apa.12036. Epub 2012 Oct 22.

Early risk predictors for impaired numerical skills in 5-year-old children born 
before 32 weeks of gestation.

Kiechl-Kohlendorfer U(1), Ralser E, Pupp Peglow U, Pehboeck-Walser N, 
Fussenegger B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics, Divisions of Neonatology, Innsbruck Medical 
University, Innsbruck, Austria. ursula.kohlendorfer@i-med.ac.at

AIM: To unravel risk predictors for impaired numerical skills at 5 years of age 
in a population-based cohort of very preterm infants.
METHODS: Between January 2003 and August 2006, we prospectively enrolled all 
infants born in Tyrol with <32 weeks of gestation. A total of 161 of 223 preterm 
infants (participation rate 72.2%) had a detailed examination at 5 years of age 
including cognitive assessment (Hannover-Wechsler Intelligence Test for 
preschool children, third edition (HAWIVA-III) or Snijders-Oomen Nonverbal 
Intelligence Test (SON-R)). In 135 children, numerical abilities were assessed 
with the dyscalculia test TEDI-MATH. The association between pre- and postnatal 
factors and impaired numerical skills was analyzed by means of logistic 
regression analysis.
RESULTS: Dyscalculia test showed delayed numerical skills (TEDI-MATH Sum T-score 
<40) in 27 of 135 children tested (20.0%). In half of the children tested, 
delayed numerical abilities were related to lower IQ scores. Smoking in 
pregnancy, intracerebral haemorrhage and chronic lung disease were predictive of 
delayed numerical skills at 5 years of age in the multivariate analysis.
CONCLUSION: This study identified risk predictors for impaired numerical skills 
in preterm infants. Our data support the role of both pre- and perinatal factors 
in the evolution of mathematical deficits.

©2012 The Author(s)/Acta Paediatrica ©2012 Foundation Acta Paediatrica.

DOI: 10.1111/apa.12036
PMID: 23009635 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


111. Brain Imaging Behav. 2013 Mar;7(1):68-76. doi: 10.1007/s11682-012-9193-0.

Neuropsychological variability, symptoms, and brain imaging in chronic 
schizophrenia.

Nestor PG(1), Kubicki M, Nakamura M, Niznikiewicz M, Levitt JJ, Shenton ME, 
McCarley RW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Massachusetts, Boston, MA 02125-3393, 
USA. paul.nestor@umb.edu

We examined variability in performance on widely-used neuropsychological 
Wechsler tests of intelligence and memory in a large sample of persons with 
chronic schizophrenia, a subset of whom had also undergone prior studies of 
magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the orbital frontal cortex (OFC) gray matter 
and diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) of the cingulum bundle (CB) and the uncinate 
fasiculus (UF) white matter. In comparison to controls, persons with 
schizophrenia showed lower scores across neuropsychological tests, with most 
pronounced drops in processing speed and immediate memory, in relation to oral 
reading. For patients, greater declines in intelligence and memory each 
correlated with reduced CB white matter fractional anisotropy and reduced OFC 
gray matter, respectively. However, only memory decline correlated with severity 
of negative symptoms. Taken together, these data raise the intriguing question 
as to whether communication and motivational deficits expressed in negative 
symptoms may contribute to the relationship of auditory memory decline and OFC 
volume observed in this patient sample.

DOI: 10.1007/s11682-012-9193-0
PMID: 23011383 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


112. Mem Cognit. 2013 Feb;41(2):268-80. doi: 10.3758/s13421-012-0259-4.

Domain-specific and domain-general constraints on word and sequence learning.

Archibald LM(1), Joanisse MF.

Author information:
(1)School of Communication Sciences and Disorders, Elborn College, Western 
University, London, Ontario N6G 1H1, Canada. larchiba@uwo.ca

The relative influences of language-related and memory-related constraints on 
the learning of novel words and sequences were examined by comparing individual 
differences in performance of children with and without specific deficits in 
either language or working memory. Children recalled lists of words in a Hebbian 
learning protocol in which occasional lists repeated, yielding improved recall 
over the course of the task on the repeated lists. The task involved 
presentation of pictures of common nouns followed immediately by equivalent 
presentations of the spoken names. The same participants also completed a 
paired-associate learning task involving word-picture and nonword-picture pairs. 
Hebbian learning was observed for all groups. Domain-general working memory 
constrained immediate recall, whereas language abilities impacted recall in the 
auditory modality only. In addition, working memory constrained paired-associate 
learning generally, whereas language abilities disproportionately impacted novel 
word learning. Overall, all of the learning tasks were highly correlated with 
domain-general working memory. The learning of nonwords was additionally related 
to general intelligence, phonological short-term memory, language abilities, and 
implicit learning. The results suggest that distinct associations between 
language- and memory-related mechanisms support learning of familiar and 
unfamiliar phonological forms and sequences.

DOI: 10.3758/s13421-012-0259-4
PMID: 23011900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


113. Stress Health. 2013 Aug;29(3):222-8. doi: 10.1002/smi.2451. Epub 2012 Sep 27.

Work-family conflict and job satisfaction: emotional intelligence as a 
moderator.

Gao Y(1), Shi J, Niu Q, Wang L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Peking University, Beijing 100871, China.

The negative impact of work-family conflict (WFC) on employees' well-being and 
job-related outcomes has attracted much research attention recently. A major gap 
in the literature is which factors could potentially buffer its negative effect 
on employees. The present study examined the moderating effect of emotional 
intelligence on the relationship between WFC and job satisfaction in a sample of 
212 Chinese high school teachers. On the basis of conservation of resource 
theory, we hypothesized that emotional intelligence would weaken the negative 
effect of family-to-work and work-to-family interference on job satisfaction. 
Results suggested that WFC (work-to-family interference and family-to-work 
interference) was negatively related to job satisfaction and that emotional 
intelligence weakened the effect of WFC on job satisfaction. These findings 
provide implications for theories on WFC and emotional intelligence, such as 
conservation of resource theory. The current study also provides a test of these 
theories in Chinese culture to support the generalizability of theories 
developed in previous research. Practical implications for reducing the negative 
influence of WFC on employees' job satisfaction are also provided, such as the 
potential value of emotional intelligence for the training and development of 
employees in teaching professions.

Copyright © 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/smi.2451
PMID: 23015466 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114. Curr Pharm Des. 2013;19(4):779-89.

Exploring patterns of epigenetic information with data mining techniques.

Aguiar-Pulido V(1), Seoane JA, Gestal M, Dorado J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Information and Communication Technologies, Computer Science 
Faculty, University of A Coruña, Campus de Elviña, S/N, 15071 A Coruña, Spain. 
vaguiar@udc.es

Data mining, a part of the Knowledge Discovery in Databases process (KDD), is 
the process of extracting patterns from large data sets by combining methods 
from statistics and artificial intelligence with database management. Analyses 
of epigenetic data have evolved towards genome-wide and high-throughput 
approaches, thus generating great amounts of data for which data mining is 
essential. Part of these data may contain patterns of epigenetic information 
which are mitotically and/or meiotically heritable determining gene expression 
and cellular differentiation, as well as cellular fate. Epigenetic lesions and 
genetic mutations are acquired by individuals during their life and accumulate 
with ageing. Both defects, either together or individually, can result in losing 
control over cell growth and, thus, causing cancer development. Data mining 
techniques could be then used to extract the previous patterns. This work 
reviews some of the most important applications of data mining to epigenetics.

PMID: 23016855 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


115. Annu Rev Psychol. 2013;64:135-68. doi: 10.1146/annurev-psych-113011-143750. Epub 
2012 Sep 27.

Executive functions.

Diamond A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of British Columbia and BC Children's 
Hospital, Vancouver, BC V6T 2A1, Canada. adele.diamond@ubc.ca

Executive functions (EFs) make possible mentally playing with ideas; taking the 
time to think before acting; meeting novel, unanticipated challenges; resisting 
temptations; and staying focused. Core EFs are inhibition [response inhibition 
(self-control--resisting temptations and resisting acting impulsively) and 
interference control (selective attention and cognitive inhibition)], working 
memory, and cognitive flexibility (including creatively thinking "outside the 
box," seeing anything from different perspectives, and quickly and flexibly 
adapting to changed circumstances). The developmental progression and 
representative measures of each are discussed. Controversies are addressed 
(e.g., the relation between EFs and fluid intelligence, self-regulation, 
executive attention, and effortful control, and the relation between working 
memory and inhibition and attention). The importance of social, emotional, and 
physical health for cognitive health is discussed because stress, lack of sleep, 
loneliness, or lack of exercise each impair EFs. That EFs are trainable and can 
be improved with practice is addressed, including diverse methods tried thus 
far.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-psych-113011-143750
PMCID: PMC4084861
PMID: 23020641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. Psychol Med. 2013 Jul;43(7):1543-54. doi: 10.1017/S0033291712002188. Epub 2012 
Oct 1.

The neuropsychological profile of children at high risk of developing an eating 
disorder.

Kothari R(1), Solmi F, Treasure J, Micali N.

Author information:
(1)Behavioural and Brain Sciences Unit, Institute of Child Health, University 
College London, UK. radha.kothari.10@ucl.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: There is a large body of evidence indicating that eating disorders 
(EDs) are characterized by particular neuropsychological profiles. We aimed to 
further explore whether impairments in neuropsychological functioning previously 
found in ED groups are present prior to onset, or are secondary to the disorder. 
Method This is the first study to explore neuropsychological functioning in 
children born to a mother with a lifetime ED, who are therefore at high risk of 
developing an ED, in a large cohort sample. We investigated intelligence and 
attention at age 8 years (n = 6201) and working memory (WM) and inhibition at 
age 10 years (6192) in children who are at high risk of developing an ED, 
compared to children who are not.
RESULTS: The children of women with lifetime anorexia nervosa (AN) showed high 
full-scale and performance IQ, increased WM capacity, better visuo-spatial 
functioning, and decreased attentional control. The children of women with 
lifetime bulimia nervosa (BN) showed comparatively poor visuo-spatial 
functioning.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that high intelligence, increased WM capacity 
and impaired attentional control might be intermediate phenotypes on the pathway 
between genetic vulnerability and the development of an ED.

DOI: 10.1017/S0033291712002188
PMID: 23021014 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. J Exp Psychol Gen. 2013 Aug;142(3):979-1000. doi: 10.1037/a0030155. Epub 2012 
Oct 1.

A knowledge-based theory of rising scores on "culture-free" tests.

Fox MC(1), Mitchum AL(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology.
(2)SR Research.

Secular gains in intelligence test scores have perplexed researchers since they 
were documented by Flynn (1984, 1987). Gains are most pronounced on abstract, 
so-called culture-free tests, prompting Flynn (2007) to attribute them to 
problem-solving skills availed by scientifically advanced cultures. We propose 
that recent-born individuals have adopted an approach to analogy that enables 
them to infer higher level relations requiring roles that are not intrinsic to 
the objects that constitute initial representations of items. This proposal is 
translated into item-specific predictions about differences between cohorts in 
pass rates and item-response patterns on the Raven's Matrices (Flynn, 1987), a 
seemingly culture-free test that registers the largest Flynn effect. Consistent 
with predictions, archival data reveal that individuals born around 1940 are 
less able to map objects at higher levels of relational abstraction than 
individuals born around 1990. Polytomous Rasch models verify predicted 
violations of measurement invariance, as raw scores are found to underestimate 
the number of analogical rules inferred by members of the earlier cohort 
relative to members of the later cohort who achieve the same overall score. The 
work provides a plausible cognitive account of the Flynn effect, furthers 
understanding of the cognition of matrix reasoning, and underscores the need to 
consider how test-takers select item responses.

PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2013 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/a0030155
PMID: 23025559 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118. Psychiatry Res. 2013 May 30;207(3):218-24. doi: 10.1016/j.psychres.2012.09.013. 
Epub 2012 Oct 1.

Executive functioning deficits and childhood trauma in juvenile violent 
offenders in China.

Zou Z(1), Meng H, Ma Z, Deng W, Du L, Wang H, Chen P, Hu H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, The First Affiliated Hospital, Chongqing Medical 
University, Chongqing, 400016, China.

A large body of evidence indicates that violent offenders have executive 
functioning deficits. However, previous studies have not considered childhood 
trauma, which is likely to influence the executive functioning of violent 
offenders. The aim of the present study was to compare the difference of 
executive functioning among juvenile violent offenders, with non-violent 
offenders and normal controls, and then to analyse whether executive functioning 
was affected independently of childhood trauma. In addition to using a battery 
of tests assessing executive functioning including the Intra/Extradimensional 
Shift Test(IED), the Stockings of Cambridge Test (SOC), and the Spatial Working 
Memory Test (SWM) from the Cambridge Automated Neuropsychological Testing 
Battery (CANTAB), the short form of the Chinese Revision of the Wechsler Adult 
Intelligence Scale (WAIS-RC) and Childhood Trauma Questionnaire-28 item Short 
Form (CTQ) were also used among 107 violent offenders, 107 non-violent offenders 
and 107 normal controls. Our results showed that both offender groups obtained 
significantly lower estimated Intelligence Quotient (IQ) scores and experienced 
more childhood trauma than did normal controls. Violent offenders showed 
impaired executive functioning on tasks of attention set-shifting, working 
memory and planning. Finally, spatial working memory (SWM) deficits, 
particularly SWM strategy scores, may be associated with childhood trauma.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2012.09.013
PMID: 23036491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. Ear Hear. 2013 Mar-Apr;34(2):236-44. doi: 10.1097/AUD.0b013e31826a1c99.

Children with phenylketonuria treated early: basic audiological and 
electrophysiological evaluation.

Mancini PC(1), Durrant JD, Starling AL, Iório MC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Speech Pathology and Audiology, Universidade Federal de Minas 
Gerais, Belo Horizonte, Brazil. pmancini@medicina.ufmg.br

OBJECTIVES: Individuals with phenylketonuria (PKU) can exhibit deficits in 
executive functions, intelligence, attention, visual-spatial processing 
abilities, and efficiency stemming presumably from deficient neurotransmitter 
synthesis, even when the disorder is diagnosed and treated early. Basic 
audiological and electrophysiological evaluations were used to examine the 
peripheral and central auditory pathways of children with early-treated PKU, who 
followed adequate versus inadequate diets. Results were compared with those of 
age-matched children without PKU.
DESIGN: The control group included 35 children aged 5 to 16 years, and the 
experimental group included 25 children with classic PKU, all of whom were 
diagnosed and treated early. The experimental group comprised children of two 
subgroups, divided according to their dietary control, as follows: 8 children 
aged 6 to 13 years with adequate diets (group A); 17 children ages 6 to 15 years 
demonstrating inadequate diets (group B). All participants underwent auditory 
evaluations, including otoscopy, pure-tone and speech audiometry, immittance 
testing (tympanometry and assessment of contralateral stapedial reflex 
thresholds), and evaluations of auditory brainstem and middle latency responses. 
The demographic variables and audiological examination results were analyzed for 
all groups. Results among groups and subgroups were compared using analysis of 
variance with repeated measures to test statistical significance across factors 
and measures at the p = 0.05 level.
RESULTS: Audiometric evaluation revealed results within normal limits for all 
groups, except for one child from the inadequate diet group, who showed a mild 
bilateral conductive hearing loss. Results of speech and immittance audiometry 
suggested the children in group B as having poorer average speech-discrimination 
scores and higher stapedial reflex thresholds at 4000 Hz. Auditory brainstem 
response results revealed longer average latencies for waves III and V and 
greater interaural differences for wave V in group B, although both groups A and 
B showed longer average latencies for the interpeak interval I-V, compared with 
the control group. Middle latency responses showed no significant differences in 
the latencies of the Na and Pa waves or the Na-Pa amplitude for the experimental 
group, but electrode or ear effects were present in 87.5% of group A and 58.8% 
of group B.
CONCLUSIONS: Overall, differences observed tended to be small (by clinical 
diagnostic standards), yet suggest that children with PKU exhibit some effect of 
this disorder on the pontine auditory pathway, even when diagnosed/treated early 
and independent of the appropriateness of diet. It thus seems prudent to follow 
PKU children with auditory processing assessments to evaluate functional 
implications of these findings.

DOI: 10.1097/AUD.0b013e31826a1c99
PMID: 23038064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. Prog Neuropsychopharmacol Biol Psychiatry. 2013 Jan 10;40:207-12. doi: 
10.1016/j.pnpbp.2012.09.013. Epub 2012 Oct 2.

Structural neurobiological correlates of Mayer-Salovery-Caruso Emotional 
Intelligence Test performance in early course schizophrenia.

Wojtalik JA(1), Eack SM, Keshavan MS.

Author information:
(1)School of Social Work, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.

OBJECTIVE: The Mayer-Salovey-Caruso Emotional Intelligence Test (MSCEIT) is a 
key measure of social cognition in schizophrenia that has good psychometric 
properties and is recommended by the MATRICS committee. As a way to further 
investigate the validity of the MSCEIT, this study sought to examine the 
neurobiological correlates of MSCEIT performance in patients with early course 
schizophrenia.
METHODS: A total of 51 patients diagnosed with early course, stabilized 
schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder completed structural magnetic 
resonance imaging (MRI) scans and the MSCEIT. Investigation of the associations 
between MSCEIT performance and gray matter morphology was examined by conducting 
voxel-based morphometry (VBM) analyses across hypothesized social-cognitive 
regions of interest using automated anatomical labeling in Statistical 
Parametric Mapping Software, version 5 (SPM5). All VBM analyses utilized general 
linear models examining gray matter density partitioned images, adjusting for 
demographic and illness-related confounds. VBM results were then followed up 
with confirmatory volumetric analyses.
RESULTS: Patients with poorer overall and Facilitating, Understanding, and 
Managing Emotions subscale performances on the MSCEIT showed significantly 
reduced gray matter density in the left parahippocampal gyrus. Additionally, 
attenuated performance on the Facilitating and Managing Emotions subscales was 
significantly associated with reduced right posterior cingulate gray matter 
density. All associations observed between MSCEIT performance and gray matter 
density were supported with confirmatory gray matter volumetric analyses, with 
the exception of the association between the right posterior cingulate and the 
facilitation of emotions.
CONCLUSION: These findings provide additional evidence for the MSCEIT as a valid 
social-cognitive measure by elucidating its correlates with neurobiological 
structures commonly implicated in emotion processing. These findings provide 
additional biological evidence supporting the use of the MSCEIT in cognitive 
enhancing clinical trials in schizophrenia.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pnpbp.2012.09.013
PMCID: PMC3635092
PMID: 23041620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest In the past year, Dr. Shaun 
M. Eack has received consulting fees from Abbott Laboratories and Dr. Matcheri 
S. Keshavan has received Glaxo Smith Kline and Sunovion grants for studies of 
cognitive remediation.


121. Schizophr Bull. 2013 Sep;39(5):1129-38. doi: 10.1093/schbul/sbs118. Epub 2012 
Oct 5.

Brain volumes in schizophrenia: a meta-analysis in over 18 000 subjects.

Haijma SV(1), Van Haren N, Cahn W, Koolschijn PC, Hulshoff Pol HE, Kahn RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, 
Netherlands. s.v.haijma@umcutrecht.nl

Although structural brain alterations in schizophrenia have been demonstrated 
extensively, their quantitative distribution has not been studied over the last 
14 years despite advances in neuroimaging. Moreover, a volumetric meta-analysis 
has not been conducted in antipsychotic-naive patients. Therefore, meta-analysis 
on cross-sectional volumetric brain alterations in both medicated and 
antipsychotic-naive patients was conducted. Three hundred seventeen studies 
published from September 1, 1998 to January 1, 2012 comprising over 9000 
patients were selected for meta-analysis, including 33 studies in 
antipsychotic-naive patients. In addition to effect sizes, potential modifying 
factors such as duration of illness, sex composition, current antipsychotic 
dose, and intelligence quotient matching status of participants were extracted 
where available. In the sample of medicated schizophrenia patients (n = 8327), 
intracranial and total brain volume was significantly decreased by 2.0% (effect 
size d = -0.17) and 2.6% (d = -0.30), respectively. Largest effect sizes were 
observed for gray matter structures, with effect sizes ranging from -0.22 to 
-0.58. In the sample of antipsychotic-naive patients (n = 771), volume 
reductions in caudate nucleus (d = -0.38) and thalamus (d = -0.68) were more 
pronounced than in medicated patients. White matter volume was decreased to a 
similar extent in both groups, while gray matter loss was less extensive in 
antipsychotic-naive patients. Gray matter reduction was associated with longer 
duration of illness and higher dose of antipsychotic medication at time of 
scanning. Therefore, brain loss in schizophrenia is related to a combination of 
(early) neurodevelopmental processes-reflected in intracranial volume 
reduction-as well as illness progression.

DOI: 10.1093/schbul/sbs118
PMCID: PMC3756785
PMID: 23042112 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. Hum Mutat. 2013 Feb;34(2):283-6. doi: 10.1002/humu.22235. Epub 2012 Nov 8.

A novel RAB33B mutation in Smith-McCort dysplasia.

Dupuis N(1), Lebon S, Kumar M, Drunat S, Graul-Neumann LM, Gressens P, El 
Ghouzzi V.

Author information:
(1)Inserm, U676, Paris, France.

Smith-McCort dysplasia (SMC) is a rare autosomal recessive 
spondylo-epi-metaphyseal dysplasia with skeletal features identical to those of 
Dyggve-Melchior-Clausen syndrome (DMC) but with normal intelligence and no 
microcephaly. Although both syndromes were shown to result from mutations in the 
DYM gene, which encodes the Golgi protein DYMECLIN, a few SMC patients remained 
negative in DYM mutation screening. Recently, autozygosity mapping and exome 
sequencing in a large SMC family have allowed the identification of a missense 
mutation in RAB33B, another Golgi protein involved in retrograde transport of 
Golgi vesicles. Here, we report a novel RAB33B mutation in a second SMC case 
that leads to a marked reduction of the protein as shown by Western blot and 
immunofluorescence. These data confirm the genetic heterogeneity of SMC 
dysplasia and highlight the role of Golgi transport in the pathogenesis of SMC 
and DMC syndromes.

© 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/humu.22235
PMID: 23042644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. Mem Cognit. 2013 Feb;41(2):255-67. doi: 10.3758/s13421-012-0258-5.

Metaphorically speaking: cognitive abilities and the production of figurative 
language.

Beaty RE(1), Silvia PJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of North Carolina at Greensboro, PO Box 
26170, Greensboro, NC 27402-6170, USA. rebeaty@uncg.edu

Figurative language is one of the most common expressions of creative behavior 
in everyday life. However, the cognitive mechanisms behind figures of speech 
such as metaphors remain largely unexplained. Recent evidence suggests that 
fluid and executive abilities are important to the generation of conventional 
and creative metaphors. The present study investigated whether several factors 
of the Cattell-Horn-Carroll model of intelligence contribute to generating these 
different types of metaphors. Specifically, the roles of fluid intelligence 
(Gf), crystallized intelligence (Gc), and broad retrieval ability (Gr) were 
explored. Participants completed a series of intelligence tests and were asked 
to produce conventional and creative metaphors. Structural equation modeling was 
used to assess the contribution of the different factors of intelligence to 
metaphor production. For creative metaphor, there were large effects of Gf (β = 
.45) and Gr (β = .52); for conventional metaphor, there was a moderate effect of 
Gc (β = .30). Creative and conventional metaphors thus appear to be anchored in 
different patterns of abilities: Creative metaphors rely more on executive 
processes, whereas conventional metaphors primarily draw from acquired 
vocabulary knowledge.

DOI: 10.3758/s13421-012-0258-5
PMID: 23055118 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. Mem Cognit. 2013 Feb;41(2):281-96. doi: 10.3758/s13421-012-0262-9.

Individual differences in adult foreign language learning: the mediating effect 
of metalinguistic awareness.

Brooks PJ(1), Kempe V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, College of Staten Island, City University of New 
York, 2800 Victory Boulevard 4S-108, Staten Island, NY 10314, USA. 
patricia.brooks@csi.cuny.edu

In this study, we sought to identify cognitive predictors of individual 
differences in adult foreign-language learning and to test whether 
metalinguistic awareness mediated the observed relationships. Using a miniature 
language-learning paradigm, adults (N = 77) learned Russian vocabulary and 
grammar (gender agreement and case marking) over six 1-h sessions, completing 
tasks that encouraged attention to phrases without explicitly teaching 
grammatical rules. The participants' ability to describe the Russian gender and 
case-marking patterns mediated the effects of nonverbal intelligence and 
auditory sequence learning on grammar learning and generalization. Hence, even 
under implicit-learning conditions, individual differences stemmed from explicit 
metalinguistic awareness of the underlying grammar, which, in turn, was linked 
to nonverbal intelligence and auditory sequence learning. Prior knowledge of 
languages with grammatical gender (predominantly Spanish) predicted learning of 
gender agreement. Transfer of knowledge of gender from other languages to 
Russian was not mediated by awareness, which suggests that transfer operates 
through an implicit process akin to structural priming.

DOI: 10.3758/s13421-012-0262-9
PMID: 23055121 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. Behav Res Methods. 2013 Jun;45(2):499-515. doi: 10.3758/s13428-012-0258-1.

Natural language processing in an intelligent writing strategy tutoring system.

McNamara DS(1), Crossley SA, Roscoe R.

Author information:
(1)Learning Sciences Institute, Arizona State University, Phoenix, AZ, USA. 
dsmcnamara1@gmail.com

The Writing Pal is an intelligent tutoring system that provides writing strategy 
training. A large part of its artificial intelligence resides in the natural 
language processing algorithms to assess essay quality and guide feedback to 
students. Because writing is often highly nuanced and subjective, the 
development of these algorithms must consider a broad array of linguistic, 
rhetorical, and contextual features. This study assesses the potential for 
computational indices to predict human ratings of essay quality. Past studies 
have demonstrated that linguistic indices related to lexical diversity, word 
frequency, and syntactic complexity are significant predictors of human 
judgments of essay quality but that indices of cohesion are not. The present 
study extends prior work by including a larger data sample and an expanded set 
of indices to assess new lexical, syntactic, cohesion, rhetorical, and reading 
ease indices. Three models were assessed. The model reported by McNamara, 
Crossley, and McCarthy (Written Communication 27:57-86, 2010) including three 
indices of lexical diversity, word frequency, and syntactic complexity accounted 
for only 6% of the variance in the larger data set. A regression model including 
the full set of indices examined in prior studies of writing predicted 38% of 
the variance in human scores of essay quality with 91% adjacent accuracy (i.e., 
within 1 point). A regression model that also included new indices related to 
rhetoric and cohesion predicted 44% of the variance with 94% adjacent accuracy. 
The new indices increased accuracy but, more importantly, afford the means to 
provide more meaningful feedback in the context of a writing tutoring system.

DOI: 10.3758/s13428-012-0258-1
PMID: 23055164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


126. Am J Infect Control. 2013 Apr;41(4):368-70. doi: 10.1016/j.ajic.2012.03.034. 
Epub 2012 Oct 10.

Pilot evaluation of a ward-based automated hand hygiene training system.

Ghosh A(1), Ameling S, Zhou J, Lacey G, Creamer E, Dolan A, Sherlock O, 
Humphreys H.

Author information:
(1)School of Computer Science and Statistics, Trinity College, Dublin, Ireland.

A novel artificial intelligence (AI) system (SureWash; GLANTA, Dublin, Ireland) 
was placed on a ward with 45 staff members for two 6-day periods to 
automatically assess hand hygiene technique and the potential effectiveness of 
the automated training system. Two human reviewers assessed videos from 50 hand 
hygiene events with an interrater reliability (IIR) of 88% (44/50). The IIR was 
88% (44/50) for the human reviewers and 80% (40/50) for the software. This study 
also investigated the poses missed and the impact of feedback on participation 
(+113%), duration (+11%), and technique (+2.23%). Our findings showed 
significant correlation between the human raters and the computer, demonstrating 
for the first time in a clinical setting the potential use of this type of AI 
technology in hand hygiene training.

Copyright © 2013 Association for Professionals in Infection Control and 
Epidemiology, Inc. Published by Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajic.2012.03.034
PMID: 23062661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127. Neuroimage. 2013 Jan 15;65:288-98. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2012.09.075. Epub 
2012 Oct 12.

Influence of the fragile X mental retardation (FMR1) gene on the brain and 
working memory in men with normal FMR1 alleles.

Wang JY(1), Hessl D, Iwahashi C, Cheung K, Schneider A, Hagerman RJ, Hagerman 
PJ, Rivera SM.

Author information:
(1)Center for Mind and Brain, University of California-Davis, Davis, CA 95618, 
USA.

The fragile X mental retardation 1 (FMR1) gene plays an important role in the 
development and maintenance of neuronal circuits that are essential for 
cognitive functioning. We explored the functional linkage(s) among lymphocytic 
FMR1 gene expression, brain structure, and working memory in healthy adult 
males. We acquired T1-weighted and diffusion tensor imaging from 37 males (18-80 
years, mean ± SD= 40.7 ± 17.3 years) with normal FMR1 alleles and performed 
genetic and working memory assessments. Brain measurements were obtained from 
fiber tracts important for working memory (i.e. the arcuate fasciculus, anterior 
cingulum bundle, inferior longitudinal fasciculus, and the genu and anterior 
body of the corpus callosum), individual voxels, and whole brain. Both FMR1 mRNA 
and protein (FMRP) levels exhibited significant associations with brain 
measurements, with FMRP correlating positively with gray matter volume and white 
matter structural organization, and FMR1 mRNA negatively with white matter 
structural organization. The correlation was widespread, impacting rostral white 
matter and 2 working-memory fiber tracts for FMRP, and all cerebral white matter 
areas except the fornix and cerebellar peduncles and all 4 fiber tracts for FMR1 
mRNA. In addition, the levels of FMR1 mRNA as well as the fiber tracts 
demonstrated a significant correlation with working memory performance. While 
FMR1 mRNA exhibited a negative correlation with working memory, fiber tract 
structural organization showed a positive correlation. These findings suggest 
that the FMR1 gene is a genetic factor common for both working memory and brain 
structure, and has implications for our understanding of the transmission of 
intelligence and brain structure.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2012.09.075
PMCID: PMC3540208
PMID: 23063447 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. J Neurophysiol. 2013 Jan;109(1):99-105. doi: 10.1152/jn.00581.2012. Epub 2012 
Oct 17.

Not so primitive: context-sensitive meta-learning about unattended sound 
sequences.

Todd J(1), Provost A, Whitson LR, Cooper G, Heathcote A.

Author information:
(1)School of Psychology, University of Newcastle, Callaghan, NSW, Australia. 
juanita.todd@newcastle.edu.au

Mismatch negativity (MMN), an evoked response potential elicited when a 
"deviant" sound violates a regularity in the auditory environment, is integral 
to auditory scene processing and has been used to demonstrate "primitive 
intelligence" in auditory short-term memory. Using a new multiple-context and 
-timescale protocol we show that MMN magnitude displays a context-sensitive 
modulation depending on changes in the probability of a deviant at multiple 
temporal scales. We demonstrate a primacy bias causing asymmetric evidence-based 
modulation of predictions about the environment, and we demonstrate that 
learning how to learn about deviant probability (meta-learning) induces 
context-sensitive variation in the accessibility of predictive long-term memory 
representations that underpin the MMN. The existence of the bias and 
meta-learning are consistent with automatic attributions of behavioral salience 
governing relevance-filtering processes operating outside of awareness.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00581.2012
PMID: 23076102 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


129. Eur Arch Psychiatry Clin Neurosci. 2013 Jun;263(4):299-307. doi: 
10.1007/s00406-012-0373-0. Epub 2012 Oct 18.

Insight in schizophrenia: associations with empathy.

Pijnenborg GH(1), Spikman JM, Jeronimus BF, Aleman A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychotic Disorders, GGZ-Drenthe, Dennenweg 9, 9404 LA Assen, 
The Netherlands. g.h.m.pijnenborg@rug.nl

Comment in
    Eur Arch Psychiatry Clin Neurosci. 2014 Sep;264(6):551-3.

Many people with schizophrenia (50-80%) demonstrate impaired insight, something 
which has been associated with a poorer outcome. Two types of empathy can be 
distinguished: affective empathy via shared emotions and cognitive empathy, also 
referred to as Theory of Mind (ToM). ToM can be subdivided into cognitive ToM 
(knowledge about beliefs of other people via perspective taking) and affective 
ToM (knowledge about other people's emotions via perspective taking). Recent 
studies show a relationship between Theory of Mind (ToM) and insight. However, 
the relationship between affective empathy and insight in schizophrenia was not 
examined previously. This was the aim of the present study. We expected that 
affective empathy would show a stronger relationship with insight than both 
cognitive and affective ToM. We assessed forty-six patients with a diagnosis of 
schizophrenia, and fifty-three healthy controls were assessed with a test 
battery consisting of tests of social cognition (a self-rating scale for 
affective empathy, a ToM task assessing both cognitive and affective ToM, and 
two tests of emotion perception), verbal memory, executive functioning, 
psychomotor speed, and intelligence. Insight was assessed with item G12 of the 
PANSS-interview. A regression equation showed that affective empathy made the 
strongest unique contribution to insight, followed closely by affective ToM. 
Together, they explained 45% of the variance in insight. None of the other 
independent variables made a unique contribution to the prediction of insight. 
Both affective ToM and affective empathy are associated with insight in 
schizophrenia. Being able to take empathize with other peoples feeling at both 
the affective and cognitive level may enhance insight in schizophrenia.

DOI: 10.1007/s00406-012-0373-0
PMID: 23076736 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Psychiatr Q. 2013 Sep;84(3):303-11. doi: 10.1007/s11126-012-9246-y.

Alexithymia and emotional intelligence in patients with panic disorder, 
generalized anxiety disorder and major depressive disorder.

Onur E(1), Alkın T, Sheridan MJ, Wise TN.

Author information:
(1)Dokuz Eylül University, Izmir, Turkey.

Emotional Intelligence (EI) is a broad personality construct signifying the 
ability to perceive and to regulate affects within oneself. Alexithymia is 
another personality construct denoting difficulty in identifying and expressing 
emotions, with an externally oriented thinking style. Although previously 
considered to be independent, some studies have shown that these constructs 
overlap. The aim of this study was to evaluate and compare the levels of EI and 
alexithymia in patients with panic disorder, major depressive disorder (MDD), 
and generalized anxiety disorder (GAD). The subjects included 171 psychiatric 
patients and 56 non-clinical controls. Psychiatric diagnoses were based on 
DSM-IV criteria. The Emotional Intelligence Scale-34 (EIS-34) and the Toronto 
Alexithymia Scale (TAS-20) were used to assess EI and alexithymia. All three 
patient groups scored statistically significantly higher than the non-clinical 
controls on TAS-20 total score and the TAS-20 subfactors of difficulty 
identifying feelings and difficulty describing feelings. EIS-34 scores were 
lower in patient groups than in the non-clinical controls, but only the EIS-34 
intrapersonal subscale was significant difference. Total TAS-20 and EIS-34 
scores in the patient cohort were inversely and significantly correlated These 
results reaffirm an overlap between EI and alexithymia with the intrapersonal 
factor of EI to be more dependent on the difficulty identifying feelings 
dimension of alexithymia in subjects with MDD and GAD.

DOI: 10.1007/s11126-012-9246-y
PMID: 23076764 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


131. Cogn Neuropsychiatry. 2013;18(5):437-51. doi: 10.1080/13546805.2012.730038. Epub 
2012 Oct 19.

Understanding processing speed--its subcomponents and their relationship to 
characteristics of people with schizophrenia.

Cella M(1), Wykes T.

Author information:
(1)a Department of Psychology , Institute of Psychiatry, King's College London , 
London , UK.

INTRODUCTION: Processing speed has been advanced as one of the core cognitive 
deficits of schizophrenia. Several methods were developed to assess this domain; 
however, most tasks, despite indexing several cognitive and motor components, 
tend to characterise processing speed as a unitary construct. This study 
explores potential subcomponents of processing speed in schizophrenia and their 
relationship with demographic, clinical, and neuropsychological characteristics.
METHODS: One hundred and sixty participants with a diagnosis of schizophrenia 
were assessed on neuropsychological tasks measuring processing speed, executive 
function, and memory. Demographics and clinical characteristics were also 
recorded. Three independent measures were extracted to account for subcomponents 
of processing speed: behavioural execution, response processing, and accuracy.
RESULTS: The identified components of processing speed were differently 
predicted by demographic characteristics, clinical characteristics, and overall 
intelligence estimates. Age and symptom severity were important predictors for 
behavioural execution; intelligence and social withdrawal predicted response 
processing; and accuracy was predicted by illness duration. Correlations showed 
executive function and memory to be associated with response processing and 
accuracy but not with behavioural execution.
CONCLUSIONS: Distinct characteristics of schizophrenia seem to predict 
processing speed subcomponents. Distinguishing between behavioural, processing, 
and accuracy may be a useful way forward to refine our understanding of 
processing speed impairment in schizophrenia.

DOI: 10.1080/13546805.2012.730038
PMID: 23082749 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


132. Early Hum Dev. 2013 Mar;89(3):181-5. doi: 10.1016/j.earlhumdev.2012.09.014. Epub 
2012 Oct 22.

Motor and cognitive outcome at school age of children with surgically treated 
intestinal obstructions in the neonatal period.

Elsinga RM(1), Roze E, Van Braeckel KN, Hulscher JB, Bos AF.

Author information:
(1)Division of Neonatology, Beatrix Children's Hospital, University Medical 
Center Groningen, University of Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands. 
r.m.elsinga@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: The motor and cognitive outcome at school age of newborn children 
with surgically treated intestinal obstructions is unknown. Physiological stress 
and anesthesia may potentially be harmful in the period of early brain 
development in newborn infants.
OBJECTIVE: To determine motor and cognitive outcome at school age in children 
with surgically treated intestinal obstructions as newborns, and to identify 
clinical risk factors for adverse outcome.
STUDY DESIGN: Cohort study of infants born between 1995 and 2002 with atresia, 
stenosis, or intestinal malrotation. At 6 to 13years we assessed their motor 
functions, intelligence, attention, visual perception, visuomotor integration, 
and verbal memory.
RESULTS: Of 44 children three (7%) died. Twenty-seven survivors (66%) were 
included for follow-up (median gestational age 36.7weeks, birth weight 3000g). 
Motor outcome was abnormal (<5th percentile) in 22% of the children, which was 
significantly more than in the norm population (P<0.01). Scores on selective 
attention were abnormal in 15% of the children (P<0.01). Other cognitive 
functions were not affected. Lower birth weight and intestinal perforation were 
risk factors for poorer motor outcome (R(2)=53.0%), intrauterine growth 
restriction was a risk factor for poorer selective attention (R(2)=36.6%).
CONCLUSIONS: Children treated surgically for intestinal obstructions in the 
neonatal period had an increased risk for poor motor functioning and selective 
attention at school age. Low birth weight, intrauterine growth restriction and 
intestinal perforation were risk factors for adverse outcome. We recommend to 
closely follow the motor and attentional development of these children.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.earlhumdev.2012.09.014
PMID: 23084574 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


133. Pediatr Res. 2013 Jan;73(1):111-9. doi: 10.1038/pr.2012.140. Epub 2012 Oct 19.

Lack of severe long-term outcomes of acute, subclinical B1 deficiency in 216 
children in Israel exposed in early infancy.

Ornoy A(1), Tekuzener E, Braun T, Dichtiar R, Shohat T, Cassuto H, Keinan-Boker 
L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Child Development and Rehabilitation, Israeli Ministry of 
Health, Jerusalem, Israel. ornoy@cc.huji.ac.il

BACKGROUND: A vitamin B(1)-deficient soy-based infant formula was marketed in 
Israel in 2003, exposing infants to clinical or subclinical B(1) deficiency. We 
investigated whether subclinical B(1) deficiency in early infancy had medical, 
neurodevelopmental, or cognitive effects at 3-5 y of age.
METHODS: A historical prospective cohort study was conducted consisting of four 
groups: "exposed," consuming a B(1)-deficient soy-based formula exclusively for 
four consecutive weeks or longer; "control," consuming no soy-based formula; 
"mixed," consuming the formula nonexclusively or exclusively for less than four 
consecutive weeks; and "other," consuming soy-based formulas other than Remedia. 
Participants were evaluated by medical examination, Stanford-Binet (SB) 
intelligence test, sensory profile evaluation, and Conners scales (attention 
deficit disorder/attention deficit and hyperactivity disorder (ADD/ADHD)).
RESULTS: Following adjustment for gender, age, and maternal education, there 
were no significant differences among the four groups on the mean SB scores, on 
the verbal and nonverbal scores, or in the proportion of children in each group 
with scores <90. A significantly higher proportion of exposed children as 
compared with control children had an impaired sensory profile and scores on the 
Conners scales (ADD/ADHD), but these proportions were also high in the "other" 
and "mixed" groups.
CONCLUSION: The results do not support an association between subclinical B(1) 
deficiency in infancy and long-term development.

DOI: 10.1038/pr.2012.140
PMID: 23085818 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


134. J Pers Soc Psychol. 2013 Feb;104(2):277-88. doi: 10.1037/a0030461. Epub 2012 Oct 
22.

Are all interventions created equal? A multi-threat approach to tailoring 
stereotype threat interventions.

Shapiro JR(1), Williams AM, Hambarchyan M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of California, Los Angeles, CA 
90095-1563, USA. jshapiro@psych.ucla.edu

To date, stereotype threat interventions have been considered interchangeable. 
Across 4 experiments, the present research demonstrates that stereotype threat 
interventions need to be tailored to the specific form of experienced stereotype 
threat to be effective. The Multi-Threat Framework (Shapiro & Neuberg, 2007) 
distinguishes between group-as-target stereotype threats-concerns that a 
stereotype-relevant performance will reflect poorly on the abilities of one's 
group-and self-as-target stereotype threats-concerns that a stereotype-relevant 
performance will reflect poorly on one's own abilities. The present experiments 
explored Black college students' performance on diagnostic intelligence tests 
(Experiments 1 and 3) and women's interest (Experiment 2) and performance 
(Experiment 4) in science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM). Across the 
4 experiments, participants were randomly assigned to experience either a 
group-as-target or self-as-target stereotype threat. Experiments 1 and 2 
revealed that role model interventions were successful at protecting only 
against group-as-target stereotype threats, and Experiments 3 and 4 revealed 
that self-affirmation interventions were successful at protecting only against 
self-as-target stereotype threats. The present research provides an experimental 
test of the Multi-Threat Framework across different negatively stereotyped 
groups (Black students, female students), different negatively stereotyped 
domains (general intelligence, STEM), and different outcomes (test performance, 
career interest). This research suggests that interventions should address the 
range of possible stereotype threats to effectively protect individuals against 
these threats. Through an appreciation of the distinct forms of stereotype 
threats and the ways in which interventions work to reduce them, this research 
aims to facilitate a more complete understanding of stereotype threat.

(c) 2013 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/a0030461
PMCID: PMC3682115
PMID: 23088232 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135. J Abnorm Psychol. 2013 Feb;122(1):295-301. doi: 10.1037/a0029984. Epub 2012 Oct 
22.

The level and nature of autistic intelligence III: Inspection time.

Barbeau EB(1), Soulières I, Dawson M, Zeffiro TA, Mottron L.

Author information:
(1)Centre d'Excellence en Troubles Envahissants du Développement de l'Université 
de Montréal (CETEDUM), Montréal, QC, Canada.

Across the autism spectrum, level of intelligence is highly dependent on the 
psychometric instrument used for assessment, and there are conflicting views 
concerning which measures best estimate autistic cognitive abilities. Inspection 
time is a processing speed measure associated with general intelligence in 
typical individuals. We therefore investigated autism spectrum performance on 
inspection time in relation to two different general intelligence tests. Autism 
spectrum individuals were divided into autistic and Asperger subgroups according 
to speech development history. Compared to a typical control group, mean 
inspection time for the autistic subgroup but not the Asperger subgroup was 
significantly shorter (by 31%). However, the shorter mean autistic inspection 
time was evident only when groups were matched on Wechsler IQ and disappeared 
when they were matched using Raven's Progressive Matrices. When autism spectrum 
abilities are compared to typical abilities, results may be influenced by speech 
development history as well as by the instrument used for intelligence matching.

2013 APA, all rights reserved

DOI: 10.1037/a0029984
PMID: 23088375 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


136. Seizure. 2013 Jan;22(1):28-32. doi: 10.1016/j.seizure.2012.09.013. Epub 2012 Oct 
23.

The benign spectrum of hypothalamic hamartomas: infrequent epilepsy and normal 
cognition in patients presenting with central precocious puberty.

Cukier P(1), Castro LH, Banaskiwitz N, Teles LR, Ferreira LR, Adda CC, da Costa 
Leite C, Arnhold IJ, Mendonca BB, Latronico AC, Brito VN.

Author information:
(1)Unidade de Endocrinologia do Desenvolvimento, Disciplina de Endocrinologia da 
Faculdade de Medicina da Universidade de São Paulo e Laboratório de Hormônios de 
Genética Molecular LIM/42, São Paulo, Brazil. p.cukier@gmail.com

PURPOSE: Hypothalamic hamartoma (HH) is the main structural cause of central 
precocious puberty (CPP). HH is frequently associated with cognitive impairment 
and epileptic encephalopathies. Disease severity in case series from neurology 
services may be biased towards more neurologically impaired patients.
AIM: To perform a prospective cognitive evaluation in patients with HH 
presenting with CPP in an endocrinology outpatient clinic setting.
METHODS: We evaluated fifteen consecutive patients with CPP due to HH presenting 
to an endocrinology outpatient clinic. CPP was diagnosed at a median age of 0.7 
yr (0.4-7 yr). Mean age at neurologic evaluation was 13.9 yrs. Eight patients 
(53.3%) were male. Epileptic seizures occurred in 5/15 (33%) patients. Two 
patients presented a single unprovoked seizure (SUS). Three patients were 
diagnosed with epilepsy. Cognitive evaluation, using age-appropriate Wechsler 
Intelligence Scale, was performed in 11 patients.
RESULTS: All patients without epilepsy, including two patients with a history of 
a SUS, had normal neurologic and cognitive evaluation. Epilepsy and SUS were 
only seen in patients with sessile HH. Three patients with epilepsy presented 
cognitive or behavioral findings. Reduced intelligence quotients (IQ), in the 
borderline range, were noted in both patients with epilepsy who underwent full 
cognitive evaluation. We found no significant correlation between HH diameter or 
shape and mean full-scale IQ.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients who presented with isolated CPP without epilepsy displayed 
normal cognition when evaluated after a mean period of 13 years. Occurrence of 
epilepsy, seen in a minority of patients, but not of a single seizure, was 
associated with mild cognitive deficit and behavioral disturbances in this case 
series.

Copyright © 2012 British Epilepsy Association. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.seizure.2012.09.013
PMID: 23092686 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


137. Tob Control. 2013 Jul;22(4):e6. doi: 10.1136/tobaccocontrol-2012-050575. Epub 
2012 Oct 23.

Cigarette affordability in Europe.

Blecher E(1), Ross H, Leon ME.

Author information:
(1)International Tobacco Control Research, American Cancer Society, Atlanta, 
Georgia, USA. evan.blecher@cancer.org

OBJECTIVE: To analyze trends in excise taxes, real price and the affordability 
of cigarettes in Europe, and to examine the impact of EU wide tax policies on 
new member states.
DESIGN: We use a sample of 37 European countries with data from 2004 to 2010. 27 
countries are EU member states of which 12 joined in 2004 or 2007 (new members), 
while 10 non-EU countries are included as a comparison. Data is sourced from the 
European Commission and the Economist Intelligence Unit.
RESULTS: The excise tax burden increased in all new member states between 2004 
and 2010 while remaining relatively unchanged in existing member states. In 
2010, the excise tax burden was higher in new (mean 63.8%) than in existing 
member states (mean 59.4%). Although cigarettes were significant cheaper in new 
member states the difference in affordability was narrower between the two 
groups. Excise taxes and prices rose aggressively in new member states while the 
increases in existing member states were smaller. While cigarettes became less 
affordable in most EU member states there was little difference between new and 
existing member states. The average annual percentage change in per-capita 
cigarette consumption was negative in all existing member states and in 9 of 12 
new member states between 2004 and 2010, indicating declining per-capita 
cigarette consumption.
CONCLUSIONS: Joining the EU results in significant increases in excise taxes and 
prices, and declines in affordability. Additionally, the structure of taxes, 
specifically the high excise tax floor resulted in higher taxes and prices.

DOI: 10.1136/tobaccocontrol-2012-050575
PMID: 23092885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


138. J Intellect Disabil Res. 2013 Sep;57(9):874-86. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2788.2012.01648.x. Epub 2012 Oct 24.

Neuropsychological profile in adults with neurofibromatosis type 1 compared to a 
control group.

Descheemaeker MJ(1), Plasschaert E, Frijns JP, Legius E.

Author information:
(1)Center of Human Genetics, University Hospitals of Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.

BACKGROUND: Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) is a common inherited autosomal 
dominant condition, characterised by multiple café-au-lait macules, axillary 
and/or inguinal freckling, iris Lisch nodules and tumours of the nervous system 
such as neurofibromas and optic pathway gliomas. At the same time, NF1 is 
frequently associated with intellectual disabilities across several 
neuropsychological domains. Existing neuropsychological data in NF1 adults are 
limited and sometimes contradictory. Moreover, most studies use a 
non-IQ-controlled norm group for comparison. This study sought to investigate 
specific neuropsychological characteristics in intellectual abilities unrelated 
to the global intellectual capacity.
METHOD: Twenty NF1 adults and an IQ-, age- and gender-matched control group 
completed a comprehensive neuropsychological test battery composed of specific 
cognitive tests investigating visual-spatial abilities and memory, auditory 
memory, selective and sustained attention and executive functioning. A short 
version of the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale - III was also administered to 
both groups.
RESULTS: Norm comparison showed that both groups perform poorly on most 
neuropsychological functions, except for sustained attention. However, 
comparison with the IQ-matched control group showed significantly lower scores 
on visual-spatial abilities and memory, on auditory working memory and on tests 
for cognitive flexibility in NF1 adults. Nevertheless, as the significant 
difference in average estimated IQ score between the NF1 group and the selected 
control group almost reaches the 5% significance level, further analysis is 
needed to include IQ as a covariate. Eventually, problems in visual-spatial 
skills and auditory long-term memory seem to be specific NF1-related deficits, 
while problems in attention and executive functioning are particularly related 
to their general lowered intellectual abilities.
CONCLUSION: Taking into account that primary visual perception problems could be 
part of a more general central coherence deficit while interpreting auditory 
memory problems as possibly related to deficits in language use and 
comprehension, this idea also fits with the observation of several problems in 
social information processing and functioning of NF1 persons.

© 2012 The Authors. Journal of Intellectual Disability Research © 2012 John 
Wiley & Sons Ltd, MENCAP & IASSID.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2788.2012.01648.x
PMID: 23095048 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. Psychol Med. 2013 Aug;43(8):1639-49. doi: 10.1017/S003329171200236X. Epub 2012 
Oct 26.

Patients with bipolar disorders share similar but attenuated prospective memory 
impairments with patients with schizophrenia.

Chan RC(1), Lui SS, Wang Y, Liu AC, Chui WW, Shum DH, Cheung EF.

Author information:
(1)Neuropsychology and Applied Cognitive Neuroscience Laboratory, Key Laboratory 
of Mental Health, Institute of Psychology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 
People's Republic of China. rckchan@psych.ac.cn

BACKGROUND: Prospective memory (PM) refers to the ability to remember to carry 
out an intended action in the future. PM is consistently found to be impaired in 
individuals with schizophrenia. Bipolar disorder and schizophrenia may represent 
conditions along a continuum, and share similar neurocognitive and genetic 
architecture. This study aimed to compare the nature and extent of PM impairment 
in individuals with schizophrenia and bipolar disorder.
METHOD: Participants were 38 out-patients with schizophrenia and 40 out-patients 
with bipolar disorder in an early psychosis intervention programme, and 37 
healthy controls. Time-, event- and activity-based PMs were assessed using a 
dual-task laboratory paradigm. Self-reported PM performance was gauged using the 
Prospective and Retrospective Memory Questionnaire. Analysis of covariance 
(ANCOVA), with intelligence quotient (IQ) and education included as covariates, 
was used to examine group difference on various types of PM. Repeated measures 
of ANCOVA were used to examine the group × PM type interaction effect. 
Correspondence between laboratory and self-reported PM measures was examined 
using correlational analysis.
RESULTS: The group × PM type interaction effect was not significant, but the 
main effect of group was significant. Patients with schizophrenia and patients 
with bipolar disorder both performed more poorly than healthy participants in 
PM. The two clinical groups did not significantly differ in PM. Laboratory and 
self-reported PM measures did not correlate significantly with each other.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with bipolar disorder shared a similar PM impairment with 
those with schizophrenia. Findings of this study extended the similarity in 
neurocognitive impairments between the two psychiatric disorders to PM.

DOI: 10.1017/S003329171200236X
PMID: 23098329 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140. Med Hypotheses. 2013 Jan;80(1):13-6. doi: 10.1016/j.mehy.2012.09.011. Epub 2012 
Oct 23.

The connection between maternal thiamine shortcoming and offspring cognitive 
damage and poverty perpetuation in underprivileged communities across the world.

Dias FM(1), Silva DM, Doyle FC, Ribeiro AM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine and Nursing, Federal University of Viçosa, Viçosa, 
Brazil. fernandomvdias@hotmail.com

The acquisition of cognitive, sensory-motor and social emotional functions 
depend on a proper development of the Central Nervous System (CNS). This set of 
functions, known as intelligence, allows a better adaptation to the environment. 
In the last decades, an increase in the average of intelligence has been 
reported. However, such an increase cannot be observed in an equivalent way in 
economically and social underprivileged regions. Children from those regions are 
in great risk of being affected by mental retardation or impaired cognitive 
development. In later life they will, probably, be unable to transform and 
improve themselves and their communities, perpetuating the poverty of the 
region. Therefore, knowledge of factors involved in CNS development is a matter 
of health closely related to social improvement. Malnutrition throughout 
pregnancy and breastfeeding is clearly identifiable as a cause of damage in CNS 
development. Vitamin B1 (Thiamine) is a micronutrient important to the growth 
and maturity of the CNS. Thiamine shortcoming may affect 50% of pregnant women. 
Thiamine function in cerebral development is still not well known. There is a 
gap in the literature regarding systematical research about the blood thiamine 
concentration throughout the periods of gestation and breastfeeding. These 
studies are relevant in populations with a high level of nutritional 
vulnerability, because in a follow up offspring cognitive exam they could reveal 
if the maternal thiamine deficiency is related to child CNS impairment. This 
paper introduce the hypothesis that thiamine shortcoming during pregnancy and 
breastfeeding is directly related to cognitive impairment of child. Data about 
the neurophysiological role of thiamine, consequences of its shortcoming in 
experimental models, populations under the risk of thiamine shortcoming are 
presented. The hypothesis that maternal thiamine shortcoming causes damage 
related to child cognitive development needs to be considered. Thus, thiamine 
shortcoming during gestation and breastfeeding and its effects on children must 
be studied in many populations in order to know the magnitude of the problem and 
to indicate actions to overcome it.

Copyright © 2012. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mehy.2012.09.011
PMID: 23098375 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


141. J Gerontol B Psychol Sci Soc Sci. 2013 Jul;68(4):495-503. doi: 
10.1093/geronb/gbs092. Epub 2012 Oct 25.

Predictors of successful communication with interactive voice response systems 
in older people.

Miller D(1), Gagnon M, Talbot V, Messier C.

Author information:
(1)School of Psychology, University of Ottawa, Ontario K1N 6N5, Canada.

OBJECTIVES: Interactive voice response (IVR) systems are computer programs that 
can interact with people to provide a number of services from business to health 
care. However, surveys examining people's attitudes toward these systems have 
consistently found that people in general and older people in particular 
strongly dislike these systems. We wanted to determine the memory and cognitive 
abilities that predict successful IVR interactions for older people.
METHOD: We compared the performance of 185 older adults (aged 65 and older) on 
normed cognitive tests (the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale fourth edition and 
the Wechsler Memory Scale fourth edition) with their performance on 4 real-life 
IVR systems that included fact-finding at governmental agencies and plane ticket 
reservation.
RESULTS: The results indicated that adults aged 65 and older experience 
significant difficulties in interacting with IVR systems. A significant number 
of people (20.5%) could not complete any of the tasks. Participants who could 
not complete any task were older and had the lowest full-scale IQ. However, 
there was little difference between the age of participants who completed 1, 2, 
3, or 4 tasks. Rather, auditory memory and working memory were the best overall 
predictors for success in IVR tasks.
DISCUSSION: The impact of poorer auditory memory and working memory is 
compounded by programming practices that increase the demand on these abilities 
and create unnecessary difficulties. Successful use of IVR systems could 
eventually complement in person health services.

DOI: 10.1093/geronb/gbs092
PMID: 23103382 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. J Autism Dev Disord. 2013 Jun;43(6):1367-79. doi: 10.1007/s10803-012-1692-8.

Neurocognitive functioning in adolescents with autism spectrum disorder.

Reinvall O(1), Voutilainen A, Kujala T, Korkman M.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Behavioural Sciences, University of Helsinki, P.O. Box 9, 00014, 
Helsinki, Finland. outi.reinvall@helsinki.fi

There is a paucity of research studying comprehensive neurocognitive profiles of 
adolescents with higher functioning autism spectrum disorders (ASD). This study 
compared the neurocognitive profiles of higher functioning adolescents with ASD 
(n = 30, mean age 13.5) with that of typically developing adolescents (n = 30; 
mean age 13.7). Adolescents with ASD demonstrated a significantly higher mean 
Verbal Intelligence Quotient compared to the standardized mean. However, the ASD 
group had significantly lower scores than the control group on the subtests 
Auditory Attention and Response Set, Memory for Faces, Visuomotor Precision, and 
Design Copying. Thus, particular strengths were seen in verbal reasoning, while 
weaknesses were observed in auditory attention, facial recognition memory, and 
visuomotor functions in adolescents with ASD.

DOI: 10.1007/s10803-012-1692-8
PMID: 23104618 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. J Health Psychol. 2013 Sep;18(9):1121-8. doi: 10.1177/1359105312459097. Epub 
2012 Oct 26.

Parents' emotional intelligence and children's type I diabetes management.

Zysberg L(1), Lang T, Zisberg A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Tel Hai College, Tel Hai, Israel, 12210. 
Leehu@telhai.ac.il

We hypothesized that parents' emotional intelligence associates with their 
children's type I diabetes outcomes. Eighty-one parents, the main caregivers of 
their diabetic children, filled out two measures of emotional intelligence and a 
demographic questionnaire. Three indicators of diabetes management were 
collected from the patients' files: hemoglobin A1c, mean blood tests per day, 
and mean blood glucose levels. Emotional intelligence associated with all 
glycemic management indices, though differences were found between the two 
measures. Of the demographic factors, income level showed some association with 
the outcome measures. The results are discussed in light of existing theories 
and models.

DOI: 10.1177/1359105312459097
PMID: 23104994 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


144. J Child Neurol. 2013 Dec;28(12):1668-72. doi: 10.1177/0883073812462626. Epub 
2012 Oct 30.

Atypical hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy type IV with neither mental 
retardation nor pain insensitivity.

Jung CL(1), Ki CS, Kim BJ, Lee JH, Sung KS, Kim JW, Park YS.

Author information:
(1)1Department of Laboratory Medicine and Genetics, Samsung Medical Center, 
Sungkyunkwan University School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

Hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy type IV is an autosomal recessive 
disorder characterized by severe mental retardation and self-mutilation-related 
complications. Recently, we investigated a 16-year-old Korean boy with normal 
intelligence. He had preserved pain sensation but was suspected of having 
hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy type IV because of the recurrent 
bone fractures and painless joint destruction in the absence of any predisposing 
medical conditions. Genetic analysis of the NTRK1 gene revealed compound 
heterozygous mutations including c.851-33T>A and c.2303C>T (p.Pro768Leu) in the 
NTRK1 gene. The p.Pro768Leu mutation has been identified in 2 Japanese patients 
with a mild phenotype. Therefore, although it is rare, hereditary sensory and 
autonomic neuropathy type IV should be considered in patients with recurrent 
bone fractures and painless joint destruction who do not have any predisposing 
conditions even when they do not have typical clinical features such as mental 
retardation or pain insensitivity.

DOI: 10.1177/0883073812462626
PMID: 23112235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


145. Telemed J E Health. 2013 Jan;19(1):31-5. doi: 10.1089/tmj.2011.0114. Epub 2012 
Oct 31.

Text-to-audiovisual speech synthesizer for children with learning disabilities.

Mendi E(1), Bayrak C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Computer Science, University of Arkansas at Little Rock, Little 
Rock, AR 72204, USA. esmendi@ualr.edu

Learning disabilities affect the ability of children to learn, despite their 
having normal intelligence. Assistive tools can highly increase functional 
capabilities of children with learning disorders such as writing, reading, or 
listening. In this article, we describe a text-to-audiovisual synthesizer that 
can serve as an assistive tool for such children. The system automatically 
converts an input text to audiovisual speech, providing synchronization of the 
head, eye, and lip movements of the three-dimensional face model with 
appropriate facial expressions and word flow of the text. The proposed system 
can enhance speech perception and help children having learning deficits to 
improve their chances of success.

DOI: 10.1089/tmj.2011.0114
PMID: 23113796 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. J Pers Assess. 2013;95(4):398-406. doi: 10.1080/00223891.2012.735301. Epub 2012 
Oct 31.

The validity of the Health-Relevant Personality Inventory (HP5i) and the Junior 
Temperament and Character Inventory (JTCI) among adolescents referred for a 
substance misuse problem.

Hemphälä M(1), Gustavsson JP, Tengström A.

Author information:
(1)Division of Psychiatry, Research Centre for Adolescent Psycho-Social Health, 
Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Karolinska Institute, Sweden. 
malin.hemphala@sll.se

The aim was to study the validity of 2 personality instruments, the 
Health-Relevant Personality Inventory (HP5i) and the Junior Temperament and 
Character Inventory (JTCI), among adolescents with a substance use problem. 
Clinical interviews were completed with 180 adolescents and followed up after 12 
months. Discriminant validity was demonstrated in the lack of correlation to 
intelligence in both instruments' scales. Two findings were in support of 
convergent validity: Negative affectivity (HP5i) and harm avoidance (JTCI) were 
correlated to internalizing symptoms, and impulsivity (HP5i) and novelty seeking 
(JTCI) were correlated to externalizing symptoms. The predictive validity of 
JTCI was partly supported. When psychiatric symptoms at baseline were controlled 
for, cooperativeness predicted conduct disorder after 12 months. Summarizing, 
both instruments can be used in adolescent clinical samples to tailor treatment 
efforts, although some scales need further investigation. It is important to 
include personality assessment when evaluating psychiatric problems in 
adolescents.

DOI: 10.1080/00223891.2012.735301
PMID: 23113813 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


147. Epilepsy Behav. 2013 Mar;26(3):303-12. doi: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2012.09.014. Epub 
2012 Oct 30.

Imaging and genetics of language and cognition in pediatric epilepsy.

Addis L(1), Lin JJ, Pal DK, Hermann B, Caplan R.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Psychiatry, University of London, London, UK.

This paper presents translational aspects of imaging and genetic studies of 
language and cognition in children with epilepsy of average intelligence. It 
also discusses current unanswered translational questions in each of these 
research areas. A brief review of multimodal imaging and language study findings 
shows that abnormal structure and function, as well as plasticity and 
reorganization in language-related cortical regions, are found both in children 
with epilepsy with normal language skills and in those with linguistic deficits. 
The review on cognition highlights that multiple domains of impaired cognition 
and abnormalities in brain structure and/or connectivity are evident early on in 
childhood epilepsy and might be specific for epilepsy syndrome. The description 
of state-of-the-art genetic analyses that can be used to explain the convergence 
of language impairment and Rolandic epilepsy includes a discussion of the 
methodological difficulties involved in these analyses. Two junior researchers 
describe how their current and planned studies address some of the unanswered 
translational questions regarding cognition and imaging and the genetic analysis 
of speech sound disorder, reading, and centrotemporal spikes in Rolandic 
epilepsy.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2012.09.014
PMCID: PMC3732317
PMID: 23116771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


148. Dev Med Child Neurol. 2013 Feb;55(2):167-172. doi: 10.1111/dmcn.12013. Epub 2012 
Nov 2.

Brain magnetic resonance imaging and motor and intellectual functioning in 86 
patients born at term with spastic diplegia.

Numata Y(1)(2), Onuma A(1), Kobayashi Y(3), Sato-Shirai I(1)(2), Tanaka S(1), 
Kobayashi S(1), Wakusawa K(1), Inui T(1), Kure S(2), Haginoya K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Neurology, Takuto Rehabilitation Center for Children, 
Sendai.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, Tohoku University School of Medicine, Sendai.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, Nishitaga National Hospital, Sendai, Japan.

Comment in
    Dev Med Child Neurol. 2013 Feb;55(2):103-4.

AIM: To investigate the association between magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) 
patterns and motor function, epileptic episodes, and IQ or developmental 
quotient in patients born at term with spastic diplegia.
METHOD: Eighty-six patients born at term with cerebral palsy (CP) and spastic 
diplegia (54 males, 32 females; median age 20 y, range 7-42 y) among 829 
patients with CP underwent brain MRI between 1990 and 2008. The MRI and clinical 
findings were analysed retrospectively. Intellectual disability was classified 
according to the Enjoji developmental test or the Wechsler Intelligence Scale 
for Children (3rd edition).
RESULTS: The median ages at diagnosis of CP, assignment of Gross Motor Function 
Classification System (GMFCS) level, cognitive assessment, and MRI were 2 years 
(range 5 mo-8 y), 6 years (2 y 8 mo-19 y), 6 years (1 y 4 mo-19 y), and 7 years 
(10 mo-30 y) respectively. MRI included normal findings (41.9%), periventricular 
leukomalacia, hypomyelination, and porencephaly/periventricular venous 
infarction. The frequency of patients in GMFCS levels III to V and intellectual 
disability did not differ between those with normal and abnormal MRI findings. 
Patients with normal MRI findings had significantly fewer epileptic episodes 
than those with abnormal ones (p=0.001).
INTERPRETATION: Varied MRI findings, as well as the presence of severe motor 
dysfunction and intellectual disability (despite normal MRI), suggest that 
patients born at term with spastic diplegia had heterogeneous and unidentified 
pathophysiology.

© The Authors. Developmental Medicine & Child Neurology © 2012 Mac Keith Press.

DOI: 10.1111/dmcn.12013
PMID: 23121133 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149. Res Dev Disabil. 2013 Jan;34(1):687-94. doi: 10.1016/j.ridd.2012.09.012. Epub 
2012 Nov 1.

Everyday memory in children with developmental coordination disorder.

Chen IC(1), Tsai PL, Hsu YW, Ma HI, Lai HA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Occupational Therapy, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan 
City, Taiwan.

Children with developmental coordination disorder (DCD) have deficits in working 
memory, but little is known about the everyday memory of these children in 
real-life situations. We investigated the everyday memory function in children 
with DCD, and explored the specific profile of everyday memory across different 
domains. Nineteen children with DCD and 19 typically developing (TD) children 
participated in the study. Their everyday memory performance was evaluated using 
the Rivermead Behavioral Memory Test for Children, which showed that 52.6% of 
the children with DCD had everyday memory deficits. The overall everyday memory 
scores of the DCD group were significantly lower than those of the controls, 
particularly in the verbal and visual memory domains. Pearson correlation 
analysis indicated significant associations between verbal intelligence and 
memory scores. Analysis of covariance with verbal intelligence as a covariate 
showed no significant differences between groups in memory scores. Mediator 
analysis supported the notion that everyday memory deficits in children with DCD 
were fully mediated through verbal intelligence. We provide evidence of everyday 
memory deficits in most of the children with DCD, and hypothesize that language 
abilities are their underlying cause. The clinical implications of these 
findings and recommendations for additional research are discussed.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ridd.2012.09.012
PMID: 23123882 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


150. Schizophr Bull. 2013 May;39(3):507-17. doi: 10.1093/schbul/sbs120. Epub 2012 Nov 
3.

Improving social cognition in schizophrenia: a pilot intervention combining 
computerized social cognition training with cognitive remediation.

Lindenmayer JP(1), McGurk SR, Khan A, Kaushik S, Thanju A, Hoffman L, Valdez G, 
Wance D, Herrmann E.

Author information:
(1)Psychopharmacology Research Department, Manhattan Psychiatric Center, 600 E 
125 St, Ward's Island, NY 10035, USA. Lindenmayer@nki.rfmh.org

Comment in
    Schizophr Bull. 2013 May;39(3):499-500.

BACKGROUND: Social cognition is significantly impaired in schizophrenia and 
contributes to poor community functioning. This study examined whether cognitive 
remediation (CR; COGPACK), shown to improve neurocognition, improves an integral 
component of social cognition, emotion perception, compared with CR combined 
with a computerized Emotion Perception intervention (Mind Reading: Interactive 
Guide to Emotions [MRIGE]).
METHODS: 59 stable schizophrenia or schizoaffective predominantly inpatients 
were randomized to either CR (N=27) alone or CR+MRIGE (N=32) for 12 weeks. 
Assessments included the Facial Emotion Identification Task (FEIT), Facial 
Emotion Discrimination Task (FEDT), MCCB-MATRICS, Personal and Social 
Performance Scale, and the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale.
RESULTS: There was a significant group-by-time effect on FEIT (F=11.509, 
P=.004); CR+MRIGE demonstrated signiﬁcantly greater improvement than CR alone 
(CR+MRIGE, Z=1.89, P=.05; CR alone Z=0.57, P=.13). There was significant 
group-by-time effect on FEDT (F=5.663, P=.022); CR+MRIGE demonstrated 
signiﬁcantly greater improvement than CR alone (CR+MRIGE, Z=1.90, P=.05; CR 
alone Z=0.67, P=.21). There was also a significant group by time effect for 
social cognition, measured by the Mayer-Salovey-Caruso Emotional Intelligence 
Test (F=5.473, P=.050): CR+MRIGE demonstrated significantly greater improvement 
than CR alone (CR+MRIGE, Z=1.98, P=.02; CR alone, Z=1.00, P=.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Combined CR with emotion perception remediation produced greater 
improvements in emotion recognition, emotion discrimination, social functioning, 
and neurocognition compared with CR alone in chronic schizophrenia.

DOI: 10.1093/schbul/sbs120
PMCID: PMC3627756
PMID: 23125396 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


151. J Neuropsychol. 2013 Mar;7(1):91-106. doi: 10.1111/j.1748-6653.2012.02037.x. 
Epub 2012 Nov 5.

Perception of affective prosody in patients at an early stage of 
relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis.

Kraemer M(1), Herold M, Uekermann J, Kis B, Daum I, Wiltfang J, Berlit P, Diehl 
RR, Abdel-Hamid M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Alfried Krupp von Bohlen und Halbach Hospital, 
Essen, Germany. markus.kraemer1977@gmx.de

Cognitive dysfunction is well known in patients suffering from multiple 
sclerosis (MS) and has been described for many years. Cognitive impairment, 
memory, and attention deficits seem to be features of advanced MS stages, 
whereas depression and emotional instability already occur in early stages of 
the disease. However, little is known about processing of affective prosody in 
patients in early stages of relapsing-remitting MS (RRMS). In this study, tests 
assessing attention, memory, and processing of affective prosody were 
administered to 25 adult patients with a diagnosis of RRMS at an early stage and 
to 25 healthy controls (HC). Early stages of the disease were defined as being 
diagnosed with RRMS in the last 2 years and having an Expanded Disability Status 
Scale (EDSS) of 2 or lower. Patients and HC were comparable in intelligence 
quotient (IQ), educational level, age, handedness, and gender. Patients with 
early stages of RRMS performed below the control group with respect to the 
subtests 'discrimination of affective prosody' and 'matching of affective 
prosody to facial expression' for the emotion 'angry' of the 'Tübingen Affect 
Battery'. These deficits were not related to executive performance. Our findings 
suggest that emotional prosody comprehension is deficient in young patients with 
early stages of RRMS. Deficits in discriminating affective prosody early in the 
disease may make misunderstandings and poor communication more likely. This 
might negatively influence interpersonal relationships and quality of life in 
patients with RRMS.

© 2012 The British Psychological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1748-6653.2012.02037.x
PMID: 23126275 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


152. J Neurotrauma. 2013 Feb 15;30(4):237-46. doi: 10.1089/neu.2012.2685. Epub 2013 
Jan 24.

Risk factors for postconcussion symptom reporting after traumatic brain injury 
in U.S. military service members.

Lange RT(1), Brickell T, French LM, Ivins B, Bhagwat A, Pancholi S, Iverson GL.

Author information:
(1)Defense and Veterans Brain Injury Center, North Bethesda, Maryland 20852, 
USA. rlange@dvbic.org

The purpose of this study was to identify factors that are predictive of, or 
associated with, postconcussion symptom reporting after traumatic brain injury 
(TBI) in the U.S. military. Participants were 125 U.S. military service members 
(age: M=29.6 years, standard deviation [SD]=8.9, range=18-56 years) who 
sustained a TBI, divided into two groups based on symptom criteria for 
postconcussional disorder (PCD): PCD-Present (n=65) and PCD-Absent (n=60). 
Participants completed a neuropsychological evaluation at Walter Reed Army 
Medical Center (M=9.4 months after injury, SD=9.9; range: 1.1 to 44.8). Factors 
examined included demographic characteristics, injury-related variables, 
psychological testing, and effort testing. There were no significant group 
differences for age, sex, education, race, estimated premorbid intelligence, 
number of deployments, combat versus non-combat related injury, or mechanism of 
injury (p>0.098 for all). There were significant main effects for severity of 
body injury, duration of loss of consciousness, duration of post-traumatic 
amnesia, intracranial abnormality, time tested post-injury, possible symptom 
exaggeration, poor effort, depression, and traumatic stress (p<0.044 for all). 
PCD symptom reporting was most strongly associated with possible symptom 
exaggeration, poor effort, depression, and traumatic stress. PCD rarely occurred 
in the absence of depression, traumatic stress, possible symptom exaggeration, 
or poor effort (n=7, 5.6%). Many factors unrelated to brain injury were 
influential in self-reported postconcussion symptoms in this sample. Clinicians 
cannot assume uncritically that endorsement of items on a postconcussion symptom 
checklist is indicative of residual effects from a brain injury.

DOI: 10.1089/neu.2012.2685
PMID: 23126461 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


153. Forensic Sci Int. 2013 Jul 10;230(1-3):137-46. doi: 
10.1016/j.forsciint.2012.10.010. Epub 2012 Nov 3.

Integrating forensic information in a crime intelligence database.

Rossy Q(1), Ioset S, Dessimoz D, Ribaux O.

Author information:
(1)Université de Lausanne, Institut de Police Scientifique, Batochime, 1015 
Lausanne-Dorigny, Switzerland. quentin.rossy@unil.ch

Since 2008, intelligence units of six states of the western part of Switzerland 
have been sharing a common database for the analysis of high volume crimes. On a 
daily basis, events reported to the police are analysed, filtered and classified 
to detect crime repetitions and interpret the crime environment. Several 
forensic outcomes are integrated in the system such as matches of traces with 
persons, and links between scenes detected by the comparison of forensic case 
data. Systematic procedures have been settled to integrate links assumed mainly 
through DNA profiles, shoemarks patterns and images. A statistical outlook on a 
retrospective dataset of series from 2009 to 2011 of the database informs for 
instance on the number of repetition detected or confirmed and increased by 
forensic case data. Time needed to obtain forensic intelligence in regard with 
the type of marks treated, is seen as a critical issue. Furthermore, the 
underlying integration process of forensic intelligence into the crime 
intelligence database raised several difficulties in regards of the acquisition 
of data and the models used in the forensic databases. Solutions found and 
adopted operational procedures are described and discussed. This process form 
the basis to many other researches aimed at developing forensic intelligence 
models.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.forsciint.2012.10.010
PMID: 23127656 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


154. Res Autism Spectr Disord. 2013;7(2):221-234. doi: 10.1016/j.rasd.2012.09.007. 
Epub 2012 Nov 1.

Corpus Callosum Area in Children and Adults with Autism.

Prigge MB(1), Lange N, Bigler ED, Merkley TL, Neeley ES, Abildskov TJ, Froehlich 
AL, Nielsen JA, Cooperrider JR, Cariello AN, Ravichandran C, Alexander AL, 
Lainhart JE.

Author information:
(1)Interdepartmental Program in Neuroscience, University of Utah, Salt Lake 
City, UT, USA ; Department of Psychiatry, School of Medicine, University of 
Utah, Salt Lake City, UT, USA.

Despite repeated findings of abnormal corpus callosum structure in autism, the 
developmental trajectories of corpus callosum growth in the disorder have not 
yet been reported. In this study, we examined corpus callosum size from a 
developmental perspective across a 30-year age range in a large cross-sectional 
sample of individuals with autism compared to a typically developing sample. 
Midsagittal corpus callosum area and the 7 Witelson subregions were examined in 
68 males with autism (mean age 14.1 years; range 3-36 years) and 47 males with 
typical development (mean age 15.3 years; range 4-29 years). Controlling for 
total brain volume, increased variability in total corpus callosum area was 
found in autism. In autism, increased midsagittal areas were associated with 
reduced severity of autism behaviors, higher intelligence, and faster speed of 
processing (p=0.003, p=0.011, p=0.013, respectively). A trend toward group 
differences in isthmus development was found (p=0.029, uncorrected). These 
results suggest that individuals with autism benefit functionally from increased 
corpus callosum area. Our cross-sectional examination also shows potential 
maturational abnormalities in autism, a finding that should be examined further 
with longitudinal datasets.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rasd.2012.09.007
PMCID: PMC3487714
PMID: 23130086


155. Cogn Emot. 2013;27(5):783-99. doi: 10.1080/02699931.2012.739999. Epub 2012 Nov 
8.

Nonverbal signals speak up: association between perceptual nonverbal dominance 
and emotional intelligence.

Jacob H(1), Kreifelts B, Brück C, Nizielski S, Schütz A, Wildgruber D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University of Tübingen, Tübingen, 
Germany. HeikeJacob@gmx.de

Emotional communication uses verbal and nonverbal means. In case of conflicting 
signals, nonverbal information is assumed to have a stronger impact. It is 
unclear, however, whether perceptual nonverbal dominance varies between 
individuals and whether it is linked to emotional intelligence. Using 
audiovisual stimulus material comprising verbal and nonverbal emotional cues 
that were varied independently, perceptual nonverbal dominance profiles and 
their relations to emotional intelligence were examined. Nonverbal dominance was 
found in every participant, ranging from 55 to 100%. Moreover, emotional 
intelligence, particularly the ability to understand emotions, correlated 
positively with nonverbal dominance. Furthermore, higher overall emotional 
intelligence as well as a higher ability to understand emotions were linked to 
smaller reaction time differences between emotionally incongruent and congruent 
stimuli. The association between perceptual nonverbal dominance and emotional 
intelligence, and more specifically the ability to understand emotions, might 
reflect an adaptive process driven by the experience of higher authenticity in 
nonverbal cues.

DOI: 10.1080/02699931.2012.739999
PMID: 23134564 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


156. J Pers Assess. 2013;95(4):332-42. doi: 10.1080/00223891.2012.736906. Epub 2012 
Nov 8.

Measuring the ability to perceive the emotional connotations of written 
language.

Barchard KA(1), Hensley S, Anderson ED, Walker HE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Nevada-Las Vegas, 4505 Maryland 
Parkway, Las Vegas, NV 89154–5030; USA, barchard@unlv.nevada.edu

Emotionally laden writing is essential to our personal and professional lives. 
The purpose of this article was to design and evaluate a new test of the ability 
to decode the emotional connotations of written material. A series of 3 studies 
(totaling 457 participants) were used to demonstrate that the Metaphors Test 
measures a single construct, has strong internal consistency, has strong 
convergent validity with tests related to emotional and social intelligence, and 
has strong discriminant validity with vocabulary and personality. Confirmatory 
factor analyses demonstrated that the Metaphors Test is more closely associated 
with emotion perception than emotional understanding. Unlike most other tests 
that tap this skill, the stimuli for the Metaphors Test do not include any 
explicit emotion words; it is therefore a unique and valuable measure of emotion 
perception.

DOI: 10.1080/00223891.2012.736906
PMID: 23136950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


157. J Periodontol. 2013 Aug;84(8):1126-33. doi: 10.1902/jop.2012.120403. Epub 2012 
Nov 9.

The effect of esthetic crown lengthening on perceptions of a patient's 
attractiveness, friendliness, trustworthiness, intelligence, and 
self-confidence.

Malkinson S(1), Waldrop TC, Gunsolley JC, Lanning SK, Sabatini R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Periodontics, Virginia Commonwealth University School of 
Dentistry, Richmond, VA 23298, USA.

BACKGROUND: Smile esthetics have been shown to play a major role in the 
perception of whether a person is attractive, and whether they are perceived as 
friendly, trustworthy, intelligent, and self-confident. A proposed major 
determinant of the esthetics of a smile is the amount of gingival display, which 
can be excessive in cases of altered passive eruption. The aim of this study is 
to see whether altering the amount of gingival display of patients would affect 
dental professionals' and laypersons' perceptions of the aforementioned social 
parameters.
METHODS: Patients were identified as having altered passive eruption and 
excessive gingival display. Smiling "control" photographs were taken and then 
digitally altered so as to lengthen the teeth and thus reduce the amount of 
gingival display. These became the "test" photographs. The control and test 
photographs were shown in random order. The control group of evaluators 
consisted of senior dental students, and the test group of evaluators comprised 
students who had no formal dental training. Groups were asked to rate, on a 
visual analog scale, each picture's attractiveness, friendliness, 
trustworthiness, intelligence, and self-confidence.
RESULTS: The test pictures with less gingival display were consistently and 
statistically significantly rated higher for all five social parameters than 
were their control counterparts (P <0.0001). When analyzed as an isolated 
effect, there were no statistically significant differences between the control 
group and the test group of evaluators when rating the pictures. Pictures 
depicting African Americans were judged to be more trustworthy (P = 0.0467) and 
self-confident (P = 0.0490) than pictures depicting white individuals. Pictures 
depicting women were judged to be more trustworthy (P = 0.0159) and intelligent 
(P = 0.0329) than pictures depicting men. All the social parameters were 
positively and statistically significantly correlated with each other (P 
<0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: Excessive gingival display did negatively affect how attractive a 
person's smile is judged to be. In addition, how friendly, trustworthy, 
intelligent, and self-confident a person was perceived to be was inversely 
related to the amount of gingival display. Untrained laypeople were just as 
sensitive to these differences as senior dental students.

DOI: 10.1902/jop.2012.120403
PMID: 23137007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


158. Res Dev Disabil. 2013 Jan;34(1):710-20. doi: 10.1016/j.ridd.2012.10.005. Epub 
2012 Nov 5.

Association between early attention-deficit/hyperactivity symptoms and current 
verbal and visuo-spatial short-term memory.

Gau SS(1), Chiang HL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, National Taiwan University Hospital, No 7, 
Chung-Shan South Road, Taipei, Taiwan. gaushufe@ntu.edu.tw

Deficits in short-term memory are common in adolescents with 
attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), but their current ADHD symptoms 
cannot well predict their short-term performance. Taking a developmental 
perspective, we wanted to clarify the association between ADHD symptoms at early 
childhood and short-term memory in late childhood and adolescence. The 
participants included 401 patients with a clinical diagnosis of DSM-IV ADHD, 213 
siblings, and 176 unaffected controls aged 8-17 years (mean age, 12.02 ± 2.24). 
All participants and their mothers were interviewed using the Chinese Kiddie 
Epidemiologic version of the Schedule for Affective Disorders and Schizophrenia 
to obtain information about ADHD symptoms and other psychiatric disorders 
retrospectively, at an earlier age first, then currently. The participants were 
assessed with the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children--3rd edition, 
including Digit Span, and the Spatial working memory task of the Cambridge 
Neuropsychological Test Automated Battery. Multi-level regression models were 
used for data analysis. Although crude analyses revealed that inattention, 
hyperactivity, and impulsivity symptoms significantly predicted deficits in 
short-term memory, only inattention symptoms had significant effects (all 
p<0.001) in a model that included all three ADHD symptoms. After further 
controlling for comorbidity, age of assessment, treatment with methylphenidate, 
and Full-scale IQ, the severity of childhood inattention symptoms was still 
significantly associated with worse verbal (p = 0.008) and spatial (p ranging 
from 0.017 to 0.002) short-term memory at the current assessment. Therefore, our 
findings suggest that earlier inattention symptoms are associated with impaired 
verbal and visuo-spatial short-term memory at a later development stage. 
Impaired short-term memory in adolescence can be detected earlier by screening 
for the severity of inattention in childhood.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ridd.2012.10.005
PMID: 23137723 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


159. J Affect Disord. 2013 May;147(1-3):441-5. doi: 10.1016/j.jad.2012.09.017. Epub 
2012 Nov 8.

Neurocognitive functioning in the prodrome of mania--an exploratory study.

Ratheesh A(1), Lin A, Nelson B, Wood SJ, Brewer W, Betts J, Berk M, McGorry P, 
Yung AR, Bechdolf A.

Author information:
(1)Orygen Youth Health, Melbourne, Australia. Aswin.Ratheesh@mh.org.au

BACKGROUND: Cognitive deficits have been well documented in individuals with 
bipolar disorder (BD) after the first episode of mania. However, little is known 
about the presence of such deficits prior to the initial manic episode.
METHODS: Participants were recruited from a cohort of 416 young people who were 
at ultra-high risk (UHR) for psychosis and were followed up between 4 and 13 
years later. The current report is of 16 participants who developed BD over a 
mean follow-up period of 8.2 years (UHR-BD). Baseline demographic, clinical and 
neurocognitive assessment scores were compared with those of 46 age and gender 
matched UHR subjects who did not transition to psychosis or BD over the 
follow-up period (UHR-NT) and 66 healthy comparison subjects.
RESULTS: UHR-BD subjects had lower global functioning at baseline compared with 
UHR-NT subjects. There were no significant differences between UHR-BD and UHR-NT 
subjects on baseline demographic and neurocognitive characteristics. UHR-BD 
subjects had lower test performance than HC on picture completion, Trail-Making 
Tests and measures of global intelligence.
LIMITATIONS: Small sample size, limited and variable neurocognitive tests 
utilised and the confounding effects of psychotic symptoms might have impacted 
on the ability to detect meaningful clinical and neurocognitive differences.
CONCLUSIONS: In this exploratory study, neurocognition in young people who later 
develop BD is similar to those of subjects who are at a high risk for psychotic 
disorders, but there may be certain neurocognitive markers that distinguish this 
group from unaffected and healthy young people.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2012.09.017
PMID: 23141631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


160. J Vasc Surg. 2013 Jan;57(1):125-30. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2012.07.043. Epub 2012 
Nov 8.

Cognitive outcome differences on the side of carotid artery stenting.

Ishihara H(1), Oka F, Shirao S, Kato S, Sadahiro H, Osaki M, Suzuki M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Yamaguchi University School of Medicine, 
Yamaguchi, Japan. hishi@yamaguchi-u.ac.jp

OBJECTIVE: The right and left sides of the brain play different roles in 
cognition. Therefore, the side of treatment should be taken into consideration 
when evaluating cognitive outcome following revascularization. Thus, we designed 
a study to evaluate changes in right hemisphere cognitive function in patients 
undergoing right carotid artery stentings (CAS) and left hemispheric cognitive 
function in patients undergoing left CAS. In addition, we studied CAS-related 
changes in regional cerebral blood flow to determine potential correlations with 
changes in cognitive function.
METHODS: We performed a prospective assessment of 39 CAS patients, all of whom 
were right-handed. Patients with contralateral stenotic lesions were excluded. 
Twenty-one patients underwent CAS of the right internal carotid artery (Right 
CAS group) and 18 underwent CAS of the left internal carotid artery (Left CAS 
group). Neuropsychological testing was performed preoperatively and 6 months 
after endovascular treatment. Cerebral blood flow was determined by 123I-labeled 
N-isopropyl-p-iodoamphetamine single-photon emission computed tomography before 
and 6 months after CAS.
RESULTS: In the Right CAS group, postoperative performance intelligence quotient 
score (91.1±18.2) was significantly improved compared with the preoperative 
score (84.9±16.7; P<.001). In the Left CAS group, postoperative verbal 
intelligence quotient score (104.0±18.8) was significantly higher than that 
before endovascular treatment (97.9±15.8; P<.005). Postoperative regional 
cerebral blood flow was not significantly different from that before 
endovascular treatment in either group. However, regional cerebrovascular 
reactivity of the treated side showed significant improvement after treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Amelioration of cognitive function may be dependent on the side of 
revascularization. Performance intelligence quotient improved after CAS in 
patients with severe carotid artery stenosis on the right side. Verbal 
intelligence quotient also improved on the left side after endovascular 
treatment. These effects seemed to involve improvement in regional 
cerebrovascular reactivity by CAS.

Copyright © 2013 Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Mosby, Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2012.07.043
PMID: 23141681 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


161. J Int Neuropsychol Soc. 2013 Jan;19(1):88-95. doi: 10.1017/S1355617712000999. 
Epub 2012 Nov 12.

Postconcussive complaints, cognition, symptom attribution and effort among 
veterans.

Larson EB(1), Kondiles BR, Starr CR, Zollman FS.

Author information:
(1)Brain Injury Medicine and Rehabilitation Program, Rehabilitation Institute of 
Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 60611, USA. elarson@ric.org

The etiology of postconcussive symptoms is not clearly understood. Development 
of etiological models of those symptoms will be helpful for accurate diagnosis 
and for planning effective treatment. Such a model should characterize the role 
of subject characteristics (education, premorbid intelligence), social 
psychological factors and symptom validity. Toward that end, the present study 
examined the association of postconcussive complaints and cognitive performance 
with symptom attribution and level of effort on testing. In a sample of 155 
veterans, attribution to concussion was associated with endorsement of more 
severe postconcussive complaints, after controlling for the effects of other 
factors such as subject characteristics. Similarly, effort was associated with 
cognitive performance after controlling for the effects of these other factors. 
The present findings are consistent with previous reports that illness 
perception and effort on testing are associated with postconcussive complaints. 
This supports previous recommendations to routinely educate all concussion 
patients immediately after injury to reduce distorted perceptions and related 
persistent complaints. Finally, these findings highlight a need for routine 
assessment of patients' perception of their injury to identify cases that may 
require psychotherapy to address any misattributions that develop.

DOI: 10.1017/S1355617712000999
PMID: 23146625 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


162. Psychol Assess. 2013 Mar;25(1):61-70. doi: 10.1037/a0030548. Epub 2012 Nov 12.

Formulation of the age-education index: measuring age and education effects in 
neuropsychological performance.

Lam M(1), Eng GK(1), Rapisarda A(1), Subramaniam M(1), Kraus M(2), Keefe RSE(2), 
Collinson SL(3).

Author information:
(1)Research Division.
(2)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Duke University.
(3)Department of Psychology, National University of Singapore.

The complex interplay of education, age, and cognitive performance on various 
neuropsychological tests is examined in the current study. New education indices 
were formulated and further investigated to reveal how age and education 
variances work together to account for performance on neuropsychological tests. 
Participants were 830 English-speaking ethnic Chinese. Neuropsychological 
measures such as Verbal Memory, Digit Sequencing, Token Motor Task, Semantic 
Fluency, Symbol Coding, Tower of London, Judgment of Line Orientation, and 
Matrix Reasoning of the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale were administered. 
Education was measured by total years of education and adjusted years of 
education, as well as ratios of both measures with age. Age and education were 
associated with neuropsychological performance. Adjusted years of education was 
associated with fluency and higher cognitive processes, while the ratio between 
adjusted years of education and age was associated with tasks implicating 
working memory. Changes in education modalities implicated tasks requiring 
language abilities. Education and age represent key neurodevelopmental 
milestones. In light of our findings, special consideration should to be given 
when neuropsychological assessments are carried out in cross-cultural contexts 
and in societies where educational systems and pedagogy tend to be complex.

PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2013 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/a0030548
PMID: 23148648 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


163. Psychol Assess. 2013 Jun;25(2):496-508. doi: 10.1037/a0030676. Epub 2012 Nov 12.

Further insights on the French WISC-IV factor structure through Bayesian 
structural equation modeling.

Golay P(1), Reverte I(1), Rossier J(2), Favez N(1), Lecerf T(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Psychology and Educational Sciences, University of Geneva.
(2)Institute of Psychology, University of Lausanne.

The interpretation of the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children--Fourth 
Edition (WISC-IV) is based on a 4-factor model, which is only partially 
compatible with the mainstream Cattell-Horn-Carroll (CHC) model of intelligence 
measurement. The structure of cognitive batteries is frequently analyzed via 
exploratory factor analysis and/or confirmatory factor analysis. With classical 
confirmatory factor analysis, almost all cross-loadings between latent variables 
and measures are fixed to zero in order to allow the model to be identified. 
However, inappropriate zero cross-loadings can contribute to poor model fit, 
distorted factors, and biased factor correlations; most important, they do not 
necessarily faithfully reflect theory. To deal with these methodological and 
theoretical limitations, we used a new statistical approach, Bayesian structural 
equation modeling (BSEM), among a sample of 249 French-speaking Swiss children 
(8-12 years). With BSEM, zero-fixed cross-loadings between latent variables and 
measures are replaced by approximate zeros, based on informative, small-variance 
priors. Results indicated that a direct hierarchical CHC-based model with 5 
factors plus a general intelligence factor better represented the structure of 
the WISC-IV than did the 4-factor structure and the higher order models. Because 
a direct hierarchical CHC model was more adequate, it was concluded that the 
general factor should be considered as a breadth rather than a superordinate 
factor. Because it was possible for us to estimate the influence of each of the 
latent variables on the 15 subtest scores, BSEM allowed improvement of the 
understanding of the structure of intelligence tests and the clinical 
interpretation of the subtest scores.

PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2013 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/a0030676
PMID: 23148651 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


164. Dev Psychol. 2013 Aug;49(8):1529-43. doi: 10.1037/a0030623. Epub 2012 Nov 12.

Stability and change in intelligence from age 12 to age 52: results from the 
Luxembourg MAGRIP study.

Schalke D(1), Brunner M, Geiser C, Preckel F, Keller U, Spengler M, Martin R.

Author information:
(1)University of Luxembourg, Center for Educational Measurement and Applied 
Cognitive Science (EMACS), Campus Walferdange, L-7220 Walferdange, Luxembourg. 
daniela.schalke@uni.lu

The present longitudinal study tackled 2 key aspects of the development of 
intelligence across a 40-year time period from age 12 to age 52 concerning (a) 
stability and change in the structure of intelligence with reference to the age 
differentiation-dedifferentiation hypothesis (how different cognitive abilities 
relate to each other across age) and (b) differential stabilities (the rank 
ordering of persons' intelligence levels across time). To this end, we drew on 2 
structural conceptions of intelligence: (a) the extended Gf-Gc model to study 
broad cognitive abilities and (b) the 3-stratum model to decompose cognitive 
change into processes that are shared by all broad abilities (attributable to 
general cognitive ability g) and processes specific to a certain ability 
(independent of g). Data were obtained for 344 persons (56.4% female). The 
results showed that people differ more greatly over time with respect to all 
broad abilities except for fluid reasoning, whereas the rank ordering of persons 
on all broad abilities remains remarkably stable. These combined results yielded 
substantial gap-widening effects from age 12 to age 52 years that were mainly 
accounted for by a substantial increase in g variance in combination with a high 
differential stability of g. Moreover, the increase in g variance reflects an 
increase in covariance among different broad abilities, which indicates that the 
different constructs relate more closely to each other at age 52 compared to age 
12 (i.e., age dedifferentiation). Two theoretical explanations of this change in 
the structure of intelligence are discussed (common cause hypothesis and 
investment theory).

(PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2013 APA, all rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/a0030623
PMID: 23148935 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


165. Int J Legal Med. 2013 May;127(3):559-72. doi: 10.1007/s00414-012-0788-1. Epub 
2012 Nov 13.

First all-in-one diagnostic tool for DNA intelligence: genome-wide inference of 
biogeographic ancestry, appearance, relatedness, and sex with the Identitas v1 
Forensic Chip.

Keating B(1), Bansal AT, Walsh S, Millman J, Newman J, Kidd K, Budowle B, 
Eisenberg A, Donfack J, Gasparini P, Budimlija Z, Henders AK, Chandrupatla H, 
Duffy DL, Gordon SD, Hysi P, Liu F, Medland SE, Rubin L, Martin NG, Spector TD, 
Kayser M; International Visible Trait Genetics (VisiGen) Consortium.

Author information:
(1)The University of Pennsylvania, Office 1016, Abramson Building, 3615 Civic 
Center Bvld., Philadelphia, PA 19104-4399, USA. bkeating@mail.med.upenn.edu

When a forensic DNA sample cannot be associated directly with a previously 
genotyped reference sample by standard short tandem repeat profiling, the 
investigation required for identifying perpetrators, victims, or missing persons 
can be both costly and time consuming. Here, we describe the outcome of a 
collaborative study using the Identitas Version 1 (v1) Forensic Chip, the first 
commercially available all-in-one tool dedicated to the concept of developing 
intelligence leads based on DNA. The chip allows parallel interrogation of 
201,173 genome-wide autosomal, X-chromosomal, Y-chromosomal, and mitochondrial 
single nucleotide polymorphisms for inference of biogeographic ancestry, 
appearance, relatedness, and sex. The first assessment of the chip's performance 
was carried out on 3,196 blinded DNA samples of varying quantities and 
qualities, covering a wide range of biogeographic origin and eye/hair coloration 
as well as variation in relatedness and sex. Overall, 95 % of the samples (N = 
3,034) passed quality checks with an overall genotype call rate >90 % on 
variable numbers of available recorded trait information. Predictions of sex, 
direct match, and first to third degree relatedness were highly accurate. 
Chip-based predictions of biparental continental ancestry were on average ~94 % 
correct (further support provided by separately inferred patrilineal and 
matrilineal ancestry). Predictions of eye color were 85 % correct for brown and 
70 % correct for blue eyes, and predictions of hair color were 72 % for brown, 
63 % for blond, 58 % for black, and 48 % for red hair. From the 5 % of samples 
(N = 162) with <90 % call rate, 56 % yielded correct continental ancestry 
predictions while 7 % yielded sufficient genotypes to allow hair and eye color 
prediction. Our results demonstrate that the Identitas v1 Forensic Chip holds 
great promise for a wide range of applications including criminal 
investigations, missing person investigations, and for national security 
purposes.

DOI: 10.1007/s00414-012-0788-1
PMCID: PMC3631519
PMID: 23149900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


166. Diabetes Care. 2013 Mar;36(3):505-12. doi: 10.2337/dc12-0700. Epub 2012 Nov 12.

Transient neonatal diabetes, ZFP57, and hypomethylation of multiple imprinted 
loci: a detailed follow-up.

Boonen SE(1), Mackay DJ, Hahnemann JM, Docherty L, Grønskov K, Lehmann A, Larsen 
LG, Haemers AP, Kockaerts Y, Dooms L, Vu DC, Ngoc CT, Nguyen PB, Kordonouri O, 
Sundberg F, Dayanikli P, Puthi V, Acerini C, Massoud AF, Tümer Z, Temple IK.

Author information:
(1)Center for Applied Human Molecular Genetics, The Kennedy Center, Glostrup, 
Denmark. susaboon@rm.dk

OBJECTIVE: Transient neonatal diabetes mellitus 1 (TNDM1) is the most common 
cause of diabetes presenting at birth. Approximately 5% of the cases are due to 
recessive ZFP57 mutations, causing hypomethylation at the TNDM locus and other 
imprinted loci (HIL). This has consequences for patient care because it has 
impact on the phenotype and recurrence risk for families. We have determined the 
genotype, phenotype, and epigenotype of the first 10 families to alert health 
professionals to this newly described genetic subgroup of diabetes.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: The 10 families (14 homozygous/compound 
heterozygous individuals) with ZFP57 mutations were ascertained through TNDM1 
diagnostic testing. ZFP57 was sequenced in probands and their relatives, and the 
methylation levels at multiple maternally and paternally imprinted loci were 
determined. Medical and family histories were obtained, and clinical examination 
was performed.
RESULTS: The key clinical features in probands were transient neonatal diabetes, 
intrauterine growth retardation, macroglossia, heart defects, and developmental 
delay. However, the finding of two homozygous relatives without diabetes and 
normal intelligence showed that the phenotype could be very variable. The 
epigenotype always included total loss of methylation at the TNDM1 locus and 
reproducible combinations of differential hypomethylation at other maternally 
imprinted loci, including tissue mosaicism.
CONCLUSIONS: There is yet no clear genotype-epigenotype-phenotype correlation to 
explain the variable clinical presentation, and this results in difficulties 
predicting the prognosis of affected individuals. However, many cases have a 
more severe phenotype than seen in other causes of TNDM1. Further cases and 
global epigenetic testing are needed to clarify this.

DOI: 10.2337/dc12-0700
PMCID: PMC3579357
PMID: 23150280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167. Dev Med Child Neurol. 2013 May;55(5):408-17. doi: 10.1111/dmcn.12020. Epub 2012 
Nov 15.

Neurocognitive consequences of a paediatric brain tumour and its treatment: a 
meta-analysis.

de Ruiter MA(1), van Mourik R, Schouten-van Meeteren AY, Grootenhuis MA, 
Oosterlaan J.

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Psychosocial Department, Emma Children's Hospital Academic Medical 
Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. m.a.deruiter@amc.nl

AIM: This meta-analysis provides a systematic review of studies into 
intellectual and attentional functioning of paediatric brain tumour survivors 
(PBTS) as assessed by two widely used measures: the Wechsler Intelligence Scale 
for Children (3rd edition; WISC-III) and the Conners' Continuous Performance 
Test (CPT).
METHOD: Studies were located that reported on performance of PBTS (age range 
6-16y). Meta-analytic effect sizes were calculated for Full-scale IQ, 
Performance IQ, and Verbal IQ as measured by the WISC-III, and mean hit reaction 
time, errors of omission, and errors of commission as measured by the CPT. 
Exploratory analyses investigated the possible impacts of treatment mode, tumour 
location, age at diagnosis, and time since diagnosis on intelligence.
RESULTS: Twenty-nine studies were included: 22 reported on the WISC-III in 710 
PBTS and seven on CPT results in 372 PBTS. PBTS performed below average (p(s) 
<0.001) on Full-scale IQ (Cohen's d=-0.79), Performance IQ (d=-0.90), and Verbal 
IQ (d=-0.54). PBTS committed more errors of omission than the norm (d=0.82, 
p<0.001); no differences were found for mean hit reaction time and errors of 
commission. Cranial radiotherapy, chemotherapy, and longer time since diagnosis 
were associated with lower WISC-III scores (p(s) <0.05).
INTERPRETATION: PBTS have seriously impaired intellectual functioning and 
attentiveness. Being treated with cranial radiotherapy and/or chemotherapy as 
well as longer time since diagnosis leads to worse intellectual functioning.

© The Authors. Developmental Medicine & Child Neurology © 2012 Mac Keith Press.

DOI: 10.1111/dmcn.12020
PMID: 23157447 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


168. Neurol Sci. 2013 Aug;34(8):1367-74. doi: 10.1007/s10072-012-1243-2. Epub 2012 
Nov 18.

Trail Making Test error analysis in classic motor neuron disease.

Christidi F(1), Kararizou E, Triantafyllou NI, Paraskevas GP, Zalonis I.

Author information:
(1)Neuropsychological Lab, A' Department of Neurology, Eginition Hospital, 
Medical School, National and Kapodistrian University, 72-74 Vas. Sofias Avenue, 
115 28, Athens, Greece. christidi.f.a@gmail.com

The use of non-traditional scores in neuropsychological assessment allows for 
pattern analysis of test performance, commonly referred to as Quantified Process 
Approach (QPA). In the present study, the QPA was taken to study error rates on 
the Trail Making Test (TMT) in 26 non-demented patients with classic motor 
neuron disease (cMND), who commonly present with impaired cognitive flexibility, 
and 26 matched healthy controls. Between-group comparisons revealed that cMND 
patients exhibited higher total error rates on the TMT Part B (TMT-B) relative 
to controls (p < 0.001), though no significant associations were noted between 
TMT errors and measures of attention and executive function obtained using the 
Stroop Neuropsychological Screening Test, the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale 
Digit Symbol and Digit Span subtests and the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test. 
Moreover, the percentage of cMND patients with normal TMT-B time-to-completion 
who committed at least one error (either sequential or perseverative errors) in 
TMT-B was significantly higher compared to controls (p = 0.005). These findings 
suggest that error analysis using the QPA may increase the clinical utility of 
TMT and should be considered in addition to time-to-completion scores, in the 
neuropsychological assessment of patients with cMND.

DOI: 10.1007/s10072-012-1243-2
PMID: 23161259 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


169. Early Interv Psychiatry. 2013 Nov;7(4):381-90. doi: 10.1111/eip.12004. Epub 2012 
Nov 19.

Can cognitive deficits facilitate differential diagnosis between at-risk mental 
state for psychosis and depressive disorders?

Schulze C(1), Zimmermann R, Gschwandtner U, Pflueger MO, Rapp C, Studerus E, 
Riecher-Rössler A.

Author information:
(1)University Psychiatric Outpatient Department, University of Basel Psychiatric 
Clinics, Basel, Switzerland.

AIM: Many studies have provided evidence of cognitive deficits in individuals in 
an 'At Risk Mental State' (ARMS) for psychosis, which makes neuropsychology 
potentially useful in the early detection of psychosis. As depression is an 
important differential diagnosis in prodromal states of psychosis, the 
specificity of neurocognitive deficits in ARMS individuals as compared with 
non-psychotic depressive disorders is investigated.
METHODS: Neurocognitive performance of four groups was analysed: 22 ARMS 
individuals with later transition to psychosis (ARMS-T), 25 ARMS individuals 
without later transition to psychosis (ARMS-NT), 34 controls with depressive 
disorders and 76 healthy controls. The subjects were assessed with a 
neurocognitive test battery covering the domains' intelligence, executive 
function and attention/ working memory. MANOVAs, ANOVAs and Tukey's tests were 
applied after adjustment for confounding factors.
RESULTS: ARMS-T showed significant cognitive deficits in working memory and in 
certain executive function tasks compared with healthy controls as well as with 
controls with depression. Controls with depression were only impaired in time 
per move in the tower of Hanoi test when compared with healthy controls.
CONCLUSIONS: The psychosis prodrome seems to be associated with cognitive 
deficits in the domains of working memory and executive function. In contrast, 
depressive patients showed no cognitive deficits, but slowing in one executive 
function task. Neurocognitive testing might therefore contribute to the 
differential diagnosis between prodromal psychosis and depressive disorders.

© 2012 Wiley Publishing Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/eip.12004
PMID: 23164358 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


170. Depress Anxiety. 2013 Jan;30(1):77-84. doi: 10.1002/da.22022. Epub 2012 Nov 16.

Depressive symptoms in late life and cerebrovascular disease: the importance of 
intelligence and lesion location.

Murray AD(1), Staff RT, McNeil CJ, Salarirad S, Phillips LH, Starr J, Deary IJ, 
Whalley LJ.

Author information:
(1)Aberdeen Biomedical Imaging Centre, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, 
Scotland, UK. a.d.murray@abdn.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: The influence of white matter lesions on depressive symptoms in 
healthy ageing populations remains unclear. In this study, we examined the 
relationship between depressive symptoms and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) 
detected cerebrovascular disease in a normal population living independently in 
the community, and measured the influence of location of brain abnormalities, 
fluid intelligence, living alone, and sex.
METHODS: Prospective cohort: 497 community dwelling individuals all born in 
1936, who took part in the Scottish Mental Survey of 1947, were followed up in 
2000 and at biannual intervals in a longitudinal study of health and cognitive 
aging. Two hundred forty-four volunteered for brain MRI in 2004-2006. Suitable 
data were available in 219/244, of whom 115 were men. Brain hyperintensities in 
lobar white matter, basal ganglia , periventricular, and infratentorial regions 
were measured using Scheltens' scale. Depressed mood was assessed using the 
Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) on three biannual intervals. 
Relationships between Scheltens' scores, HADS-D scores, fluid intelligence, 
living alone, and sex were assessed using general linear modeling.
RESULTS: The main predictor of depressive symptom scores was poorer fluid 
intelligence (partial η(2) =0.023-0.028, P < .05). Ischemic change in the 
brainstem (partial η(2) = 0.026, P ≤.05) and basal ganglia (partial η(2) =0.018, 
P ≤ .05) also predicted HADS-D scores. There was no relationship with sex or 
living alone.
CONCLUSIONS: Hyperintensities in the brainstem and basal ganglia are associated 
with depressive symptoms. Higher fluid intelligence is associated with lower 
depressive symptoms in this normal, ageing population.

© 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/da.22022
PMID: 23165823 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


171. Cogn Neuropsychiatry. 2013;18(6):574-93. doi: 10.1080/13546805.2012.731390. Epub 
2012 Nov 20.

To cut a short test even shorter: reliability and validity of a brief assessment 
of intellectual ability in schizophrenia--a control-case family study.

Velthorst E(1), Levine SZ, Henquet C, de Haan L, van Os J, Myin-Germeys I, 
Reichenberg A.

Author information:
(1)a Department of Early Psychosis , Academic Medical Center , Amsterdam , The 
Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: The potential inclusion of cognitive assessments in the DSM-V and 
large time-consuming assessments drive a need for short tests of cognitive 
impairments. We examined the reliability and validity of a brief, 15-minute, 
version of the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-III (WAIS-III).
METHODS: The sample consisted of patients diagnosed with schizophrenia (n=75), 
their siblings without schizophrenia (n=74) and unrelated healthy controls 
(n=84). A short WAIS-III consists of the Digit Symbol Coding subtest, and every 
second (or third) item of Block Design, Information, and Arithmetic. 
Psychometric analyses were implemented using item-response theory (IRT) to 
determine the best minimal item short version, while maintaining the sensitivity 
and reliability of the IQ score.
RESULTS: The proposed 15-minute WAIS-III gave reliable estimates of the Full 
Scale IQ (FSIQ) in all three groups in the sample. The 15-minute (select-item) 
version yielded an overall R of.95 (R(2)=.92) and IRT yielded an R of .96 
(R(2)=.92). All four subtests performed well in differentiating patients, 
relatives, and healthy controls. Multivariate analysis showed a significant 
difference in FSIQ-estimate between patients, relatives, and healthy controls, 
F(2, 202) = 19.00, p < .0001. Regression modelling showed that the three 
versions of the WAIS had similar associations with functional outcome after a 
3-year follow-up.
CONCLUSIONS: Our proposed 15-minute version of the WAIS may serve as a useful 
screening device for general intellectual ability in research or clinical 
settings, and is recommended when a quick and accurate IQ estimate is desired.

DOI: 10.1080/13546805.2012.731390
PMID: 23167265 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


172. J Pers Assess. 2013;95(2):174-86. doi: 10.1080/00223891.2012.740538. Epub 2012 
Nov 21.

Measuring psychological development with the Rorschach.

Stanfill ML(1), Viglione DJ, Resende AC.

Author information:
(1)King County Department of Public Health, Seattle, WA 98104, USA. 
mlstanfill@gmail.com

Erratum in
    J Pers Assess. 2013;95(4):435.

The aim of this study was to develop and to provide an initial validation of a 
Rorschach index measuring developmental progress and growth. The Developmental 
Index (DI) was created in a 3-step, sequential strategy with adult and child 
data in which we (a) selected potential DI variables from quantitative research 
literature and from data available to us, (b) identified an optimal group of DI 
variables and created the DI equation using an independent nonpatient sample, 
and (c) provided an initial cross-validation of the DI using an independent 
clinical sample. Age and age rank categorization groups from normative data 
associated with the Wechsler intelligence scales (Wechsler, 2003, 2008) and 
contrasts between adults and children served as criteria for development. These 
samples include a large amount of data from a diverse international subject pool 
using the Comprehensive System of the Rorschach. Interim validity checks were 
undertaken to ensure the analytic strategy was sound. The DI includes 12 
variables with individual weights determined by regression analysis. The initial 
independent cross-validation of the DI with a clinical sample revealed that it 
discriminated well between children and adults. Thus, initial support for this 
scale as a measure of psychological development across cultures and geography 
was established, but future research is needed. Clinical implications and 
specific research needs are presented.

DOI: 10.1080/00223891.2012.740538
PMID: 23171197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


173. J Sleep Res. 2013 Jun;22(3):251-7. doi: 10.1111/jsr.12010. Epub 2012 Nov 21.

Working memory performance of older adults with insomnia.

Lovato N(1), Lack L, Wright H, Cant M, Humphreys J.

Author information:
(1)School of Psychology, Flinders University, Adelaide, SA, Australia. 
nicole.lovato@flinders.edu.au

Older individuals suffering insomnia typically report declines in their 
cognitive performance beyond what they consider to be normal changes due to the 
aging process. Recent neuro-imaging studies have demonstrated frontal lobe 
hypo-activation among insomniac populations when compared with healthy, good 
sleepers. However, research is yet to confirm whether frontal lobe 
hypo-activation translates into objective declines when performing tasks 
hypothesized to draw upon this brain region. This study aimed to investigate 
whether older insomnia sufferers demonstrate significantly impaired performance 
on a challenging working memory task when compared with age-matched good 
sleepers. Forty-nine older individuals (mean age = 69.43 years, SD = 4.83) 
suffering from sleep maintenance insomnia were compared with 49 age-matched good 
sleepers. Cognitive performance was assessed using the Double Span Memory Task, 
a computer-based working memory task that requires participants to indicate the 
names and/or spatial locations of increasingly longer sequences of visually 
presented objects. After controlling for general intelligence, the individuals 
suffering from insomnia did not perform differently when compared with the good 
sleepers on either the simpler or more cognitively demanding components of the 
task. Older individuals with insomnia did not display an observable impairment 
of working memory in this study relative to good sleepers. Despite the mixed 
results from previous research, this study adds weight to the absence of 
objective impairment in insomniacs, at least while performing short-term 
demanding cognitive tasks.

© 2012 European Sleep Research Society.

DOI: 10.1111/jsr.12010
PMID: 23171327 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


174. Int J Epidemiol. 2013 Feb;42(1):150-9. doi: 10.1093/ije/dys172. Epub 2012 Nov 
21.

Breastfeeding and brain structure in adolescence.

Kafouri S(1), Kramer M, Leonard G, Perron M, Pike B, Richer L, Toro R, Veillette 
S, Pausova Z, Paus T.

Author information:
(1)Rotman Research Institute, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada.

BACKGROUND: The purpose of this investigation was to evaluate an association 
between duration of exclusive breastfeeding and structure of cortical regions 
implicated in general intelligence.
METHODS: We studied adolescents (n = 571; aged 12-18 years) participating in the 
Saguenay Youth Study; half of the participants were exposed to maternal 
cigarette smoking during pregnancy. Hierarchical linear modelling was used to 
assess whether breastfeeding is an important predictor of cortical thickness 
when other predictors, such as age, sex, parental education and exposure to 
maternal smoking during pregnancy, are also considered. Target cortical regions 
were identified using a meta-analysis of functional neuroimaging studies of 
cognitive abilities relevant for general intelligence.
RESULTS: We found that duration of exclusive breastfeeding was associated with 
cortical thickness in the superior and inferior parietal lobules (t = 2.31, P = 
0.02). We also replicated the association between breastfeeding and general 
intelligence (t = 2.69, P = 0.008).
CONCLUSION: In this study, we showed that breastfeeding is associated with 
variations in the thickness of the parietal cortex in a community-based sample 
of adolescents. We also found association of breastfeeding duration with full 
scale and performance IQ, as observed previously.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dys172
PMID: 23175518 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


175. Nucleic Acids Res. 2013 Jan;41(Database issue):D561-5. doi: 10.1093/nar/gks1114. 
Epub 2012 Nov 21.

BioGPS and MyGene.info: organizing online, gene-centric information.

Wu C(1), Macleod I, Su AI.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular and Experimental Medicine, The Scripps Research 
Institute, La Jolla, CA 92037, USA. cwu@scripps.edu

Fast-evolving technologies have enabled researchers to easily generate data at 
genome scale, and using these technologies to compare biological states 
typically results in a list of candidate genes. Researchers are then faced with 
the daunting task of prioritizing these candidate genes for follow-up studies. 
There are hundreds, possibly even thousands, of web-based gene annotation 
resources available, but it quickly becomes impractical to manually access and 
review all of these sites for each gene in a candidate gene list. BioGPS 
(http://biogps.org) was created as a centralized gene portal for aggregating 
distributed gene annotation resources, emphasizing community extensibility and 
user customizability. BioGPS serves as a convenient tool for users to access 
known gene-centric resources, as well as a mechanism to discover new resources 
that were previously unknown to the user. This article describes updates to 
BioGPS made after its initial release in 2008. We summarize recent additions of 
features and data, as well as the robust user activity that underlies this 
community intelligence application. Finally, we describe MyGene.info 
(http://mygene.info) and related web services that provide programmatic access 
to BioGPS.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gks1114
PMCID: PMC3531157
PMID: 23175613 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


176. Matern Child Nutr. 2013 Jan;9 Suppl 1(Suppl 1):89-104. doi: 10.1111/mcn.12020.

The relation between age of attainment of motor milestones and future cognitive 
and motor development in Bangladeshi children.

Hamadani JD(1), Tofail F, Cole T, Grantham-McGregor S.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Child and Adolescent Health, International Centre for Diarrhoeal 
Disease Research, Bangladesh, Dhaka, 1212, Bangladesh. jena@icddrb.org

There is a need for easily administered, low-cost measures to assess child 
development in large field studies. Many researchers evaluate the age of 
attainment of motor milestones, but there is little information on their 
validity. A large longitudinal study (MINIMat) was conducted in a poor rural 
area of Bangladesh and we assessed the age of attainment of motor milestones in 
a subsample of over 2000 children. We examined their association with scores on 
the Bayley psychomotor development index (PDI) and mental development index 
(MDI) at 18 months and with scores on the Movement Assessment Battery for 
Children and with intelligence quotient (IQ) on the Wechsler Preschool and 
Primary Scale of Intelligence at 64 months. A field worker visited the 
children's homes monthly from 3 to 12 months of age and then at 15 months and 
examined the children. Mothers recorded the date of attainment of the 
milestones. Age of attainment of walking and standing alone was moderately 
correlated with the PDI and had significant but low associations with later 
motor development. They were as good as the PDI in predicting later motor 
development and could be used in field studies for that purpose. Milestone age 
of attainment had significant but low correlations with MDI and later IQ. Height 
for age at 15 months was related to milestones and later IQ and motor 
development and accounted for some of the association between milestones and IQ. 
Milestone age of attainment may not be sensitive enough to be used as an 
indicator of later IQ.

© 2012 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/mcn.12020
PMCID: PMC6860901
PMID: 23167587 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The author does not have any conflict of 
interest.


177. Reprod Biomed Online. 2013 Jan;26(1):42-9. doi: 10.1016/j.rbmo.2012.09.015. Epub 
2012 Oct 2.

Artificial intelligence techniques for embryo and oocyte classification.

Manna C(1), Nanni L, Lumini A, Pappalardo S.

Author information:
(1)Centro Studi GENESIS (Junior Srl), Via Velletri 7, 00198 Rome, Italy.

One of the most relevant aspects in assisted reproduction technology is the 
possibility of characterizing and identifying the most viable oocytes or 
embryos. In most cases, embryologists select them by visual examination and 
their evaluation is totally subjective. Recently, due to the rapid growth in the 
capacity to extract texture descriptors from a given image, a growing interest 
has been shown in the use of artificial intelligence methods for embryo or 
oocyte scoring/selection in IVF programmes. This work concentrates the efforts 
on the possible prediction of the quality of embryos and oocytes in order to 
improve the performance of assisted reproduction technology, starting from their 
images. The artificial intelligence system proposed in this work is based on a 
set of Levenberg-Marquardt neural networks trained using textural descriptors 
(the local binary patterns). The proposed system was tested on two data sets of 
269 oocytes and 269 corresponding embryos from 104 women and compared with other 
machine learning methods already proposed in the past for similar classification 
problems. Although the results are only preliminary, they show an interesting 
classification performance. This technique may be of particular interest in 
those countries where legislation restricts embryo selection. One of the most 
relevant aspects in assisted reproduction technology is the possibility of 
characterizing and identifying the most viable oocytes or embryos. In most 
cases, embryologists select them by visual examination and their evaluation is 
totally subjective. Recently, due to the rapid growth in our capacity to extract 
texture descriptors from a given image, a growing interest has been shown in the 
use of artificial intelligence methods for embryo or oocyte scoring/selection in 
IVF programmes. In this work, we concentrate our efforts on the possible 
prediction of the quality of embryos and oocytes in order to improve the 
performance of assisted reproduction technology, starting from their images. The 
artificial intelligence system proposed in this work is based on a set of 
Levenberg-Marquardt neural networks trained using textural descriptors (the 
'local binary patterns'). The proposed system is tested on two data sets, of 269 
oocytes and 269 corresponding embryos from 104 women, and compared with other 
machine learning methods already proposed in the past for similar classification 
problems. Although the results are only preliminary, they showed an interesting 
classification performance. This technique may be of particular interest in 
those countries where legislation restricts embryo selection.

Copyright © 2012 Reproductive Healthcare Ltd. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rbmo.2012.09.015
PMID: 23177416 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


178. J Clin Epidemiol. 2013 Jan;66(1):30-5. doi: 10.1016/j.jclinepi.2012.03.012.

Development and psychometric validation of the Brief Intellectual Disability 
Scale for use in low-health resource, high-burden countries.

Mammen P(1), Russell PS, Nair MK, Russell S, Kishore C, Shankar S.

Author information:
(1)Facility for Children with Intellectual Disability, Child and Adolescent 
Psychiatry Unit, Department of Psychiatry, Christian Medical College, Vellore 
632 002, India. marym@cmcvellore.ac.in

OBJECTIVE: To develop and validate a concise, parent-completed Brief 
Intellectual Disability Scale (BIDS) for children in low-disability resource and 
high-disability care burden countries.
STUDY DESIGN AND SETTING: In this prospective cross-sectional study of 124 
children recruited from a facility for intellectual disability (ID), the newly 
developed BIDS as the measure for validation as well as for the gold standard 
and convergent and divergent validities was administered by independent raters. 
Tests for diagnostic accuracy, reproducibility, and validity were conducted at 
the item and scale levels.
RESULTS: The BIDS scores of ≥5 (sensitivity [Sn] = 71.43%, specificity [Sp] = 
80.95%) and ≥11 (Sn = 4.29%, Sp = 100%), with area under the curve of 0.79, are 
suggested, respectively, for screening and diagnostic use in Indian populations. 
The inter-rater reliability (intra-class correlation coefficient [ICC] = 0.96) 
and test-retest reliability at 4 weeks (ICC = 0.95) for BIDS are strong. Besides 
the adequate face and content validities, BIDS demonstrates good internal 
consistency (Cronbach α = 0.80) and item-total correlation. There is moderate 
convergent validity with Binet-Kamat Test of Intelligence or Gesell's 
Developmental Schedule (r = -0.66, P = 0.001) as well as with adaptive behavior 
measure of Vineland Social Maturity Scale (r =-0.52, P = 0.001) and low 
divergent validity with the subscales of Attention Deficit Disorder with 
Hyperactivity: Comprehensive Teacher Rating Scale ( r = -0.11, P = 0.7; r = 
0.18, P = 0.5; r = 0.13, P = 0.6; r = 0.08, P = 0.7). An exploratory factor 
analysis demonstrated a three-factor structure, explaining 60% of variance.
CONCLUSION: The BIDS shows promise as a psychometrically adequate, yet brief 
measure for identifying ID in countries with low disability care resources and 
high disability-related burden.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jclinepi.2012.03.012
PMID: 23177892 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


179. Sci Eng Ethics. 2013 Sep;19(3):1057-70. doi: 10.1007/s11948-012-9415-2. Epub 
2012 Nov 21.

Karl Pearson and eugenics: personal opinions and scientific rigor.

Delzell DA(1), Poliak CD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Mathematics and Computer Science, Wheaton College, Wheaton, IL 
60187, USA. darcie.delzell@wheaton.edu

The influence of personal opinions and biases on scientific conclusions is a 
threat to the advancement of knowledge. Expertise and experience does not render 
one immune to this temptation. In this work, one of the founding fathers of 
statistics, Karl Pearson, is used as an illustration of how even the most 
talented among us can produce misleading results when inferences are made 
without caution or reference to potential bias and other analysis limitations. A 
study performed by Pearson on British Jewish schoolchildren is examined in light 
of ethical and professional statistical practice. The methodology used and 
inferences made by Pearson and his coauthor are sometimes questionable and offer 
insight into how Pearson's support of eugenics and his own British nationalism 
could have potentially influenced his often careless and far-fetched inferences. 
A short background into Pearson's work and beliefs is provided, along with an 
in-depth examination of the authors' overall experimental design and statistical 
practices. In addition, portions of the study regarding intelligence and 
tuberculosis are discussed in more detail, along with historical reactions to 
their work.

DOI: 10.1007/s11948-012-9415-2
PMID: 23179067 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


180. J Exp Child Psychol. 2013 Oct;116(2):545-59. doi: 10.1016/j.jecp.2012.10.008. 
Epub 2012 Nov 22.

Competition as rational action: why young children cannot appreciate competitive 
games.

Priewasser B(1), Roessler J, Perner J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Salzburg, A-5020 Salzburg, Austria. 
beate.priewasser@sbg.ac.at

Understanding rational actions requires perspective taking both with respect to 
means and with respect to objectives. This study addresses the question of 
whether the two kinds of perspective taking develop simultaneously or in 
sequence. It is argued that evidence from competitive behavior is best suited 
for settling this issue. A total of 71 kindergarten children between 3 and 5 
years of age participated in a competitive game of dice and were tested on two 
traditional false belief stories as well as on several control tasks (verbal 
intelligence, inhibitory control, and working memory). The frequency of 
competitive poaching moves in the game correlated with correct predictions of 
mistaken actions in the false belief task. Hierarchical linear regression after 
controlling for age and control variables showed that false belief understanding 
significantly predicted the amount of poaching moves. The results speak for an 
interrelated development of the capacity for "instrumental" and "telic" 
perspective taking. They are discussed in the light of teleology as opposed to 
theory use and simulation.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jecp.2012.10.008
PMCID: PMC3778405
PMID: 23182381 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


181. Forensic Sci Int. 2013 Jan 10;224(1-3):8-26. doi: 
10.1016/j.forsciint.2012.10.040. Epub 2012 Nov 24.

A review of impurity profiling and synthetic route of manufacture of 
methylamphetamine, 3,4-methylenedioxymethylamphetamine, amphetamine, 
dimethylamphetamine and p-methoxyamphetamine.

Stojanovska N(1), Fu S, Tahtouh M, Kelly T, Beavis A, Kirkbride KP.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Forensic Science, University of Technology, Sydney, PO Box 123, 
Broadway, NSW 2007, Australia. natasha.stojanovska@student.uts.edu.au

Amphetamine-type substances (ATS), like other synthetically derived compounds, 
can be produced by a multitude of synthetic pathways using a variety of 
precursors and reagents, resulting in a large number of possible contaminants 
(by-products, intermediates and impurities). This review article describes the 
common contaminants found in preparations of methylamphetamine (MA), 
3,4-methylenedioxymethylamphetamine (MDMA), amphetamine (AP), 
N,N-dimethylamphetamine (DMA) and p-methoxyamphetamine (PMA) synthesised via 
common synthetic pathways including reductive amination, Leuckart method, Nagai 
method, Emde method, Birch reduction, "Moscow" method, Wacker process, 
"Nitrostyrene" method and the Peracid oxidation method. Contaminants can 
facilitate identification of the synthetic route, origin of precursors and may 
suggest information as to the location of manufacture of these illicit drugs. 
Contaminant profiling can provide vital intelligence for investigations in which 
linking seizures or identifying the synthetic pathway is essential. This review 
article presents an accessible resource; a compilation of contaminants resulting 
from a variety of manufacturing methods used to synthesise the most common ATS. 
It is important for research in this field to continue as valuable information 
can be extracted from illicit drug samples, increasing discrimination amongst 
ATS, and in turn, leading to an increase in evidential value and forensic drug 
intelligence from forensic drug samples.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.forsciint.2012.10.040
PMID: 23182870


182. Biol Psychol. 2013 Feb;92(2):106-13. doi: 10.1016/j.biopsycho.2012.11.009. Epub 
2012 Nov 24.

Cardiac vagal reactivity during relived sadness is predicted by affect intensity 
and emotional intelligence.

Rash JA(1), Prkachin KM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Calgary, 2500 University Drive, 
Calgary, AB T2N 1N4, Canada. jarash@ucalgary.ca

BACKGROUND: The induction of one particular emotion - sadness - has shown two 
different profiles of autonomic nervous system (ANS) response that are 
characterized by activation, or withdrawal in cardiac parasympathetic 
activation. We tested whether individual differences in emotion expression 
predict cardiac vagal reactivity from baseline to autobiographical sadness 
induction.
METHODS: Respiration sinus arrhythmia (RSA(c)) was measured in 56 adults (28 
men) asked to relive an episode of sadness. Participants completed an emotional 
intelligence (EI) test, and a measure of trait affect intensity.
RESULTS: Sadness resulted in cardiac vagal activation with concomitant increase 
in HR suggestive of parasympathetic and sympathetic co-activation. Individual 
differences were observed in autonomic reactivity during sadness. Higher scores 
on the affect intensity measure and the emotional intelligence test predicted 
greater change in RSA(c) during sadness and recovery.
CONCLUSION: The tendency to experience affect intensely and the ability to 
perceive emotions predict adaptive physiological regulation during sadness.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopsycho.2012.11.009
PMID: 23182876 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


183. Eur Neuropsychopharmacol. 2013 Sep;23(9):1067-71. doi: 
10.1016/j.euroneuro.2012.10.016. Epub 2012 Nov 22.

Nanopsychiatry--the potential role of nanotechnologies in the future of 
psychiatry: a systematic review.

Fond G(1), Macgregor A, Miot S.

Author information:
(1)Université Montpellier 1, Montpellier F-34000, France; Institut National de 
Santé et de Recherche Médicale INSERM, U1061, Montpellier F-34093, France; 
Service Universitaire de Psychiatrie Adulte, Hôpital La Colombière/CHRU de 
Montpellier, F-34000, France. Electronic address: guillaume.fond@gmail.com.

Nanomedicine is defined as the area using nanotechnology's concepts for the 
benefit of human beings' health and well being. In this article, we aimed to 
provide an overview of areas where nanotechnology is applied and how they could 
be extended to care for psychiatric illnesses. The main applications of 
nanotechnology in psychiatry are (i) pharmacology. There are two main 
difficulties in neuropharmacology: drugs have to pass the blood-brain barrier 
and then to be internalized by targeted cells. Nanoparticles could increase 
drugs bioavailability and pharmacokinetics, especially improving safety and 
efficacy of psychotropic drugs. Liposomes, nanosomes, nanoparticle polymers, 
nanobubbles are some examples of this targeted drug delivery. Nanotechnologies 
could also add new pharmacological properties, like nanoshells and dendrimers 
(ii) living analysis. Nanotechnology provides technical assistance to in vivo 
imaging or metabolome analysis (iii) central nervous system modeling. Research 
teams have succeeded to modelize inorganic synapses and mimick synaptic 
behavior, a step essential for further creation of artificial neural systems. 
Some nanoparticle assemblies present the same small worlds and free-scale 
networks architecture as cortical neural networks. Nanotechnologies and quantum 
physics could be used to create models of artificial intelligence and mental 
illnesses. We are not about to see a concrete application of nanomedicine in 
daily psychiatric practice. Even if nanotechnologies are promising, their safety 
is still inconsistent and this must be kept in mind. However, it seems essential 
that psychiatrists do not forsake this area of research the perspectives of 
which could be decisive in the field of mental illness.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. and ECNP. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.euroneuro.2012.10.016
PMID: 23183130 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


184. Psychon Bull Rev. 2013 Feb;20(1):135-41. doi: 10.3758/s13423-012-0335-6.

Dual n-back training increases the capacity of the focus of attention.

Lilienthal L(1), Tamez E, Shelton JT, Myerson J, Hale S.

Author information:
(1)Psychology Department, Washington University in St. Louis, 1 Brookings Drive, 
St. Louis, MO 63130, USA. lindsey.lilienthal@yahoo.com

Working memory (WM) training has been reported to benefit abilities as diverse 
as fluid intelligence (Jaeggi et al., Proceedings of the National Academy of 
Sciences of the United States of America, 105:6829-6833, 2008) and reading 
comprehension (Chein & Morrison, Psychonomic Bulletin & Review, 17:193-199, 
2010), but transfer is not always observed (for reviews, see Morrison & Chein, 
Psychonomics Bulletin & Review, 18:46-60, 2011; Shipstead et al., Psychological 
Bulletin, 138:628-654, 2012). In contrast, recent WM training studies have 
consistently reported improvement on the trained tasks. The basis for these 
training benefits has received little attention, however, and it is not known 
which WM components and/or processes are being improved. Therefore, the goal of 
the present study was to investigate five possible mechanisms underlying the 
effects of adaptive dual n-back training on working memory (i.e., improvements 
in executive attention, updating, and focus switching, as well as increases in 
the capacity of the focus of attention and short-term memory). In addition to a 
no-contact control group, the present study also included an active control 
group whose members received nonadaptive training on the same task. All three 
groups showed significant improvements on the n-back task from pretest to 
posttest, but adaptive training produced larger improvements than did 
nonadaptive training, which in turn produced larger improvements than simply 
retesting. Adaptive, but not nonadaptive, training also resulted in improvements 
on an untrained running span task that measured the capacity of the focus of 
attention. No other differential improvements were observed, suggesting that 
increases in the capacity of the focus of attention underlie the benefits of 
adaptive dual n-back training.

DOI: 10.3758/s13423-012-0335-6
PMID: 23184506 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


185. Psychol Sci. 2013 Jan 1;24(1):87-92. doi: 10.1177/0956797612450883. Epub 2012 
Nov 26.

Early executive function predicts reasoning development.

Richland LE(1), Burchinal MR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Comparative Human Development,University of Chicago, 5736 S. 
Woodlawn Ave., Chicago, IL 60637, USA. lrichland@uchicago.edu

Analogical reasoning is a core cognitive skill that distinguishes humans from 
all other species and contributes to general fluid intelligence, creativity, and 
adaptive learning capacities. Yet its origins are not well understood. In the 
study reported here, we analyzed large-scale longitudinal data from the Study of 
Early Child Care and Youth Development to test predictors of growth in 
analogical-reasoning skill from third grade to adolescence. Our results suggest 
an integrative resolution to the theoretical debate regarding contributory 
factors arising from smaller-scale, cross-sectional experiments on analogy 
development. Children with greater executive-function skills (both composite and 
inhibitory control) and vocabulary knowledge in early elementary school 
displayed higher scores on a verbal analogies task at age 15 years, even after 
adjusting for key covariates. We posit that knowledge is a prerequisite to 
analogy performance, but strong executive-functioning resources during early 
childhood are related to long-term gains in fundamental reasoning skills.

DOI: 10.1177/0956797612450883
PMID: 23184588 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


186. Artif Life. 2013 Winter;19(1):67-78. doi: 10.1162/ARTL_a_00081. Epub 2012 Nov 
27.

A fluid-filled soft robot that exhibits spontaneous switching among versatile 
spatiotemporal oscillatory patterns inspired by the true slime mold.

Umedachi T(1), Idei R, Ito K, Ishiguro A.

Author information:
(1)Hiroshima University, Japan Society for the Promotion of Science, Japan. 
takuya.umedachi@gmail.com

Behavioral diversity is an essential feature of living systems, enabling them to 
exhibit adaptive behavior in hostile and dynamically changing environments. 
However, traditional engineering approaches strive to avoid, or suppress, the 
behavioral diversity in artificial systems to achieve high performance in 
specific environments for given tasks. The goals of this research include 
understanding how living systems exhibit behavioral diversity and using these 
findings to build lifelike robots that exhibit truly adaptive behaviors. To this 
end, we have focused on one of the most primitive forms of intelligence 
concerning behavioral diversity, namely, a plasmodium of true slime mold. The 
plasmodium is a large amoeba-like unicellular organism that does not possess any 
nervous system or specialized organs. However, it exhibits versatile 
spatiotemporal oscillatory patterns and switches spontaneously between these. 
Inspired by the plasmodium, we built a mathematical model that exhibits 
versatile oscillatory patterns and spontaneously transitions between these 
patterns. This model demonstrates that, in contrast to coupled nonlinear 
oscillators with a well-designed complex diffusion network, physically 
interacting mechanosensory oscillators are capable of generating versatile 
oscillatory patterns without changing any parameters. Thus, the results are 
expected to shed new light on the design scheme for lifelike robots that exhibit 
amazingly versatile and adaptive behaviors.

DOI: 10.1162/ARTL_a_00081
PMID: 23186349 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


187. Behav Modif. 2013 May;37(3):356-77. doi: 10.1177/0145445512465307. Epub 2012 Nov 
26.

Barriers to success in parent training for young children with developmental 
delay: the role of cumulative risk.

Bagner DM(1), Graziano PA.

Author information:
(1)Florida International University, Miami, FL 33199, USA. dbagner@fiu.edu

The purpose of this study was to examine the effect of cumulative risk on 
dropout and treatment outcome in parent training. Participants were 44 families 
of young children (mean age of 49.59 months) who presented with elevated 
externalizing behavior problems and developmental delay or borderline 
developmental delay. All families were offered to receive Parent-Child 
Interaction Therapy (PCIT), an evidence-based, behavioral parent-training 
intervention, at a hospital-based outpatient clinic. Cumulative risk was 
calculated as a sum of risk variables, including socioeconomic disadvantage 
(poverty, low maternal education), family structure (single-parent household), 
and maternal risk characteristics (minority status, lower intelligence, and 
parental distress). Families with higher cumulative risk scores, especially 
those with three or more risks, were more likely to drop out of treatment and 
display diminished treatment response in child behavior and parenting skills 
compared with families with lower cumulative risk scores. However, only two 
individual risk factors (i.e., minority status and family structure) predicted 
dropout, and one individual risk factor (i.e., maternal education) predicted 
outcome. These findings suggest that it can be useful to conceptualize risk 
factors as having a cumulative, in addition to individual, influence on 
parent-training interventions for children with developmental delay and have 
significant implications for clinical practice. It is important for clinicians 
to regularly assess for risk factors, and future research should examine ways in 
which clinicians can improve retention and outcome of parent training in the 
presence of multiple risk factors.

DOI: 10.1177/0145445512465307
PMCID: PMC4479170
PMID: 23188886 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting Interests The 
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


188. Arch Clin Neuropsychol. 2013 Mar;28(2):169-79. doi: 10.1093/arclin/acs102. Epub 
2012 Nov 28.

Executive functioning as a mediator of the relationship between premorbid verbal 
intelligence and health risk behaviors in a rural-dwelling cohort: a Project 
FRONTIER study.

Menon CV(1), Jahn DR, Mauer CB, O'Bryant SE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Texas Tech University, Lubbock, TX, USA.

Limited research is available regarding the impact of neuropsychological 
functioning on health risk behaviors in rural-dwelling elderly populations. This 
cross-sectional study examined the relationships between estimated premorbid 
verbal IQ (AMNART), executive functioning impairment (EXIT25), and health risk 
behaviors including alcohol use (AUDIT), smoking, compliance with recommended 
cancer screenings, and obesity (BMI). The total sample included 456 
English-speaking adults and older adults of non-Hispanic White and Hispanic 
origin seen as part of an ongoing study of rural cognitive aging, Project 
FRONTIER. Regression analyses revealed significant independent effects of AMNART 
and EXIT25 on most health risk behaviors, and supported the hypothesized 
mediating role of EXIT25 on the relationships between AMNART and smoking, cancer 
screenings, and BMI in both cognitively impaired and healthy subgroups. This 
study clarifies the relationships between executive functioning, premorbid IQ, 
and health risk behaviors in diverse groups, and confirms that premorbid IQ 
represents an important determinant of health behaviors and neurocognitive 
outcomes.

DOI: 10.1093/arclin/acs102
PMCID: PMC3569949
PMID: 23192834 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


189. Scand J Child Adolesc Psychiatr Psychol. 2012 Nov 30;1(2):43-50. doi: 
10.21307/sjcapp-2013-007. eCollection 2013 May.

Recognition Memory for High and Low Associative Stimuli in Autistic Individuals 
with Outstanding Memory Skill.

Neumann N(1)(2), Braun C(1), Dubischar-Krivec AM(1), Bölte S(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Medical Psychology and Behavioral Neurobiology, University of 
Tübingen, Tübingen, Germany.
(2)University of Greifswald, Center for Diagnostic Radiology and Neuroradiology, 
Greifswald, Germany.
(3)Karolinska Institutet Center of Neurodevelopmental Disorders (KIND), 
Karolinska Institutet, Department of Women's and Children's Health, Stockholm, 
Sweden.

BACKGROUND: Individuals with autism exhibit typical recognition memory 
performance, but they show a reduced use of context and relational processing in 
more complex memory tasks. It is unclear whether the same is true for autistic 
individuals with exceptional memory skill for whom superior rote memory skill 
has been assumed.
OBJECTIVE: In this study, we investigated recognition memory for high and low 
associative stimuli in autistic memory experts. In accord with the rote memory 
notion, we expected an equal recognition performance for high and low 
associative stimuli and superior memorizing of nonsense material compared to 
control participants.
METHOD: Seven autistic memory experts and seven typically developed control 
subjects, matched according to age, sex, handedness, and full-scale intelligence 
quotient (IQ), were examined on a continuous old-new recognition paradigm, 
including high or low associative pseudowords and shapes. Memory expertise was 
characterized as a currently present outstanding memory skill above the 
subject's general level of ability and above the general population and was 
validated through direct clinical observation or some form of credible evidence.
RESULTS: Our hypotheses were partially corroborated with autistic memory experts 
recognizing high and low associative shapes equally well in contrast to control 
participants who showed superior recognition of high associative shapes. 
However, memory experts did not outperform control participants in the 
recognition of low associative shapes. There were no differences for the 
recognition of pseudowords.
CONCLUSIONS: Findings do not indicate enhanced memory for nonsense material, but 
a failure to make use of semantic features of abstract stimuli as assumed for 
autism as a whole.

© 2018 Nicola Neumann; et al., published by Sciendo.

DOI: 10.21307/sjcapp-2013-007
PMCID: PMC10586206
PMID: 37869707


190. Psychol Res. 2013 Nov;77(6):728-37. doi: 10.1007/s00426-012-0466-4. Epub 2012 
Nov 30.

Bilingualism and the increased attentional blink effect: evidence that the 
difference between bilinguals and monolinguals generalizes to different levels 
of second language proficiency.

Khare V(1), Verma A, Kar B, Srinivasan N, Brysbaert M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, FPPW, Henri Dunantlaan 2, 9000, Ghent, 
Belgium, vatsala.khare@ugent.be.

The attentional blink task involves rapid serial presentation of visual stimuli, 
two of which the participants have to report. The usual finding is that 
participants are impaired at reporting the second target if it appears in close 
temporal proximity to the first target. Previous research has shown that the 
effect is stronger in bilinguals than monolinguals. We investigated whether the 
difference between monolinguals and proficient bilinguals can be extended to 
bilinguals of different proficiency levels. Therefore, we replicated the 
paradigm in a large sample of Hindi-English bilinguals with different 
proficiency levels of English, as measured with a validated vocabulary test. We 
additionally measured the participants' intelligence with the raven progressive 
matrices. We found that the size of the attentional blink effect correlates with 
the degree of second language proficiency and not with the degree of 
intelligence. This indicates that research on executive control functions can be 
done with bilinguals of different proficiency levels. Our results are also in 
line with recent findings showing that the attentional blink effect is not 
primarily due to limited processing resources.

DOI: 10.1007/s00426-012-0466-4
PMID: 23196431 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. J Exp Child Psychol. 2013 Mar;114(3):375-88. doi: 10.1016/j.jecp.2012.09.015. 
Epub 2012 Nov 30.

The approximate number system and its relation to early math achievement: 
evidence from the preschool years.

Bonny JW(1), Lourenco SF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Emory University, Atlanta, GA 30322, USA. 
jbonny@emory.edu

Humans rely on two main systems of quantification; one is nonsymbolic and 
involves approximate number representations (known as the approximate number 
system or ANS), and the other is symbolic and allows for exact calculations of 
number. Despite the pervasiveness of the ANS across development, recent studies 
with adolescents and school-aged children point to individual differences in the 
precision of these representations that, importantly, have been shown to relate 
to symbolic math competence even after controlling for general aspects of 
intelligence. Such findings suggest that the ANS, which humans share with 
nonhuman animals, interfaces specifically with a uniquely human system of formal 
mathematics. Other findings, however, point to a less straightforward picture, 
leaving open questions about the nature and ontogenetic origins of the relation 
between these two systems. Testing children across the preschool period, we 
found that ANS precision correlated with early math achievement but, critically, 
that this relation was nonlinear. More specifically, the correlation between ANS 
precision and math competence was stronger for children with lower math scores 
than for children with higher math scores. Taken together, our findings suggest 
that early-developing connections between the ANS and mathematics may be 
fundamentally discontinuous. Possible mechanisms underlying such nonlinearity 
are discussed.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jecp.2012.09.015
PMCID: PMC3570698
PMID: 23201156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


192. Water Sci Technol. 2013;67(3):689-98. doi: 10.2166/wst.2012.602.

Sustainable management of a coupled groundwater-agriculture hydrosystem using 
multi-criteria simulation based optimisation.

Grundmann J(1), Schütze N, Lennartz F.

Author information:
(1)TU Dresden, Institute of Hydrology and Meteorology, 01062 Dresden, Germany. 
jens.grundmann@tu-dresden.de

In this paper we present a new simulation-based integrated water management tool 
for sustainable water resources management in arid coastal environments. This 
tool delivers optimised groundwater withdrawal scenarios considering saltwater 
intrusion as a result of agricultural and municipal water abstraction. It also 
yields a substantially improved water use efficiency of irrigated agriculture. 
To allow for a robust and fast operation we unified process modelling with 
artificial intelligence tools and evolutionary optimisation techniques. The 
aquifer behaviour is represented using an artificial neural network (ANN) which 
emulates a numerical density-dependent groundwater flow model. The impact of 
agriculture is represented by stochastic crop water production functions 
(SCWPF). Simulation-based optimisation techniques together with the SCWPF and 
ANN deliver optimal groundwater abstraction and cropping patterns. To address 
contradicting objectives, e.g. profit-oriented agriculture vs. sustainable 
abstraction scenarios, we performed multi-objective optimisations using a 
multi-criteria optimisation algorithm.

DOI: 10.2166/wst.2012.602
PMID: 23202577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


193. Dev Med Child Neurol. 2013 Feb;55(2):146-153. doi: 10.1111/dmcn.12044. Epub 2012 
Dec 4.

Understanding relationships between autism, intelligence, and epilepsy: a 
cross-disorder approach.

van Eeghen AM(1)(2), Pulsifer MB(3), Merker VL(4), Neumeyer AM(5), van Eeghen 
EE(1), Thibert RL(6), Cole AJ(7), Leigh FA(4), Plotkin SR(4), Thiele EA(1).

Author information:
(1) Department of Neurology, The Carol and James Herscot Center for Tuberous 
Sclerosis Complex, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA.
(2) Department of Neuroscience, ENCORE, Expertise Centre for Neurodevelopmental 
Disorders, Erasmus Medical Centre, Rotterdam, the Netherlands.
(3) Department of Psychiatry, Psychological Assessment Center, Massachusetts 
General Hospital, Boston, MA.
(4) Department of Neurology and Cancer Center, Massachusetts General Hospital, 
Boston, MA.
(5) Department of Neurology, Lurie Center for Autism, Massachusetts General 
Hospital, Boston, MA.
(6) Department of Neurology, Pediatric Epilepsy Service, Massachusetts General 
Hospital, Boston, MA.
(7) Department of Neurology, Epilepsy Service, Massachusetts General Hospital, 
Boston, MA, USA.

Comment in
    Dev Med Child Neurol. 2013 Feb;55(2):101-2.

AIM: As relationships between autistic traits, epilepsy, and cognitive 
functioning remain poorly understood, these associations were explored in the 
biologically related disorders tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC), 
neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1), and epilepsy.
METHOD: The Social Responsiveness Scale (SRS), a quantitative measure of 
autistic traits, was distributed to caregivers or companions of patients with 
TSC, NF1, and childhood-onset epilepsy of unknown cause (EUC), and these results 
were compared with SRS data from individuals with idiopathic autism spectrum 
disorders (ASDs) and their unaffected siblings. Scores and trait profiles of 
autistic features were compared with cognitive outcomes, epilepsy variables, and 
genotype.
RESULTS: A total of 180 SRS questionnaires were completed in the TSC, NF1, and 
EUC outpatient clinics at the Massachusetts General Hospital (90 females, 90 
males; mean age 21 y, range 4-63 y), and SRS data from 210 patients with ASD 
recruited from an autism research collaboration (167 males, 43 females; mean age 
9 y, range 4-22 y) and 130 unaffected siblings were available. Regression models 
showed a significant association between SRS scores and intelligence outcomes 
(p<0.001) and various seizure variables (p<0.02), but not with a specific 
underlying disorder or genotype. The level of autistic features was strongly 
associated with intelligence outcomes in patients with TSC and epilepsy 
(p<0.01); in patients with NF1 these relationships were weaker (p=0.25). For all 
study groups, autistic trait subdomains covaried with neurocognitive 
comorbidity, with endophenotypes similar to that of idiopathic autism.
INTERPRETATION: Our data show that in TSC and childhood-onset epilepsy, the 
severity and phenotype of autistic features are inextricably linked with 
intelligence and epilepsy outcomes. Such relationships were weaker for 
individuals with NF1. Findings suggest that ASDs are not specific in these 
conditions.

© The Authors. Developmental Medicine & Child Neurology © 2012 Mac Keith Press.

DOI: 10.1111/dmcn.12044
PMCID: PMC4071146
PMID: 23205844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


194. Prostaglandins Leukot Essent Fatty Acids. 2013 Jan;88(1):5-13. doi: 
10.1016/j.plefa.2012.08.005. Epub 2012 Nov 30.

A quantum theory for the irreplaceable role of docosahexaenoic acid in neural 
cell signalling throughout evolution.

Crawford MA(1), Broadhurst CL, Guest M, Nagar A, Wang Y, Ghebremeskel K, Schmidt 
WF.

Author information:
(1)Imperial College, Department of Cancer and Surgery, Division of Reproductive 
Physiology, Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Room 334, Chelsea and Westminster 
Hospital Campus, 369 Fulham Road, London SW10 9NH, UK. 
michael.crawford@imperial.ac.uk

Six hundred million years ago, the fossil record displays the sudden appearance 
of intracellular detail and the 32 phyla. The "Cambrian Explosion" marks the 
onset of dominant aerobic life. Fossil intracellular structures are so similar 
to extant organisms that they were likely made with similar membrane lipids and 
proteins, which together provided for organisation and specialisation. While 
amino acids could be synthesised over 4 billion years ago, only oxidative 
metabolism allows for the synthesis of highly unsaturated fatty acids, thus 
producing novel lipid molecular species for specialised cell membranes. 
Docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) provided the core for the development of the 
photoreceptor, and conversion of photons into electricity stimulated the 
evolution of the nervous system and brain. Since then, DHA has been conserved as 
the principle acyl component of photoreceptor synaptic and neuronal signalling 
membranes in the cephalopods, fish, amphibian, reptiles, birds, mammals and 
humans. This extreme conservation in electrical signalling membranes despite 
great genomic change suggests it was DHA dictating to DNA rather than the 
generally accepted other way around. We offer a theoretical explanation based on 
the quantum mechanical properties of DHA for such extreme conservation. The 
unique molecular structure of DHA allows for quantum transfer and communication 
of π-electrons, which explains the precise depolarisation of retinal membranes 
and the cohesive, organised neural signalling which characterises higher 
intelligence.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.plefa.2012.08.005
PMID: 23206328 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


195. J Behav Ther Exp Psychiatry. 2013 Jun;44(2):213-20. doi: 
10.1016/j.jbtep.2012.10.001. Epub 2012 Oct 29.

Perceptual processing during trauma, priming and the development of intrusive 
memories.

Sündermann O(1), Hauschildt M, Ehlers A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, King's College London, Institute of Psychiatry, 
London, UK.

BACKGROUND: Intrusive reexperiencing in posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is 
commonly triggered by stimuli with perceptual similarity to those present during 
the trauma. Information processing theories suggest that perceptual processing 
during the trauma and enhanced perceptual priming contribute to the easy 
triggering of intrusive memories by these cues.
METHODS: Healthy volunteers (N = 51) watched neutral and trauma picture stories 
on a computer screen. Neutral objects that were unrelated to the content of the 
stories briefly appeared in the interval between the pictures. Dissociation and 
data-driven processing (as indicators of perceptual processing) and state 
anxiety during the stories were assessed with self-report questionnaires. After 
filler tasks, participants completed a blurred object identification task to 
assess priming and a recognition memory task. Intrusive memories were assessed 
with telephone interviews 2 weeks and 3 months later.
RESULTS: Neutral objects were more strongly primed if they occurred in the 
context of trauma stories than if they occurred during neutral stories, although 
the effect size was only moderate [Formula: see text] and only significant when 
trauma stories were presented first. Regardless of story order, enhanced 
perceptual priming predicted intrusive memories at 2-week follow-up (N = 51), 
but not at 3 months (n = 40). Data-driven processing, dissociation and anxiety 
increases during the trauma stories also predicted intrusive memories. Enhanced 
perceptual priming and data-driven processing were associated with lower verbal 
intelligence.
LIMITATIONS: It is unclear to what extent these findings generalize to real-life 
traumatic events and whether they are specific to negative emotional events.
CONCLUSIONS: The results provide some support for the role of perceptual 
processing and perceptual priming in reexperiencing symptoms.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbtep.2012.10.001
PMCID: PMC3567434
PMID: 23207970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


196. Clin Neuropsychol. 2013;27(3):516-27. doi: 10.1080/13854046.2012.744853. Epub 
2012 Dec 6.

Re-examination of the Rey Word Recognition Test.

Bell-Sprinkel TL(1), Boone KB, Miora D, Cottingham M, Victor T, Ziegler E, 
Zeller M, Wright M.

Author information:
(1)California School of Forensic Studies, Alliant International University, Los 
Angeles, CA, USA. tbellsprinkel@att.net

Erratum in
    Clin Neuropsychol. 2013;27(4):iv.

The Rey Word Recognition Test, a brief and simple to administer free-standing 
neurocognitive performance validity test, was examined in a large known-groups 
sample (122 credible patients and 134 non-credible patients). Total correctly 
recognized was the most sensitive score, identifying 54% of non-credible 
participants using a cut-off of ≤6, while maintaining specificity of 
approximately 90%. However, specifically rates were somewhat lower in credible 
individuals with <12 years of education or borderline intelligence, or who were 
bilingual (spoke English as a second language, or learned English concurrently 
with another language), indicating that cut-offs may require minor adjustment in 
these groups. Sensitivity rates were much higher in non-credible female versus 
male mild traumatic brain injury patients (mTBI; 68% versus 48% for total 
correct), suggesting that the Rey Word Recognition Test is particularly 
effective in identifying performance invalidity in female mTBI compensation 
seekers.

DOI: 10.1080/13854046.2012.744853
PMID: 23216255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


197. Dev Med Child Neurol. 2013 Mar;55(3):278-82. doi: 10.1111/dmcn.12040. Epub 2012 
Dec 6.

Is lower IQ in children with epilepsy due to lower parental IQ? A controlled 
comparison study.

Walker NM(1), Jackson DC, Dabbs K, Jones JE, Hsu DA, Stafstrom CE, Sheth RD, 
Koehn MA, Seidenberg M, Hermann BP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and 
Public Health, Madison, WI, USA.

Comment in
    Dev Med Child Neurol. 2013 Mar;55(3):204.

AIM: The aim of this study was to determine the relationship between parent and 
child Full-scale IQ (FSIQ) in children with epilepsy and in typically developing 
comparison children and to examine parent-child IQ differences by epilepsy 
characteristics.
METHOD: The study participants were 97 children (50 males, 47 females; age range 
8-18y; mean age 12y 3mo, SD 3y1mo) with recent-onset epilepsy including 
idiopathic generalized (n=43) and idiopathic localization-related epilepsies 
(n=54); 69 healthy comparison children (38 females, 31 males; age range 8-18y; 
mean age 12y 8mo, SD 3y 2mo), and one biological parent per child. All 
participants were administered the Wechsler Abbreviated Scale of Intelligence 
(WASI). FSIQ was compared in children with epilepsy and typically developing 
children; FSIQ was compared in the parents of typically developing children and 
the parents of participants with epilepsy; parent-child FSIQ differences were 
compared between the groups.
RESULTS: FSIQ was lower in children with epilepsy than in comparison children 
(p<0.001). FSIQ of parents of children with epilepsy did not differ from the 
FSIQ of the parents of typically developing children. Children with epilepsy had 
significantly lower FSIQ than their parents (p<0.001), whereas comparison 
children did not. The parent-child IQ difference was significantly higher in the 
group with epilepsy than the comparison group (p=0.043). Epilepsy 
characteristics were not related to parent-child IQ difference.
INTERPRETATION: Parent-child IQ difference appears to be a marker of epilepsy 
impact independent of familial IQ, epilepsy syndrome, and clinical seizure 
features. This marker is evident early in the course of idiopathic epilepsies 
and can be tracked over time.

© The Authors. Developmental Medicine & Child Neurology © 2012 Mac Keith Press.

DOI: 10.1111/dmcn.12040
PMCID: PMC3570624
PMID: 23216381 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


198. Twin Res Hum Genet. 2013 Feb;16(1):451-4. doi: 10.1017/thg.2012.88. Epub 2012 
Dec 7.

Fullerton Virtual Twin Study: an update.

Segal NL(1), McGuire SA, Graham JL, Stohs JH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, California State University, Fullerton, CA, USA. 
nsegal@fullerton.edu

Virtual twins (VTs) are same-age unrelated siblings reared together from early 
infancy. These unique sibling sets replicate twinship, but without the genetic 
link. The first VT pair was identified and studied at the University of 
Minnesota in 1990, launching the development of the Fullerton Virtual Twin Study 
at California State University, Fullerton (CSUF) in 1991. The registry currently 
includes 151 pairs, mostly children, with new pairs identified on a continuous 
basis. Research with VTs includes studies of general intelligence, body size, 
interpersonal trust, social coordination, social networks, and parenting. In 
some cases, VTs have been studied in conjunction with pairs of monozygotic 
twins, dizygotic twins, full siblings, and friends as part of TAPS (Twins, 
Adoptees, Peers and Siblings), a collaborative project conducted between CSUF 
and the University of San Francisco, 2002-2006. VTs will also serve as a 
comparison group for epigenetic analyses of young Chinese twins reared apart and 
together.

DOI: 10.1017/thg.2012.88
PMID: 23218132 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


199. Int J Dev Neurosci. 2013 Apr;31(2):116-22. doi: 10.1016/j.ijdevneu.2012.11.008. 
Epub 2012 Dec 5.

The effects of Kiaa0319 knockdown on cortical and subcortical anatomy in male 
rats.

Szalkowski CE(1), Fiondella CF, Truong DT, Rosen GD, LoTurco JJ, Fitch RH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology/Behavioral Neuroscience, University of Connecticut, 
Storrs, 06269, United States. Caitlin.cleary@uconn.edu

Developmental dyslexia is a disorder characterized by a specific deficit in 
reading despite adequate overall intelligence and educational resources. The 
neurological substrate underlying these significant behavioral impairments is 
not known. Studies of post mortem brain tissue from male and female dyslexic 
individuals revealed focal disruptions of neuronal migration concentrated in the 
left hemisphere, along with aberrant symmetry of the right and left the planum 
temporale, and changes in cell size distribution within the medial geniculate 
nucleus of the thalamus (Galaburda et al., 1985; Humphreys et al., 1990). More 
recent neuroimaging studies have identified several changes in the brains of 
dyslexic individuals, including regional changes in gray matter, changes in 
white matter, and changes in patterns of functional activation. In a further 
effort to elucidate the etiology of dyslexia, epidemiological and genetic 
studies have identified several candidate dyslexia susceptibility genes. Some 
recent work has investigated associations between some of these genetic variants 
and structural changes in the brain. Variants of one candidate dyslexia 
susceptibility gene, KIAA0319, have been linked to morphological changes in the 
cerebellum and functional activational changes in the superior temporal sulcus 
(Jamadar et al., 2011; Pinel et al., 2012). Animal models have been used to 
create a knockdown of Kiaa0319 (the rodent homolog of the human gene) via in 
utero RNA interference in order to study the gene's effects on brain development 
and behavior. Studies using this animal model have demonstrated that knocking 
down the gene leads to focal disruptions of neuronal migration in the form of 
ectopias and heterotopias, similar to those observed in the brains of human 
dyslexics. However, further changes to the structure of the brain have not been 
studied following this genetic disruption. The current study sought to determine 
the effects of embryonic Kiaa0319 knockdown on volume of the cortex and 
hippocampus, as well as midsagittal area of the corpus callosum in male rats. 
Results demonstrate that Kiaa0319 knockdown did not change the volume of the 
cortex or hippocampus, but did result in a significant reduction in the 
midsagittal area of the corpus callosum. Taken in the context of previous 
reports of behavioral deficits following Kiaa0319 knockdown (Szalkowski et al., 
2012), and reports that reductions of corpus callosum size are related to 
processing deficits in humans (Paul, 2011), these results suggest that Kiaa0319 
has a specific involvement in neural systems important for temporal processing.

Copyright © 2012 ISDN. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijdevneu.2012.11.008
PMCID: PMC3689304
PMID: 23220223 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


200. Epilepsy Behav. 2013 Jan;26(1):57-60. doi: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2012.10.025. Epub 
2012 Dec 3.

Risk factors for spatial memory impairment in patients with temporal lobe 
epilepsy.

Amlerova J(1), Laczo J, Vlcek K, Javurkova A, Andel R, Marusic P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Charles University in Prague, 2nd Faculty of 
Medicine, University Hospital Motol, Prague, Czech Republic.

At present, the risk factors for world-centered (allocentric) navigation 
impairment in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) are not known. There is 
some evidence on the importance of the right hippocampus but other clinical 
features have not been investigated yet. In this study, we used an experimental 
human equivalent to the Morris water maze to examine spatial navigation 
performance in patients with drug-refractory unilateral TLE. We included 47 
left-hemisphere speech dominant patients (25 right sided; 22 left sided). The 
aim of our study was to identify clinical and demographic characteristics of TLE 
patients who performed poorly in allocentric spatial memory tests. Our results 
demonstrate that poor spatial navigation is significantly associated with 
younger age at epilepsy onset, longer disease duration, and lower intelligence 
level. Allocentric navigation in TLE patients was impaired irrespective of 
epilepsy lateralization. Good and poor navigators did not differ in their age, 
gender, or preoperative/postoperative status. This study provides evidence on 
risk factors that increase the likelihood of allocentric navigation impairment 
in TLE patients. The results indicate that not only temporal lobe dysfunction 
itself but also low general cognitive abilities may contribute to the navigation 
impairment.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2012.10.025
PMID: 23220453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


201. Psychol Sci. 2013 Jan 1;24(1):48-55. doi: 10.1177/0956797612450031. Epub 2012 
Dec 6.

The emotionally intelligent decision maker: emotion-understanding ability 
reduces the effect of incidental anxiety on risk taking.

Yip JA(1), Côté S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Yale University, 2 Hillhouse Ave., New Haven, CT 
06520-8205, USA. jeremy.yip2011@gmail.com

In two experiments, we examined how a core dimension of emotional intelligence, 
emotion-understanding ability, facilitates decision making. Individuals with 
higher levels of emotion-understanding ability can correctly identify which 
events caused their emotions and, in particular, whether their emotions stem 
from events that are unrelated to current decisions. We predicted that 
incidental feelings of anxiety, which are unrelated to current decisions, would 
reduce risk taking more strongly among individuals with lower rather than higher 
levels of emotion-understanding ability. The results of Experiment 1 confirmed 
this prediction. In Experiment 2, the effect of incidental anxiety on risk 
taking among participants with lower emotion-understanding ability, relative to 
participants with higher emotion-understanding ability, was eliminated when we 
informed participants about the source of their anxiety. This finding reveals 
that emotion-understanding ability guards against the biasing effects of 
incidental anxiety by helping individuals determine that such anxiety is 
irrelevant to current decisions.

DOI: 10.1177/0956797612450031
PMID: 23221020 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


202. Nurs Adm Q. 2013 Jan-Mar;37(1):28-36. doi: 10.1097/NAQ.0b013e31827514d2.

Mentoring frontline managers: the vital force in stimulating innovation at the 
point of care.

Shiparski L(1), Authier P.

Author information:
(1)Verras, Chicago, IL, USA. las@verras.com

Frontline managers in health care are the keepers of culture, the gateway to 
evoking a grass roots intelligence network, and they hold a pivotal role in 
advancing innovation at the point of care. Their roles are ever expanding and 
include knowledge and skills in managing the business, leading the people, and 
advancing their own leadership development. In all 3 areas, the impact of their 
leadership exponentially increases if they maximize innovative thinking and 
action. Health care executives need to establish the expectations for an 
innovative culture and the role of frontline managers. They must model the 
behaviors they promote and take the time to develop these frontline managers who 
are the hub for innovative success in the organization. This article offers 
insights and practical applications while exploring the innovation keystones of 
the following: creating an organizational culture of innovation, igniting 
collaboration that fuels diverse thinking and creativity, utilizing meaningful 
data to drive innovative decisions, and assessing and monitoring the ongoing 
climate and outcomes of innovation.

DOI: 10.1097/NAQ.0b013e31827514d2
PMID: 23222751 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203. J Appl Res Intellect Disabil. 2013 Mar;26(2):146-56. doi: 10.1111/jar.12015. 
Epub 2012 Dec 11.

Subjective quality of life of people with intellectual disabilities: the role of 
emotional competence on their subjective well-being.

Rey L(1), Extremera N, Durán A, Ortiz-Tallo M.

Author information:
(1)University of Málaga, Malaga, Spain. lrey@uma.es

BACKGROUND: For decades, the field of quality of life for people with 
intellectual disabilities has focused on the improving the external life 
conditions. However, scarce research has examined the contribution of 
person-related psychological resources such as emotional competence (EC) on 
well-being in this population.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Using a cross-sectional design, 139 adults with 
intellectual disabilities completed different measures: Subjective Happiness 
Scale, Satisfaction with Life Scale, Positive Affect and Negative Affect Scale 
and Wong and Law Emotional Intelligence Scale.
RESULTS: Emotional competence shows a positive and significant association with 
life satisfaction and happiness. EC dimensions were predictors of well-being 
beyond socio-demographic variables and dispositional affectivity.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings provide preliminary evidence of the potential value of 
considering EC in the improvement in the quality of life of people with 
intellectual disabilities. Professionals interested in intellectual disabilities 
care might consider training programmes based on EC as an additional 
intervention strategy aimed at improving well-being.

© 2012 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jar.12015
PMID: 23230008 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


204. Pediatrics. 2013 Jan;131(1):47-55. doi: 10.1542/peds.2012-0989. Epub 2012 Dec 
10.

Effects of iron supplementation of LBW infants on cognition and behavior at 3 
years.

Berglund SK(1), Westrup B, Hägglöf B, Hernell O, Domellöf M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Sciences, Umeå University, Umeå, Sweden. 
staffan.berglund@pediatri.umu.se

OBJECTIVE: Low birth weight (LBW) infants are at increased risk of cognitive and 
behavioral problems and at risk for iron deficiency, which is associated with 
impaired neurodevelopment. We hypothesized that iron supplementation of LBW 
infants would improve cognitive scores and reduce behavioral problems.
METHODS: In a randomized controlled trial, 285 marginally LBW (2000-2500 g) 
infants received 0, 1, or 2 mg/kg/day of iron supplements from 6 weeks to 6 
months of age. At 3.5 years of age, these infants and 95 normal birth weight 
controls were assessed with a psychometric test (Wechsler Preschool and Primary 
Scale of Intelligence) and a questionnaire of behavioral problems (Child 
Behavior Checklist; CBCL).
RESULTS: There were no significant differences in IQ between the LBW groups or 
LBW infants versus controls. Mean (SD) full-scale IQ was 105.2 (14.5), 104.2 
(14.7), and 104.5 (12.7) in the placebo, 1 mg, and 2 mg groups, respectively (P 
= .924). However, for behavioral problems, there was a significant effect of 
intervention. The prevalence of children with CBCL scores above the US 
subclinical cutoff was 12.7%, 2.9%, and 2.7% in the placebo, 1-mg, and 2-mg 
groups, respectively (P = .027), compared with 3.2% in controls. Relative risk 
(95% confidence interval) for CBCL score above cutoff in placebo-treated 
children versus supplemented was 4.5 (1.4-14.2).
CONCLUSIONS: Early iron supplementation of marginally LBW infants does not 
affect cognitive functions at 3.5 years of age but significantly reduces the 
prevalence of behavioral problems. The study suggests a causal relation between 
infant iron deficiency and later behavioral problems.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.2012-0989
PMID: 23230066 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


205. Expert Opin Drug Discov. 2013 Feb;8(2):105-13. doi: 
10.1517/17460441.2013.741581. Epub 2012 Dec 11.

Developing doctoral scientists for drug discovery: pluridimensional education 
required.

Janero DR.

Research universities continue to produce new scientists capable of generating 
knowledge with the potential to inform disease etiology and treatment. Mounting 
interest of doctoral-level experimental science students in therapeutics-related 
research careers is discordant with the widespread lack of direct drug-discovery 
and development experience, let alone commercialization success, among 
university faculty and administrators. Likewise, the archetypical publication- 
and grant-fueled, principal investigator (PI)-focused academic system 
("PI-stan") risks commoditization of science students pursuing their doctorates 
as a labor source, rendering them ill-prepared for career options related to 
therapeutics innovation by marginalizing their development of "beyond-the-bench" 
professional skills foundational to modern drug-discovery campaigns and career 
fluency. To militate against professionalization deficits in doctoral 
drug-discovery researchers, the author--a scientist-administrator-consultant 
with decades of discovery research and development (R&D), business, and educator 
experience in commercial and university settings--posits a critical need for 
pluridimensionality in graduate education and mentorship that extends well 
beyond thesis-related scientific domains/laboratory techniques to instill 
transferable operational-intelligence, project/people-management, and 
communication competencies. Specific initiatives are advocated to help enhance 
the doctoral science student's market competitiveness, adaptability, and 
navigation of the significant research, commercial, and occupational challenges 
associated with contemporary preclinical drug-discovery R&D.

DOI: 10.1517/17460441.2013.741581
PMID: 23231364 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


206. Psychol Bull. 2013 Jul;139(4):841-69. doi: 10.1037/a0030746. Epub 2012 Dec 10.

Investment and intellect: a review and meta-analysis.

von Stumm S(1), Ackerman PL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Goldsmiths University of London, England. 
s.vonstumm@gold.ac.uk

Cognitive or intellectual investment theories propose that the development of 
intelligence is partially influenced by personality traits, in particular by 
so-called investment traits that determine when, where, and how people invest 
their time and effort in their intellect. This investment, in turn, is thought 
to contribute to individual differences in cognitive growth and the accumulation 
of knowledge across the life span. We reviewed the psychological literature and 
identified 34 trait constructs and corresponding scales that refer to 
intellectual investment. The dispositional constructs were further classified 
into 8 related trait categories that span the construct space of intellectual 
investment. Subsequently, we sought to estimate the association between the 
identified investment traits and indicators of adult intellect, including 
measures of crystallized intelligence, academic performance (e.g., grade point 
average), college entry tests, and acquired knowledge. A meta-analysis of 112 
studies with 236 coefficients and an overall sample of 60,097 participants 
indicated that investment traits were mostly positively associated with adult 
intellect markers. Meta-analytic coefficients ranged considerably, from 0 to 
.58, with an average estimate of .30. We concluded that investment traits are 
overall positively related to adult intellect; the strength of 
investment-intellect associations differs across trait scales and markers of 
intellect; and investment traits have a diverse, multifaceted nature. The 
meta-analysis also identified areas of inquiry that are currently lacking in 
empirical research. Limitations, implications, and future directions are 
discussed.

2013 APA, all rights reserved

DOI: 10.1037/a0030746
PMID: 23231531 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. Lab Chip. 2013 Feb 7;13(3):443-51. doi: 10.1039/c2lc41156c.

An intelligent digital microfluidic system with fuzzy-enhanced feedback for 
multi-droplet manipulation.

Gao J(1), Liu X, Chen T, Mak PI, Du Y, Vai MI, Lin B, Martins RP.

Author information:
(1)State-Key Laboratory of Analog and Mixed-Signal VLSI and FST-ECE, University 
of Macau, Taipa, Macao, China.

The complexity of droplet hydrodynamics on a digital microfluidic (DMF) system 
eventually weakens its potential for application in large-scale 
chemical/biological micro-reactors. We describe here an intelligent DMF 
technology to address that intricacy. A wide variety of control-engaged droplet 
manageability is proposed and demonstrated through the operation of our modular 
DMF prototype, which comprises: (i) rigid profiling ability of different 
droplet's hydrodynamics under a real-time trajectory track of droplet-derived 
capacitance, permitting accurate and autonomous multi-droplet positioning 
without visual setup and heavy image signal processing; (ii) fuzzy-enhanced 
controllability saving up to 21% charging time when compared with the classical 
approach, enhancing the throughput, fidelity and lifetime of the DMF chip, while 
identifying and renouncing those weakened electrodes deteriorated over time, and 
(iii) expert manipulability of multi-droplet routings under countermeasure 
decisions in real time, preventing droplet-to-droplet or task-to-task 
interference. Altogether, this work exhibits the first modular DMF system with 
built-in electronic-control software-defined intelligence to enhance the 
fidelity and reliability of each droplet operation, allowing future 
manufacturability of a wide range of life science analyses and combinatorial 
chemical screening applications.

DOI: 10.1039/c2lc41156c
PMID: 23232546


208. Arch Dis Child Fetal Neonatal Ed. 2013 Jul;98(4):F316-22. doi: 
10.1136/archdischild-2012-303020. Epub 2012 Dec 12.

Congenital diaphragmatic hernia with(out) ECMO: impaired development at 8 years.

Madderom MJ(1), Toussaint L, van der Cammen-van Zijp MH, Gischler SJ, Wijnen RM, 
Tibboel D, Ijsselstijn H.

Author information:
(1)Intensive Care and Department of Pediatric Surgery, Erasmus Medical 
Center-Sophia Children's Hospital, Dr. Molewaterplein 60; Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate developmental and social-emotional outcomes at 8 years of 
age for children with congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH), treated with or 
without neonatal extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) between January 1999 
and December 2003.
DESIGN: Cohort study with structural prospective follow-up.
SETTING: Level III University Hospital.
PATIENTS: 35 children (ECMO: n=16; non-ECMO: n=19) were assessed at 8 years of 
age.
INTERVENTIONS: None.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Intelligence and motor function. Concentration, 
behaviour, school performance, competence and health status were also analysed.
RESULTS: Mean (SD) intelligence for the ECMO group was 91.7 (19.5) versus 111.6 
(20.9) for the non-ECMO group (p=0.015). Motor problems were apparent in 16% of 
all participants and differed significantly from the norm (p=0.015) without 
differences between treatment groups. For all participants, problems with 
concentration (68%, p<0.001) and with behavioural attention (33%, p=0.021) 
occurred more frequently than in reference groups, with no difference between 
treatment groups. School performance and competence were not affected.
CONCLUSIONS: Children with CDH-whether or not treated with neonatal ECMO-are at 
risk for long-term morbidity especially in the areas of motor function and 
concentration. Despite their impairment, children with CDH have a well-developed 
feeling of self-competence.

DOI: 10.1136/archdischild-2012-303020
PMID: 23235994 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209. Psychol Med. 2013 Oct;43(10):2047-56. doi: 10.1017/S0033291712002905. Epub 2012 
Dec 14.

Fronto-parietal white matter microstructural deficits are linked to performance 
IQ in a first-episode schizophrenia Han Chinese sample.

Wang Q(1), Cheung C, Deng W, Li M, Huang C, Ma X, Wang Y, Jiang L, McAlonan G, 
Sham P, Collier DA, Gong Q, Chua SE, Li T.

Author information:
(1)The Mental Health Center and Psychiatric Laboratory, West China Hospital, 
Sichuan University, Chengdu, Sichuan, People's Republic of China.

BACKGROUND: Evidence shows that cognitive deficits and white matter (WM) 
dysconnectivity can independently be associated with clinical manifestations in 
schizophrenia. It is important to explore this triadic relationship in order to 
investigate whether the triplet could serve as potential extended endophenotypes 
of schizophrenia.
METHOD: Diffusion tensor images and clinical performances were evaluated in 122 
individuals with first-episode schizophrenia and 122 age- and gender-matched 
controls. In addition, 65 of 122 of the patient group and 40 of 122 controls 
were measured using intelligence quotient (IQ) testing.
RESULTS: The schizophrenia group showed lower fractional anisotropy (FA) values 
than controls in the right cerebral frontal lobar sub-gyral (RFSG) WM. The 
schizophrenia group also showed a significant positive correlation between FA in 
the RFSG and performance IQ (PIQ) ; in turn, their PIQ score showed a 
significant negative correlation with negative syndromes.
CONCLUSIONS: Overall, these findings support the hypothesis that WM deficits may 
be a core deficit that contributes to cognitive deficits as well as to negative 
symptoms.

DOI: 10.1017/S0033291712002905
PMID: 23237024 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. Am J Med Genet A. 2013 Jan;161A(1):94-101. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.a.35685. Epub 2012 
Dec 13.

Behavior in preschool children with the 22q11.2 deletion syndrome.

Klaassen P(1), Duijff S, Swanenburg de Veye H, Vorstman J, Beemer F, Sinnema G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, The 
Netherlands. p.w.j.klaassen@umcutrecht.nl

Children with the 22q11.2 deletion syndrome (22q11DS) are at an increased risk 
of psychiatric problems from pre-adolescence; little is known, however, about 
behavioral problems at a preschool age and the relationship between speech and 
behavior in this group. Parents of 90 children (aged 1.42-5.99 years) with 
22q11DS filled out the Child Behavior Checklist, documenting behaviors including 
speech problems. Their profiles were compared with those of a comparison group 
consisting of 33 children with nonsyndromic orofacial clefts without 22q11DS, 
since both children with 22q11DS and children with clefts are expected to have 
speech problems. In the 22q11DS group, data on intelligence was acquired by 
means of formal tests. Parents of children with 22q11DS reported significantly 
higher mean scores on withdrawn behavior, affective problems and pervasive 
developmental problems compared to children with nonsyndromic clefts. 
Approximately 30% of children with 22q11DS had a score above the 97th percentile 
on at least one of the behavior subscales, indicating psychopathology. In 
children with 22q11DS, the reported behavioral problems were not associated with 
speech problems. Behavioral problems were found in 30% of young children with 
22q11DS and were unlikely to be caused by speech problems. Within the 22q11DS 
group, behavioral problems were not related to the degree of cognitive 
impairment. This shows that many children with 22q11DS, known to be at an 
increased risk of psychiatric problems from pre-adolescence, already show 
behavioral problems before the age of 6 years.

Copyright © 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.a.35685
PMID: 23239609 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


211. Alcohol Clin Exp Res. 2013 May;37(5):748-56. doi: 10.1111/acer.12024. Epub 2012 
Dec 14.

Global functional connectivity abnormalities in children with fetal alcohol 
spectrum disorders.

Wozniak JR(1), Mueller BA, Bell CJ, Muetzel RL, Hoecker HL, Boys CJ, Lim KO.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN 55454, 
USA. jwozniak@umn.edu

BACKGROUND: Previous studies, including those employing diffusion tensor imaging 
(DTI), have revealed significant disturbances in the white matter of individuals 
with fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASD). Both macrostructural and 
microstructural abnormalities have been observed across levels of FASD severity. 
Emerging evidence suggests that these white matter abnormalities are associated 
with functional deficits. This study used resting-state functional MRI (fMRI) to 
evaluate the status of network functional connectivity in children with FASD 
compared with control subjects.
METHODS: Participants included 24 children with FASD, ages 10 to 17, and 31 
matched controls. Neurocognitive tests were administered including Wechsler 
Intelligence Scales, California Verbal Learning Test (CVLT), and Behavior Rating 
Inventory of Executive Functioning. High-resolution anatomical MRI data and 
6-minute resting-state fMRI data were collected. The resting-state fMRI data 
were subjected to a graph theory analysis, and 4 global measures of cortical 
network connectivity were computed: characteristic path length, mean clustering 
coefficient, local efficiency, and global efficiency.
RESULTS: Results revealed significantly altered network connectivity in those 
with FASD. The characteristic path length was 3.1% higher (p = 0.04, Cohen's d = 
0.47), and global efficiency was 1.9% lower (p = 0.04, d = 0.63) in children 
with FASD compared with controls, suggesting decreased network capacity that may 
have implications for integrative cognitive functioning. Global efficiency was 
significantly positively correlated with cortical thickness in frontal (r = 
0.38, p = 0.005), temporal (r = 0.28, p = 0.043), and parietal (r = 0.36, p = 
0.008) regions. No relationship between facial dysmorphology and functional 
connectivity was observed. Exploratory correlations suggested that global 
efficiency and characteristic path length are associated with capacity for 
immediate verbal memory on the CVLT (r = 0.41, p = 0.05 and r = 0.41, p = 0.01, 
respectively) among those with FASD.
CONCLUSIONS: Resting-state functional connectivity measures provide new insight 
into the integrity of brain networks in clinical populations such as FASD. 
Results demonstrate that children with FASD have alterations in core components 
of network function and that these aspects of brain integrity are related to 
measures of structure and cognitive functioning.

Copyright © 2012 by the Research Society on Alcoholism.

DOI: 10.1111/acer.12024
PMCID: PMC3610852
PMID: 23240997 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


212. Mol Neurobiol. 2013 Jun;47(3):883-91. doi: 10.1007/s12035-012-8384-4. Epub 2012 
Dec 16.

A systematic analysis of genomic changes in Tg2576 mice.

Tan L(1), Wang X, Ni ZF, Zhu X, Wu W, Zhu LQ, Liu D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathophysiology, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of 
Science and Technology, Wuhan, China.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is an age-related neurodegenerative disorder 
characterized by intelligence decline, behavioral disorders and cognitive 
disability. The purpose of this study was to investigate gene expression in AD, 
based on published microarray data on Tg2576 mice. Hierarchical Cluster Analysis 
and Gene Ontology were employed to group genes together on the basis of their 
product characteristics and annotation data. Genes with prominent alterations 
were clustered into apoptosis and axon guidance pathways. Based on our findings 
and those of previous studies, we propose that the mitochondria-mediated 
apoptotic pathway plays a crucial role in the neuronal loss and synaptic 
dysfunction associated with AD. Furthermore, based on the findings of Positional 
Gene Enrichment analysis and Gene Set Enrichment analysis, we propose that the 
regulation of transcription of AD genes may be an important pathogenic factor in 
this neurodegenerative disease. Our results highlight the importance of genes 
that could subsequently be examined for their potential as prognostic markers 
for AD.

DOI: 10.1007/s12035-012-8384-4
PMID: 23242760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. Int J Epidemiol. 2013 Feb;42(1):160-71. doi: 10.1093/ije/dys207. Epub 2012 Dec 
12.

Cognition and behavioural development in early childhood: the role of birth 
weight and postnatal growth.

Huang C(1), Martorell R, Ren A, Li Z.

Author information:
(1)Department of Global Health, George Washington University, Washington DC, WA 
20037, USA. chenghuang@gwu.edu

Comment in
    Int J Epidemiol. 2013 Feb;42(1):172-5.

BACKGROUND: We evaluate the relative importance of birth weight and postnatal 
growth for cognition and behavioural development in 8389 Chinese children, 4-7 
years of age. Method Weight was the only size measure available at birth. 
Weight, height, head circumference and intelligence quotient (IQ) were measured 
between 4 and 7 years of age. Z-scores of birth weight and postnatal conditional 
weight gain to 4-7 years, as well as height and head circumference at 4-7 years 
of age, were the exposure variables. Z-scores of weight at 4-7 years were 
regressed on birth weight Z-scores, and the residual was used as the measure of 
postnatal conditional weight gain. The outcomes were child's IQ, measured by the 
Chinese Wechsler Young Children Scale of Intelligence, as well as internalizing 
behavioural problems, externalizing behavioural problems and other behavioural 
problems, evaluated by the Child Behavior Checklist 4-18. Multivariate 
regressions were conducted to investigate the relationship of birth weight and 
postnatal growth variables with the outcomes, separately for preterm children 
and term children.
RESULTS: Both birth weight and postnatal weight gain were associated with IQ 
among term children; 1 unit increment in Z-score of birth weight (∼450 g) was 
associated with an increase of 1.60 [Confidence interval (CI): 1.18-2.02; P < 
0.001] points in IQ, and 1 unit increment in conditional postnatal weight was 
associated with an increase of 0.46 (CI: 0.06-0.86; P = 0.02) points in IQ, 
after adjustment for confounders; similar patterns were observed when Z-scores 
of postnatal height and head circumference at age 4-7 years were used as 
alternative measurements of postnatal growth. Effect sizes of relationships with 
IQ were smaller than 0.1 of a standard deviation in all cases. Neither birth 
weight nor postnatal growth indicators were associated with behavioural outcomes 
among term children. In preterm children, neither birth weight nor postnatal 
growth measures were associated with IQ or behavioural outcomes.
CONCLUSIONS: Both birth weight and postnatal growth were associated with IQ but 
not behavioural outcomes for Chinese term children aged 4-7 years, but the 
effect sizes were small. No relation between either birth weight or postnatal 
growth and cognition or behavioural outcomes was observed among preterm children 
aged 4-7 years.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dys207
PMCID: PMC3600622
PMID: 23243117 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


214. Psychol Assess. 2013 Jun;25(2):391-404. doi: 10.1037/a0031175. Epub 2012 Dec 17.

An alternative Cattell-Horn-Carroll (CHC) factor structure of the WAIS-IV: age 
invariance of an alternative model for ages 70-90.

Niileksela CR(1), Reynolds MR, Kaufman AS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology and Research in Education, University of Kansas, 
Lawrence, KS 66045, USA. chrisn@ku.edu

The Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale--Fourth Edition (WAIS-IV) is by the far 
the most popular intelligence test for the assessment of adults in clinical and 
neuropsychological practice. Despite a number of studies examining the factor 
structure of the WAIS-IV from a Cattell-Horn-Carroll (CHC) perspective (Benson, 
Hulac, & Kranzler, 2010; Ward, Bergman, & Hebert, 2012), a CHC interpretation of 
the WAIS-IV for individuals ages 70 and above has been absent from the 
literature. The exclusion of individuals ages 70 and above in previous research 
is likely due to the absence of several key supplemental subtests used to create 
a full CHC model. We provide an alternative five-factor CHC model of the WAIS-IV 
which includes only the subtests administered to individuals ages 70 and above 
in the standardization sample. Our results show (a) the alternative CHC model 
fits the data well; (b) this alternative CHC model met criteria for partial 
strict measurement invariance across the life span (only Similarities showed 
noninvariance) using strict criteria; (c) the five factors for ages 70-90 
measure the same five CHC broad abilities identified in previous analyses 
reported for ages 16-69; and (d) the five-factor CHC solution for ages 70-90 is 
valid for the entire WAIS-IV age range and can be used whenever examiners 
administer the core battery but opt not to administer supplemental subtests.

PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2013 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/a0031175
PMID: 23244639 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


215. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2013 Mar 15;85(4):e193-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijrobp.2012.10.033. Epub 2012 Dec 11.

Supratentorial ependymoma: disease control, complications, and functional 
outcomes after irradiation.

Landau E(1), Boop FA, Conklin HM, Wu S, Xiong X, Merchant TE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Sheba Medical Center, Ramat Gan, Israel.

PURPOSE: Ependymoma is less commonly found in the supratentorial brain and has 
known clinical and molecular features that are unique. Our single-institution 
series provides valuable information about disease control for supratentorial 
ependymoma and the complications of supratentorial irradiation in children.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: A total of 50 children with newly diagnosed 
supratentorial ependymoma were treated with adjuvant radiation therapy (RT); 
conformal methods were used in 36 after 1996. The median age at RT was 6.5 years 
(range, 1-18.9 years). The entire group was characterized according to sex 
(girls 27), race (white 43), extent of resection (gross-total 46), and tumor 
grade (anaplastic 28). The conformal RT group was prospectively evaluated for 
neurologic, endocrine, and cognitive effects.
RESULTS: With a median follow-up time of 9.1 years from the start of RT for 
survivors (range, 0.2-23.2 years), the 10-year progression-free and overall 
survival were 73% + 7% and 76% + 6%, respectively. None of the evaluated factors 
was prognostic for disease control. Local and distant failures were evenly 
divided among the 16 patients who experienced progression. Eleven patients died 
of disease, and 1 of central nervous system necrosis. Seizure disorders were 
present in 17 patients, and 4 were considered to be clinically disabled. 
Clinically significant cognitive effects were limited to children with 
difficult-to-control seizures. The average values for intelligence quotient and 
academic achievement (reading, spelling, and math) were within the range of 
normal through 10 years of follow-up. Central hypothyroidism was the most 
commonly treated endocrinopathy.
CONCLUSION: RT may be administered with acceptable risks for complications in 
children with supratentorial ependymoma. These results suggest that outcomes for 
these children are improving and that complications may be limited by use of 
focal irradiation methods.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijrobp.2012.10.033
PMCID: PMC3705553
PMID: 23245280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest There are no conflicts of 
interest with the authors or materials in this manuscript.


216. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2013 Apr 1;85(5):1301-6. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijrobp.2012.10.031. Epub 2012 Dec 11.

Longitudinal investigation of adaptive functioning following conformal 
irradiation for pediatric craniopharyngioma and low-grade glioma.

Netson KL(1), Conklin HM, Wu S, Xiong X, Merchant TE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Kansas University School of 
Medicine-Wichita, Kansas, USA.

PURPOSE: Children treated for brain tumors with conformal radiation therapy 
experience preserved cognitive outcomes. Early evidence suggests that adaptive 
functions or independent-living skills may be spared. This longitudinal 
investigation prospectively examined intellectual and adaptive functioning 
during the first 5 years following irradiation for childhood craniopharyngioma 
and low-grade glioma (LGG). The effect of visual impairment on adaptive outcomes 
was investigated.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: Children with craniopharyngioma (n=62) and LGG (n=77) 
were treated using conformal or intensity modulated radiation therapy. The 
median age was 8.05 years (3.21-17.64 years) and 8.09 years (2.20-19.27 years), 
respectively. Serial cognitive evaluations including measures of intelligence 
quotient (IQ) and the Vineland Adaptive Behavior Scales (VABS) were conducted at 
preirradiation baseline, 6 months after treatment, and annually through 5 years. 
Five hundred eighty-eight evaluations were completed during the follow-up 
period.
RESULTS: Baseline assessment revealed no deficits in IQ and VABS indices for 
children with craniopharyngioma, with significant (P<.05) longitudinal decline 
in VABS Communication and Socialization indices. Clinical factors associated 
with more rapid decline included females and preirradiation chemotherapy 
(interferon). The only change in VABS Daily Living Skills correlated with IQ 
change (r=0.34; P=.01) in children with craniopharyngioma. Children with LGG 
performed below population norms (P<.05) at baseline on VABS Communication, 
Daily Living Indices, and the Adaptive Behavior Composite, with significant 
(P<.05) longitudinal decline limited to VABS Communication. Older age at 
irradiation was a protective factor against longitudinal decline. Severe visual 
impairment did not independently correlate with poorer adaptive outcomes for 
either tumor group.
CONCLUSIONS: There was relative sparing of postirradiation functional outcomes 
over time in this sample. Baseline differences in functional abilities before 
the initiation of irradiation suggested that other factors influence functional 
outcomes above and beyond the effects of irradiation.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijrobp.2012.10.031
PMCID: PMC3685870
PMID: 23245284 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217. Eur J Paediatr Neurol. 2013 May;17(3):294-301. doi: 10.1016/j.ejpn.2012.11.005. 
Epub 2012 Dec 14.

DTI correlates of cognition in term children with spastic diplegic cerebral 
palsy.

Rai Y(1), Chaturvedi S, Paliwal VK, Goyal P, Chourasia A, Singh Rathore RK, 
Yadav A, Pandey CM, Lalla RS, Garg RK, Gupta RK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiodiagnosis, Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of 
Medical Sciences, Raebareli Road, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, India.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Presently, there is no published study that shows 
association between cognition and white matter injury in spastic cerebral palsy. 
We aimed to correlate cognitive functions with diffusion tensor imaging derived 
metrics in spastic diplegic children.
METHODS: Twenty-two term children with spastic diplegia and 22 healthy controls 
were recruited. All patients were graded on the basis of gross motor function. 
The Indian children intelligence Test was used to quantify cognition and 
diffusion tensor imaging was used to quantify microstructural changes in various 
white matter regions. Diffusion tensor imaging metrics were quantified by 
placing regions of interests in different white matter regions like corona 
radiata, anterior limb of internal capsule, posterior limb of internal capsule, 
mid brain, pons, medulla, genu, splenium, temporal white matter, parietal white 
matter, frontal white matter and occipital white matter.
RESULTS: Spastic diplegic children showed significantly lower neuropsychological 
test scores as compared to controls. A significantly decreased fractional 
anisotropy values were observed in corona radiata, anterior limb of internal 
capsule, posterior limb of internal capsule, mid brain, pons, medulla, genu, 
splenium and occipital white matter; however significantly increased mean 
diffusivity values were observed in corona radiata, anterior limb of internal 
capsule, posterior limb of internal capsule, mid brain, pons and genu in spastic 
diplegic as compared to controls. A significant positive correlation in 
fractional anisotropy and negative correlation in mean diffusivity was observed 
with neuropsychological test scores.
CONCLUSION: These results suggest that these imaging metrics may be used as a 
biomarker of cognitive functions in term children with spastic diplegia.

Copyright © 2012 European Paediatric Neurology Society. Published by Elsevier 
Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejpn.2012.11.005
PMID: 23246381 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Neuroscience. 2013 Mar 1;232:74-82. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2012.12.006. 
Epub 2012 Dec 13.

Cognitive resources related to speech recognition with a competing talker in 
young and older listeners.

Meister H(1), Schreitmüller S(2), Grugel L(2), Ortmann M(2), Beutner D(3), 
Walger M(4), Meister IG(5).

Author information:
(1)Jean Uhrmacher Institute for Clinical ENT-Research, University of Cologne, 
D-50931 Cologne, Germany. Electronic address: hartmut.meister@uni-koeln.de.
(2)Jean Uhrmacher Institute for Clinical ENT-Research, University of Cologne, 
D-50931 Cologne, Germany.
(3)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery, University of 
Cologne, D-50924 Cologne, Germany.
(4)Jean Uhrmacher Institute for Clinical ENT-Research, University of Cologne, 
D-50931 Cologne, Germany; Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Head and Neck 
Surgery, University of Cologne, D-50924 Cologne, Germany.
(5)Department of Neurology, University of Cologne, D-50924 Cologne, Germany.

Speech recognition in a multi-talker situation poses high demands on attentional 
and other central resources. This study examines the relationship between age, 
cognition and speech recognition in tasks that require selective or divided 
attention in a multi-talker setting. Two groups of normal-hearing adults (one 
younger and one older group) were asked to repeat utterances from either one or 
two concurrent speakers. Cognitive abilities were then inspected by 
neuropsychological tests. Speech recognition scores approached its ceiling and 
did not significantly differ between age groups for tasks that demanded 
selective attention. However, when divided attention was required, performance 
in older listeners was reduced as compared to the younger group. When selective 
attention was required, speech recognition was strongly related to working 
memory skills, as determined by a regression model. In comparison, speech 
recognition for tests requiring divided attention could be more strongly 
determined by neuropsychological probes of fluid intelligence. The findings of 
this study indicate that - apart from hearing impairment - cognitive aspects 
account for the typical difficulties of older listeners in a multi-speaker 
setting. Our results are discussed in the context of evidence showing that 
frontal lobe functions in terms of working memory and fluid intelligence 
generally decline with age.

Copyright © 2012 IBRO. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2012.12.006
PMID: 23246616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Acta Psychol (Amst). 2013 Jan;142(1):74-86. doi: 10.1016/j.actpsy.2012.11.009. 
Epub 2012 Dec 17.

Selling points: What cognitive abilities are tapped by casual video games?

Baniqued PL(1), Lee H, Voss MW, Basak C, Cosman JD, Desouza S, Severson J, 
Salthouse TA, Kramer AF.

Author information:
(1)Beckman Institute & Department of Psychology, University of Illinois at 
Urbana-Champaign, IL, USA. banique1@illinois.edu

The idea that video games or computer-based applications can improve cognitive 
function has led to a proliferation of programs claiming to "train the brain." 
However, there is often little scientific basis in the development of commercial 
training programs, and many research-based programs yield inconsistent or weak 
results. In this study, we sought to better understand the nature of cognitive 
abilities tapped by casual video games and thus reflect on their potential as a 
training tool. A moderately large sample of participants (n=209) played 20 
web-based casual games and performed a battery of cognitive tasks. We used 
cognitive task analysis and multivariate statistical techniques to characterize 
the relationships between performance metrics. We validated the cognitive 
abilities measured in the task battery, examined a task analysis-based 
categorization of the casual games, and then characterized the relationship 
between game and task performance. We found that games categorized to tap 
working memory and reasoning were robustly related to performance on working 
memory and fluid intelligence tasks, with fluid intelligence best predicting 
scores on working memory and reasoning games. We discuss these results in the 
context of overlap in cognitive processes engaged by the cognitive tasks and 
casual games, and within the context of assessing near and far transfer. While 
this is not a training study, these findings provide a methodology to assess the 
validity of using certain games as training and assessment devices for specific 
cognitive abilities, and shed light on the mixed transfer results in the 
computer-based training literature. Moreover, the results can inform design of a 
more theoretically-driven and methodologically-sound cognitive training program.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.actpsy.2012.11.009
PMCID: PMC3679476
PMID: 23246789 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


220. Environ Sci Pollut Res Int. 2013 Jun;20(6):4235-53. doi: 
10.1007/s11356-012-1370-6. Epub 2012 Dec 18.

Fuzzy-logic modeling of Fenton's strong chemical oxidation process treating 
three types of landfill leachates.

Sari H(1), Yetilmezsoy K, Ilhan F, Yazici S, Kurt U, Apaydin O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Engineering, Faculty of Civil Engineering, Yildiz 
Technical University, 34220, Davutpasa, Esenler, Istanbul, Turkey. 
hsari@yildiz.edu.tr

Three multiple input and multiple output-type fuzzy-logic-based models were 
developed as an artificial intelligence-based approach to model a novel 
integrated process (UF-IER-EDBM-FO) consisted of ultrafiltration (UF), ion 
exchange resins (IER), electrodialysis with bipolar membrane (EDBM), and 
Fenton's oxidation (FO) units treating young, middle-aged, and stabilized 
landfill leachates. The FO unit was considered as the key process for 
implementation of the proposed modeling scheme. Four input components such as 
H(2)O(2)/chemical oxygen demand ratio, H(2)O(2)/Fe(2+) ratio, reaction pH, and 
reaction time were fuzzified in a Mamdani-type fuzzy inference system to predict 
the removal efficiencies of chemical oxygen demand, total organic carbon, color, 
and ammonia nitrogen. A total of 200 rules in the IF-THEN format were 
established within the framework of a graphical user interface for each 
fuzzy-logic model. The product (prod) and the center of gravity (centroid) 
methods were performed as the inference operator and defuzzification methods, 
respectively, for the proposed prognostic models. Fuzzy-logic predicted results 
were compared to the outputs of multiple regression models by means of various 
descriptive statistical indicators, and the proposed methodology was tested 
against the experimental data. The testing results clearly revealed that the 
proposed prognostic models showed a superior predictive performance with very 
high determination coefficients (R (2)) between 0.930 and 0.991. This study 
indicated a simple means of modeling and potential of a knowledge-based approach 
for capturing complicated inter-relationships in a highly non-linear problem. 
Clearly, it was shown that the proposed prognostic models provided a well-suited 
and cost-effective method to predict removal efficiencies of wastewater 
parameters prior to discharge to receiving streams.

DOI: 10.1007/s11356-012-1370-6
PMID: 23247523 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. HNO. 2013 Jan;61(1):65-70. doi: 10.1007/s00106-012-2591-1.

[Phoneme discrimination and dyslexia. Is the correlation gender-specific?].

[Article in German]

Brunner M(1), Stuhrmann N.

Author information:
(1)Univ.-HNO-Klinik, Im Neuenheimer Feld 400, 69120, Heidelberg, Deutschland. 
monika.brunner@med.uni-heidelberg.de

Amongst pediatric phoniatry patients, the number of boys suspected of having 
dyslexia and/or an auditory processing disorder dominates over the number of 
girls. The aim of this study was to analyze whether there are different 
correlation patterns between phoneme discrimination and spelling ability in male 
and female children. Data from 253 children aged between 7 and 13 were analyzed 
retrospectively. Phoneme discrimination was assessed via the Heidelberg phoneme 
discrimination test and compared to the results of spelling and intelligence 
tests. We found a highly significant correlation between phoneme discrimination 
and spelling ability within the whole population (girls: r = 0.337; boys: 
r = 0.437) at an average IQ of 107. Results of the Heidelberg phoneme 
discrimination test were below the normal average value and showed no difference 
between the male and female populations. However, the correlation between 
phoneme discrimination and spelling ability was higher for the boys than for the 
girls. We conclude that female children are better able to compensate their 
deficits in speech processing than male children and perhaps employ other 
strategies for spelling.

DOI: 10.1007/s00106-012-2591-1
PMID: 23247749 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. World J Urol. 2013 Feb;31(1):109-16. doi: 10.1007/s00345-012-1008-9. Epub 2012 
Dec 18.

A systematic review of the tools available for predicting survival and managing 
patients with urothelial carcinomas of the bladder and of the upper tract in a 
curative setting.

Drouin SJ(1), Yates DR, Hupertan V, Cussenot O, Rouprêt M.

Author information:
(1)Academic Department of Urology of la Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, 1 Assistance 
Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, Faculté de Médecine Pierre et Marie Curie, 
University Paris VI, Hôpital Pitié, 47-83 bvd de l'Hôpital, 75013, Paris, 
France.

OBJECTIVES: To identify the predictive tools which have emerged recently in the 
field of urothelial carcinomas.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We performed a thorough MEDLINE literature review using a 
combination of the following keywords: urothelial carcinoma, transitional cell 
carcinoma, bladder, renal pelvis, ureter, predictive tools, predictive models 
and nomograms. We found 117 articles, but only the relevant reports were 
selected.
RESULTS: The majority of available tools are prediction models, particularly 
nomograms. These models combine good performance accuracy with ease of use. They 
appear to be more accurate than risk grouping or tree modeling and are more 
suitable for clinicians than artificial intelligence. The most recent nomograms 
have been designed to be used in daily clinical practice and are even available 
as computer or smartphone applications. They focus on pathological outcomes or 
more frequently on survival statistics or recurrence risk after surgery. They 
provide an accurate prediction of disease evolution and may help clinicians to 
choose the most appropriate treatment option. However, these prediction tools 
still need to be validated and regularly utilized.
CONCLUSION: Predictive tools represent very helpful clinical decision-making 
aids but need to be validated in larger populations.

DOI: 10.1007/s00345-012-1008-9
PMID: 23247822 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


223. Pediatr Crit Care Med. 2013 Jan;14(1):62-9. doi: 10.1097/PCC.0b013e31825b54ae.

Sensorineural hearing loss and language development following neonatal 
extracorporeal membrane oxygenation.

van den Hondel D(1), Madderom MJ, Goedegebure A, Gischler SJ, Mazer P, Tibboel 
D, Ijsselstijn H.

Author information:
(1)Intensive Care and Department of Pediatric Surgery, Erasmus MC - Sophia 
Children's Hospital, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

Erratum in
    Pediatr Crit Care Med. 2013 Feb;14(2):237.

OBJECTIVES: To determine the prevalence of hearing loss in school-age children 
who have undergone neonatal extracorporeal membrane oxygenation treatment and to 
identify any effects of hearing loss on speech- and language development 
[corrected] .
DESIGN: Prospective longitudinal follow-up study within the framework of a 
structured post-extracorporeal membrane oxygenation follow-up program.
SETTING: Outpatient clinic of a level III university hospital.
RESULTS: Tone audiometry was performed by standardized protocol in 136 children 
aged 5-12 yrs. Hearing loss was considered clinically significant when >20 dB. 
Hearing was normal in 75.7% of children. Five children (3.7%) had bilateral 
sensorineural or combined hearing loss; three of them received special 
audiological care (2.2% of total sample). Of the 24 children with congenital 
diaphragmatic hernia, 19 (79.2%) had normal hearing and only two (8.3%) had mild 
sensorineural hearing loss, unilateral in one of them. Follow-up at 24 months of 
age had shown normal verbal and nonverbal developmental scores. Language 
development and intelligence median (range) scores at 5 yrs of age were also 
normal: receptive language development 104 (55-133), syntactical development 104 
(68-132), and lexical development 101 (50-141) for 89 children; intelligence 
quotient 104 (68-132) for 106 children. Scores did not differ among those with 
normal hearing, mild hearing loss, and moderate-to-severe hearing loss (p = 
0.800, p = 0.639, p = 0.876, and p = 0.886, for the respective developmental 
tests).
CONCLUSIONS: We found normal language development and intelligence in a cohort 
of neonatal extracorporeal membrane oxygenation survivors. The prevalence of 
bilateral sensorineural hearing loss was in accordance with that of a larger 
series in the United States-which exceeds the prevalence in the normal 
population.

DOI: 10.1097/PCC.0b013e31825b54ae
PMID: 23249782 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


224. Neuropsychopharmacology. 2013 Mar;38(4):683-9. doi: 10.1038/npp.2012.234. Epub 
2012 Nov 9.

Associations between TCF4 gene polymorphism and cognitive functions in 
schizophrenia patients and healthy controls.

Zhu X(1), Gu H, Liu Z, Xu Z, Chen X, Sun X, Zhai J, Zhang Q, Chen M, Wang K, 
Deng X, Ji F, Liu C, Li J, Dong Q, Chen C.

Author information:
(1)People's Dong-fang Hospital of Xuzhou, Xuzhou, China.

The SNP rs2958182 was reported to be significantly associated with schizophrenia 
(SCZ) in Han Chinese. This study examined this SNP's associations with cognitive 
functions in 580 SCZ patients and 498 controls. Cognitive functions were 
assessed using the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Revised (WAIS-RC), the 
Attention Network Task (ANT), the Stroop task, the dot pattern expectancy (DPX), 
task and the N-back working memory task. Results showed significant or 
marginally significant interaction effects between genotype and diagnosis status 
on IQ (P=0.011) and attention-related tasks (ie, the forward digit span of 
WAIS-RC, P=0.005; the ANT conflict effect; P=0.020, and its ratios over mean 
reaction time (RT), P=0.036; the Stroop conflict effect, P=0.032, and its ratios 
over mean RT, P=0.062; and the DPX task's error rate under the BX condition, 
P<0.001, and the error rate of BX minus the error rate of AY (BX-AY), P=0.002). 
There were no such interaction effects on the measures of working memory (all 
P-values >0.05). Further analysis of the significant genotype-by-diagnosis 
interactions showed that the risk (T) allele was associated with better 
performance on cognitive tasks in patients but with worse performance in 
controls. These results seem to indicate that the association between this SNP 
and selected cognitive functions may be of an inverted U-shaped pattern. Future 
research is needed to replicate these results and to explore the biochemical 
mechanisms behind this association.

DOI: 10.1038/npp.2012.234
PMCID: PMC3572466
PMID: 23249814 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


225. Int Psychogeriatr. 2013 Apr;25(4):617-26. doi: 10.1017/S1041610212002177. Epub 
2012 Dec 20.

Benefits of training working memory in amnestic mild cognitive impairment: 
specific and transfer effects.

Carretti B(1), Borella E, Fostinelli S, Zavagnin M.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Psychology, University of Padova, Padova, Italy.

BACKGROUND: A growing number of studies are attempting to understand how 
effective cognitive interventions may be for patients with amnestic mild 
cognitive impairment (aMCI), particularly in relation to their memory problems.
METHODS: The present study aimed to explore the benefits of a working memory 
(WM) training program in aMCI patients. Patients (N = 20) were randomly assigned 
to two training programs: the experimental group practiced with a verbal WM 
task, while the active control group conducted educational activities on memory.
RESULTS: Results showed that the aMCI patients completing the WM training 
obtained specific gains in the task trained with some transfer effects on other 
WM measures (visuospatial WM) and on processes involved in or related to WM, 
e.g. fluid intelligence (the Cattell test) and long-term memory. This was not 
the case for the aMCI control group, who experienced only a very limited 
improvement.
CONCLUSION: This pilot study suggests that WM training could be a valuable 
method for improving cognitive performance in aMCI patients, possibly delaying 
the onset of Alzheimer's disease.

DOI: 10.1017/S1041610212002177
PMID: 23253363 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


226. Atten Percept Psychophys. 2013 Apr;75(3):508-24. doi: 10.3758/s13414-012-0406-9.

Are age-related changes in cognitive function driven by age-related changes in 
sensory processing?

Humes LE(1), Busey TA, Craig J, Kewley-Port D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Speech & Hearing Sciences, Indiana University, Bloomington, IN 
47405-7002, USA. humes@indiana.edu

Although there has been keen interest in the association among measures of 
sensory function and cognitive function for many years, in general, measures of 
sensory function have been confined to one or two senses and measures of 
threshold sensitivity (acuity). In this study, rigorous psychophysical measures 
of threshold sensitivity, temporal gap detection, temporal order identification, 
and temporal masking have been obtained, in hearing, vision, and touch. In 
addition, all subjects completed 15 subtests of the Wechsler Adult Intelligence 
Scale, 3rd edition (WAIS-III). Data were obtained from 245 adults (18-87 years 
old) for the WAIS-III and for 40 measures of threshold sensitivity and temporal 
processing. The focus in this report is on individual differences in performance 
for the entire data set. Principal-components (PC) factor analysis reduced the 
40 psychophysical measures to eight correlated factors, which were reduced 
further to a single global sensory processing factor. Similarly, PC factor 
analysis of the 15 WAIS-III scores resulted in three correlated factors that 
were further reduced to a single global cognitive function factor. Age, global 
sensory processing, and global cognitive function were all moderately and 
significantly correlated with one another. However, paired partial correlations, 
controlling for the third of these three measures, revealed that the moderate 
correlation between age and global cognitive function went to zero when global 
sensory processing was controlled for; the other two partial correlations 
remained intact. Structural models confirmed this result. These analyses suggest 
that the long-standing observation of age-related changes in cognitive function 
may be mediated by age-related changes in global sensory processing.

DOI: 10.3758/s13414-012-0406-9
PMCID: PMC3617348
PMID: 23254452 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


227. J Alzheimers Dis. 2013;34(2):537-46. doi: 10.3233/JAD-121234.

Neuropsychological signs of Alzheimer's disease 8 years prior to diagnosis.

Schmid NS(1), Taylor KI, Foldi NS, Berres M, Monsch AU.

Author information:
(1)Memory Clinic, Department of Geriatrics, University Hospital, Basel, 
Switzerland.

We investigated the earliest neuropsychological changes in Alzheimer's disease 
(AD) by comparing the baseline performance of 29 individuals who subsequently 
developed AD within an average of 7.91 ± 2.70 years with 29 pairwise-matched 
individuals who remained cognitively healthy (NC). We hypothesized that subtle, 
qualitative changes in cognition precede clinical AD by several years, and 
therefore examined subjective as well as standard quantitative measures of 
cognition, in addition to subjective estimates of mood and medical status. 
Participants were selected from the 825 members of the longitudinal BASEL study 
(BAsel Study on the ELderly), all of whom had been ApoE-genotyped and received 
comprehensive bi-annual neuropsychological assessments. Within 13 years, 29 were 
diagnosed with probable AD. Each individual who progressed to AD (AD-P) was 
pairwise matched to a NC participant based on age, education, demographic 
status, observation period, and, importantly, ApoE genotype. A regression 
analysis using the lasso technique identified which of 115 neuropsychological 
variables best discriminated baseline NC from baseline AD-P performance. This 
analysis yielded eleven neuropsychological variables that optimally 
discriminated the two groups (correct classification rate: 60.4%): 1) Intrusions 
and 2) response bias in verbal learning and memory tasks; 3) delayed figure 
recall; 4-6) three Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale (WAIS) Block Design subtest 
variables; 7-8) number of errors and repetitions on letter fluency; and 9-11) 
self-report of memory problems, a feeling of sadness, and cardiac problems. 
These results suggest that the preclinical neuropsychological cascade to AD 
includes subtle but identifiable qualitative impairments in verbal and visual 
memory, visuospatial processing, error control, and subjective 
neuropsychological complaints.

DOI: 10.3233/JAD-121234
PMID: 23254631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


228. Neuroepidemiology. 2013;40(3):160-77. doi: 10.1159/000345123. Epub 2012 Dec 14.

Meteorological and intelligence evidence of long-distance transit of chemical 
weapons fallout from bombing early in the 1991 Persian Gulf War.

Tuite JJ(1), Haley RW.

Author information:
(1)jjt43@georgetown.edu

Comment in
    Neuroepidemiology. 2013;41(3-4):183-4.

BACKGROUND: Coalition bombings on the night of 18-19 January 1991, early in the 
Gulf War, targeted the Iraqi chemical weapons infrastructure. On 19 January 
1991, nerve agent alarms sounded within Coalition positions hundreds of 
kilometers to the south, and the trace presence of sarin vapor was identified by 
multiple technologies. Considering only surface dispersion of plumes from 
explosions, officials concluded that the absence of casualties around bombed 
sites precluded long-distance transit of debris to US troop positions to explain 
the alarms and detections. Consequently, they were discounted as false 
positives, and low-level nerve agent exposure early in the air war was 
disregarded in epidemiologic investigations of chronic illnesses.
INTELLIGENCE DATA: Newly assembled evidence indicates that plumes from those 
nighttime bombings of Iraqi chemical facilities would have traversed the stable 
nocturnal boundary layer and penetrated the residual layer where they would be 
susceptible to rapid transit by supergeostrophic winds. This explanation is 
supported by plume height predictions, available weather charts, weather 
satellite images showing transit of a hot air mass, effects of solar mixing of 
atmospheric layers, and observations of a stationary weather front and thermal 
inversion in the region.
CONCLUSIONS: Current evidence supports long-distance transit. Epidemiologic 
studies of chronic postwar illness should be reassessed using veterans' reports 
of hearing nerve agent alarms as the measure of exposure.

Copyright © 2012 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000345123
PMID: 23257977 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


229. Neuroepidemiology. 2013;40(3):178-89. doi: 10.1159/000345124. Epub 2012 Dec 14.

Epidemiologic evidence of health effects from long-distance transit of chemical 
weapons fallout from bombing early in the 1991 Persian Gulf War.

Haley RW(1), Tuite JJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Epidemiology, Department of Internal Medicine, University of 
Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, TX 75390-8874, USA. 
Robert.Haley@UTSouthwestern.edu

BACKGROUND: Military intelligence data published in a companion paper explain 
how chemical fallout from US and Coalition bombing of Iraqi chemical weapons 
facilities early in the air campaign transited long distance, triggering nerve 
agent alarms and exposing US troops. We report the findings of a 
population-based survey designed to test competing hypotheses on the impact on 
chronic Gulf War illness of nerve agent from early-war bombing versus post-war 
demolition.
METHODS: The US Military Health Survey performed computer-assisted telephone 
interviews of a stratified random sample of Gulf War-era veterans (n = 8,020). 
Early-war exposure was measured by having heard nerve agent alarms and post-war 
exposure, by the computer-generated plume from the Khamisiyah demolition. Gulf 
War illness was measured by two widely published case definitions.
RESULTS: The OR (95% CI) for the association of alarms with the Factor case 
definition was 4.13 (95% CI 2.51-6.80) compared with 1.21 (95% CI 0.86-1.69) for 
the Khamisiyah plume. There was a dose-related trend for the number of alarms 
(p(trend) < 0.001) but not for the number of days in the Khamisiyah plume 
(p(trend) = 0.17).
CONCLUSIONS: Exposure to low-level sarin nerve agent in fallout from bombing 
early in the air campaign contributed more to chronic illness than post-war 
demolition.

Copyright © 2012 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000345124
PMID: 23258108 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


230. Autism Res. 2013 Feb;6(1):33-41. doi: 10.1002/aur.1263. Epub 2012 Dec 19.

Exploring the relationship between anxiety and insistence on sameness in autism 
spectrum disorders.

Gotham K(1), Bishop SL, Hus V, Huerta M, Lund S, Buja A, Krieger A, Lord C.

Author information:
(1)Vanderbilt Kennedy Center, Nashville, TN, USA. 
katherine.gotham@vanderbilt.edu

Elevated anxiety symptoms are one of the most common forms of psychopathology to 
co-occur with autism spectrum disorders (ASDs). The purpose of this study was to 
explore the association between anxiety and ASD symptoms, particularly the 
degree to which the relationship is explained by insistence on sameness (IS) 
behaviors and/or cognitive ability. The sample included 1429 individuals aged 
5:8-18:0 years who participated in the Simons Simplex Collection, a genetic 
consortium study of ASD. Child Behavior Checklist Anxiety Problems T-scores and 
Autism Diagnostic Interview-Revised "IS" item raw totals were treated as both 
categorical and continuous measures of anxiety and IS, respectively. 
Chronological age, verbal intelligence quotient (IQ), and a variety of ASD 
phenotype-related and other behavioral variables were assessed for potential 
association with anxiety and IS. Anxiety and IS continuous variables were 
minimally, although significantly, associated with each other and with 
chronological age and verbal IQ. Neither anxiety nor IS was associated with 
other core autism diagnostic scores. Anxiety was associated with a variety of 
other psychiatric and behavioral symptoms in ASD, including irritability, 
attention problems, and aggression, while IS was not. Anxiety and IS appear to 
function as distinct constructs, each with a wide range of expression in 
children with ASD across age and IQ levels. Thus, both variables could be of use 
in ASD behavioral research or in dimensional approaches to genetic exploration. 
Unlike IS, however, anxiety is related to non-ASD-specific behavioral symptoms.

© 2012 International Society for Autism Research, Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/aur.1263
PMCID: PMC4373663
PMID: 23258569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


231. Curr Biol. 2013 Jan 21;23(2):156-61. doi: 10.1016/j.cub.2012.11.048. Epub 2012 
Dec 20.

Selective attention in an insect visual neuron.

Wiederman SD(1), O'Carroll DC.

Author information:
(1)Adelaide Centre for Neuroscience Research, School of Medical Sciences, The 
University of Adelaide, Adelaide, SA 5005, Australia. 
steven.wiederman@adelaide.edu.au

Comment in
    Curr Biol. 2013 Jan 21;23(2):R61-3.

Animals need attention to focus on one target amid alternative distracters. 
Dragonflies, for example, capture flies in swarms comprising prey and 
conspecifics, a feat that requires neurons to select one moving target from 
competing alternatives. Diverse evidence, from functional imaging and physiology 
to psychophysics, highlights the importance of such "competitive selection" in 
attention for vertebrates. Analogous mechanisms have been proposed in artificial 
intelligence and even in invertebrates, yet direct neural correlates of 
attention are scarce from all animal groups. Here, we demonstrate responses from 
an identified dragonfly visual neuron that perfectly match a model for 
competitive selection within limits of neuronal variability (r(2) = 0.83). 
Responses to individual targets moving at different locations within the 
receptive field differ in both magnitude and time course. However, responses to 
two simultaneous targets exclusively track those for one target alone rather 
than any combination of the pair. Irrespective of target size, contrast, or 
separation, this neuron selects one target from the pair and perfectly preserves 
the response, regardless of whether the "winner" is the stronger stimulus if 
presented alone. This neuron is amenable to electrophysiological recordings, 
providing neuroscientists with a new model system for studying selective 
attention.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cub.2012.11.048
PMID: 23260469 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


232. Surg Obes Relat Dis. 2013 Jul-Aug;9(4):574-9. doi: 10.1016/j.soard.2012.08.009. 
Epub 2012 Aug 29.

Evaluation of intelligence in an adolescent bariatric population.

Phan TL(1), Curran JL, Datto GA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Nemours/Alfred I. duPont Hospital for Children, 
Wilmington, Delaware 19803, USA. tphan@nemours.org

BACKGROUND: The use of bariatric surgery as treatment for morbid obesity in 
adolescents has nearly tripled in recent years. Intelligence is an important 
component to a patient's assent of surgery and maintenance of a healthy 
lifestyle. The objective of this study was to describe the intelligence testing 
performance of a cohort of adolescents seeking laparoscopic adjustable gastric 
banding (LAGB). Twenty-nine patients (93% female, 62% white) with a mean age of 
16 years and mean body mass index (BMI) of 49 kg/m(2) were enrolled in an 
adolescent bariatric program in the United States.
METHODS: We conducted a cross-sectional analysis, evaluating patient 
intelligence at a single preoperative time point using the Weschler Intelligence 
Scale for Children-IV or Weschler Adult Intelligence Scale-IV. Intelligence 
quotient (IQ) scores were analyzed descriptively and in relationship to patient 
anthropometric measurements and characteristics.
RESULTS: Mean IQ was average for age (95, SD 16), although 21% of patients had 
an IQ<80 and no patients had an IQ>120. There was no significant association 
between IQ and BMI, weight, or waist circumference. Mean IQ was lower in 
patients who had failed a grade compared with those who had not failed a grade 
(P<.01) and in patients whose parents had not graduated college compared with 
those whose parents had (P< .05).
CONCLUSION: In our cohort of adolescents seeking LAGB, mean IQ was average for 
age, suggesting capability to understand the procedure and healthy lifestyle 
concepts. Patients who exhibit deficits in intellect prior to surgery may 
benefit from educational resources and clinician support tailored to their 
reasoning abilities.

Copyright © 2013 American Society for Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery. Published 
by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.soard.2012.08.009
PMID: 23260803 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


233. Pediatr Infect Dis J. 2013 May;32(5):501-8. doi: 10.1097/INF.0b013e31827fb19d.

Cognitive function and neurodevelopmental outcomes in HIV-infected Children 
older than 1 year of age randomized to early versus deferred antiretroviral 
therapy: the PREDICT neurodevelopmental study.

Puthanakit T(1), Ananworanich J, Vonthanak S, Kosalaraksa P, Hansudewechakul R, 
van der Lugt J, Kerr SJ, Kanjanavanit S, Ngampiyaskul C, Wongsawat J, Luesomboon 
W, Vibol U, Pruksakaew K, Suwarnlerk T, Apornpong T, Ratanadilok K, Paul R, 
Mofenson LM, Fox L, Valcour V, Brouwers P, Ruxrungtham K; PREDICT Study Group.

Collaborators: Phanuphak P, Cooper DA, Kaldor J, Vun MC, Vonthanak S, 
Ruxrungtham K, Giaquinto C, Cotton M, Lolekha R, Sirisanthana V, Chokephaibulkit 
K, Suntarattiwong P, Volberding P, Bangdiwala S, Lim K, Samuel N, Schoenfeld D, 
Sohn A, Solomon S, Suwangool P, Wang R, Zhang F, Zoloth L, Dixon DO, Fox L, 
Ojumu AO, Bupp JE, Ussery M, Wetherall NT, Brouwers P, Mofenson LM, Douoguih M, 
Petrakova E, Law M, Shearer WT, Valcour V, Paul R, Pattanapanyasat K, Sakulploy 
N, McNicholl JM, Saisaengjan C, Rattanadilok K, Snowden W, Thoofer NK, Distel M, 
Meints AS, Methasate A, Popescu M, Srigritsanapol A, Kitsiripornchai S.

Author information:
(1)HIV-NAT, The Thai Red Cross AIDS Research Centre, Bangkok, Thailand.

BACKGROUND: We previously reported similar AIDS-free survival at 3 years in 
children who were >1 year old initiating antiretroviral therapy (ART) and 
randomized to early versus deferred ART in the Pediatric Randomized to Early 
versus Deferred Initiation in Cambodia and Thailand (PREDICT) study. We now 
report neurodevelopmental outcomes.
METHODS: Two hundred eighty-four HIV-infected Thai and Cambodian children aged 
1-12 years with CD4 counts between 15% and 24% and no AIDS-defining illness were 
randomized to initiate ART at enrollment ("early," n = 139) or when CD4 count 
became <15% or a Centers for Disease Control (CDC) category C event developed 
("deferred," n = 145). All underwent age-appropriate neurodevelopment testing 
including Beery Visual Motor Integration, Purdue Pegboard, Color Trails and 
Child Behavioral Checklist. Thai children (n = 170) also completed Wechsler 
Intelligence Scale (intelligence quotient) and Stanford Binet Memory test. We 
compared week 144 measures by randomized group and to HIV-uninfected children (n 
= 319).
RESULTS: At week 144, the median age was 9 years and 69 (48%) of the deferred 
arm children had initiated ART. The early arm had a higher CD4 (33% versus 24%, 
P < 0.001) and a greater percentage of children with viral suppression (91% 
versus 40%, P < 0.001). Neurodevelopmental scores did not differ by arm, and 
there were no differences in changes between arms across repeated assessments in 
time-varying multivariate models. HIV-infected children performed worse than 
uninfected children on intelligence quotient, Beery Visual Motor Integration, 
Binet memory and Child Behavioral Checklist.
CONCLUSIONS: In HIV-infected children surviving beyond 1 year of age without 
ART, neurodevelopmental outcomes were similar with ART initiation at CD4 15%-24% 
versus <15%, but both groups performed worse than HIV-uninfected children. The 
window of opportunity for a positive effect of ART initiation on 
neurodevelopment may remain in infancy.

DOI: 10.1097/INF.0b013e31827fb19d
PMCID: PMC3664246
PMID: 23263176 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest of authors TP has received 
speaker honoraria from Abbott. JA has received consultation or speaker honoraria 
from ViiV Health Care and Abbott. KR has been received consultation or speaker 
honoraria from ViiV Health Care and Abbott. Other authors reported no conflict 
of interest.


234. Primates. 2013 Apr;54(2):111-24. doi: 10.1007/s10329-012-0335-1. Epub 2012 Dec 
20.

On folivory, competition, and intelligence: generalisms, overgeneralizations, 
and models of primate evolution.

Sayers K(1).

Author information:
(1)Language Research Center, Georgia State University, 3401 Panthersville Rd, 
Dectur, GA 30034, USA. lrckas@gsu.edu

Considerations of primate behavioral evolution often proceed by assuming the 
ecological and competitive milieus of particular taxa via their relative 
exploitation of gross food types, such as fruits versus leaves. Although this 
"fruit/leaf dichotomy" has been repeatedly criticized, it continues to be 
implicitly invoked in discussions of primate socioecology and female social 
relationships and is explicitly invoked in models of brain evolution. An 
expanding literature suggests that such views have severely limited our 
knowledge of the social and ecological complexities of primate folivory. This 
paper examines the behavior of primate folivore-frugivores, with particular 
emphasis on gray langurs (traditionally, Semnopithecus entellus) within the 
broader context of evolutionary ecology. Although possessing morphological 
characteristics that have been associated with folivory and constrained activity 
patterns, gray langurs are known for remarkable plasticity in ecology and 
behavior. Their diets are generally quite broad and can be discussed in relation 
to Liem's Paradox, the odd coupling of anatomical feeding specializations with a 
generalist foraging strategy. Gray langurs, not coincidentally, inhabit arguably 
the widest range of habitats for a nonhuman primate, including high elevations 
in the Himalayas. They provide an excellent focal point for examining the 
assumptions and predictions of behavioral, socioecological, and cognitive 
evolutionary models. Contrary to the classical descriptions of the primate 
folivore, Himalayan and other gray langurs-and, in actuality, many leaf-eating 
primates-range widely, engage in resource competition (both of which have 
previously been noted for primate folivores), and solve ecological problems 
rivaling those of more frugivorous primates (which has rarely been argued for 
primate folivores). It is maintained that questions of primate folivore 
adaptation, temperate primate adaptation, and primate evolution more generally 
cannot be answered by the frequent approach of broad characterizations, 
categorization models, crude variables, weakly correlative evidence, and 
subjective definitions. As a corollary, many current avenues of study are 
inadequate for explaining primate adaptation. A true understanding of primate 
ecology can only be achieved through the use of mainstream evolutionary ecology 
and thorough linkage of both proximate and ultimate mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1007/s10329-012-0335-1
PMCID: PMC3644559
PMID: 23263563 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


235. Neurosci Lett. 2013 Feb 22;535:110-5. doi: 10.1016/j.neulet.2012.12.012. Epub 
2012 Dec 21.

Psychometric intelligence and P3 of the event-related potentials studied with a 
3-stimulus auditory oddball task.

Wronka E(1), Kaiser J, Coenen AM.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Psychology, Jagiellonian University, Mickiewicza 3, 31-120 
Krakow, Poland; Department of Biological Psychology, Radboud University 
Nijmegen, Montesorilaan 3, 6525 HR Nijmegen, The Netherlands. 
eligiusz.wronka@gmail.com

Relationship between psychometric intelligence measured with Raven's Advanced 
Progressive Matrices (RAPM) and event-related potentials (ERP) was examined 
using 3-stimulus oddball task. Subjects who had scored higher on RAPM exhibited 
larger amplitude of P3a component. Additional analysis using the Standardized 
Low Resolution Electromagnetic Tomography (sLORETA) revealed that this effect 
corresponds with stronger activity within the frontal cortex and the cingulate 
gyrus. High intelligence can also be linked with greater P3b response and 
stronger activity within the parietal cortex and the posterior cingulate gyrus. 
It may be concluded that the processes related to the initial stage of attention 
engagement as indexed by P3a, as well as the later stimulus evaluation and 
classification reflected in P3b, are more intense in subjects scoring higher on 
RAPM. The quality of mental abilities can therefore be related to differences of 
the activity in frontal and parietal brain regions.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neulet.2012.12.012
PMID: 23266476 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


236. Acad Med. 2013 Jan;88(1):12-5. doi: 10.1097/ACM.0b013e318276bff1.

Commentary: Recommendations and remaining questions for health care leadership 
training programs.

Stoller JK.

Effective leadership is critical for optimizing cost, access, and quality in 
health care. Creating a pipeline of effective health care leaders requires 
developing leadership competencies that differ from the usual criteria of 
clinical and scientific excellence by which physicians have traditionally been 
promoted to leadership positions. Specific competencies that differentiate 
effective leaders from average leaders, especially emotional intelligence and 
its component abilities, are essential for effective leadership.Adopting a 
long-standing practice from successful corporations, some health care 
institutions, medical societies, and business schools now offer leadership 
programs that address these differentiating leadership competencies. The author 
draws on experience with such programs through the Cleveland Clinic Academy to 
provide recommendations for health care leadership training and to identify 
unanswered questions about such programs.The author recommends that such 
training should be broadly available to all health care leadership communities 
(i.e., nurses, administrators, and physicians). A progressive curriculum, 
starting with foundational concepts and extending to coaching and feedback 
opportunities through experiential learning, recognizes the challenge of 
becoming an effective leader and the long time line needed to do so. Linking 
leadership courses to continuing medical education and to graduate credit 
opportunities is appealing to participants. Other recommendations focus on the 
importance of current leaders' involvement in nominating emerging leaders for 
participation, embedding leadership development discussions in faculty's 
professional reviews, and blending discussion of frameworks and theory with 
practical, experiential lessons. The author identifies questions about the 
benefits of formal health care leadership training that remain to be answered.

DOI: 10.1097/ACM.0b013e318276bff1
PMID: 23267224 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


237. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 2013 May;84(5):529-36. doi: 
10.1136/jnnp-2012-303811. Epub 2012 Dec 25.

Long-term outcome of hemispheric surgery at different ages in 61 epilepsy 
patients.

Althausen A(1), Gleissner U, Hoppe C, Sassen R, Buddewig S, von Lehe M, Schramm 
J, Elger CE, Helmstaedter C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epileptology, University of Bonn Medical Centre, Sigmund-Freud 
Str. 25, 53105 Bonn, Germany. anita.althausen@ukb.uni-bonn.de

OBJECTIVE: Hemispheric neurosurgery is an established treatment for severe 
epilepsy caused by extended unilateral brain pathology. However, it is still an 
unresolved question at which age surgery should best be performed. In light of 
decreasing plasticity and the cumulative impact of seizures and anticonvulsants 
on neurodevelopment, early surgery appears preferable.
METHODS: We retrospectively investigated the medical, cognitive-behavioural and 
psychosocial long-term outcome (follow-up: 9.4 years (1.1-19.4)) of 
hemispherectomy as a function of age at surgery (early: <7 years/intermediate: 
7-16 years/late: >16 years) based on a structured postal survey in a large 
patient sample (N=61/81, return rate: 75%).
RESULTS: At follow-up, 45 (74%) patients were seizure free. Presurgical levels 
of intelligence were below average in most patients (79%) and postsurgical 
cognition largely resembled the presurgical capacities. Best seizure outcome was 
obtained for early surgery patients (90% seizure free). Patients with late 
surgery, however, exhibited higher presurgical and postsurgical intelligence and 
better psychosocial achievements. Binary logistic regression identified better 
presurgical intelligence and higher age at surgery as positive predictors of 
postsurgical intelligence. Lower presurgical intelligence and postsurgical 
seizure freedom predicted intellectual pre-post improvements.
CONCLUSIONS: Our data confirm the efficacy and cognitive safety of hemispheric 
surgeries performed at different ages. Eligible older and high functioning 
patients can be perfect candidates. Presurgical intelligence serves as indicator 
of the functional integrity of the contralateral hemisphere, which mainly 
determines postsurgical cognition and psychosocial outcome. Seizure freedom 
promotes cognitive improvement. As many unknown factors determined age at 
surgery, our retrospective data neither question early surgeries nor suggest 
postponing surgery.

DOI: 10.1136/jnnp-2012-303811
PMID: 23268362 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


238. AAPS J. 2013 Apr;15(2):388-94. doi: 10.1208/s12248-012-9448-0. Epub 2012 Dec 27.

Regulatory administrative databases in FDA's Center for Biologics Evaluation and 
Research: convergence toward a unified database.

Smith JK(1).

Author information:
(1)U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), Rockville, MD 20852, USA. 
JeffreyK.Smith@fda.hhs.gov

Regulatory administrative database systems within the Food and Drug 
Administration's (FDA) Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research (CBER) are 
essential to supporting its core mission, as a regulatory agency. Such systems 
are used within FDA to manage information and processes surrounding the 
processing, review, and tracking of investigational and marketed product 
submissions. This is an area of increasing interest in the pharmaceutical 
industry and has been a topic at trade association conferences (Buckley 2012). 
Such databases in CBER are complex, not for the type or relevance of the data to 
any particular scientific discipline but because of the variety of regulatory 
submission types and processes the systems support using the data. Commonalities 
among different data domains of CBER's regulatory administrative databases are 
discussed. These commonalities have evolved enough to constitute real database 
convergence and provide a valuable asset for business process intelligence. 
Balancing review workload across staff, exploring areas of risk in review 
capacity, process improvement, and presenting a clear and comprehensive 
landscape of review obligations are just some of the opportunities of such 
intelligence. This convergence has been occurring in the presence of usual 
forces that tend to drive information technology (IT) systems development toward 
separate stovepipes and data silos. CBER has achieved a significant level of 
convergence through a gradual process, using a clear goal, agreed upon 
development practices, and transparency of database objects, rather than through 
a single, discrete project or IT vendor solution. This approach offers a path 
forward for FDA systems toward a unified database.

DOI: 10.1208/s12248-012-9448-0
PMCID: PMC3675741
PMID: 23269527 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


239. Oncol Nurs Forum. 2013 Jan;40(1):22-9. doi: 10.1188/13.ONF.22-29.

Developing emotional intelligence ability in oncology nurses: a clinical rounds 
approach.

Codier E(1), Freitas B, Muneno L.

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing and Dental Hygiene, School of Nursing and Dental Hygiene, 
University of Hawai'i-Manoa, Honolulu, HI, USA. codier@hawaii.edu

PURPOSE/OBJECTIVES: To explore the feasibility and impact of an emotional 
intelligence ability development program on staff and patient care.
DESIGN: A mixed method, pre/post-test design.
SETTING: A tertiary care hospital in urban Honolulu, HI. Rounds took place on a 
24-bed inpatient oncology unit.
SAMPLE: 33 RNs in an oncology unit.
METHODS: After collection of baseline data, the emotional intelligence rounds 
were conducted in an inpatient oncology nursing unit on all shifts during a 
10-month period.
MAIN RESEARCH VARIABLES: Demographic information, emotional intelligence scores, 
data from rounds, chart reviews of emotional care documentation, and unit-wide 
satisfaction and safety data.
FINDINGS: The ability to identify emotions in self and others was demonstrated 
less frequently than expected in this population. The low test response rate 
prevented comparison of scores pre- and postintervention.
CONCLUSIONS: The staff's 94% participation in rounds, the positive (100%) 
evaluation of rounds, and poststudy improvements in emotional care documentation 
and emotional care planning suggest a positive effect from the intervention. 
Additional research is recommended over a longer period of time to evaluate the 
impact emotional intelligence specifically has on the staff's identification of 
emotions. Because the intervention involved minimal time and resources, 
feasibility for continuation of the intervention poststudy was rated "high" by 
the research team.
IMPLICATIONS FOR NURSING: Research in other disciplines suggests that 
improvement in emotional intelligence ability in clinical staff nurses may 
improve retention, performance, and teamwork in nursing, which would be of 
particular significance in high-risk clinical practice environments.
KNOWLEDGE TRANSLATION: Few research studies have explored development of 
emotional intelligence abilities in clinical staff nurses. Evidence from this 
study suggests that interventions in the clinical environment may be used to 
develop emotional intelligence ability. Impact from such development may be used 
in the future to not only improve the quality of nursing care, but also 
potentially limit the negative effects of high-stress environments on nurses.

DOI: 10.1188/13.ONF.22-29
PMID: 23269767 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


240. J Affect Disord. 2013 Jun;148(2-3):235-42. doi: 10.1016/j.jad.2012.11.065. Epub 
2012 Dec 25.

Intelligence, temperament, and personality are related to over- or 
under-reporting of affective symptoms by patients with euthymic mood disorder.

Kim EY(1), Hwang SS, Lee NY, Kim SH, Lee HJ, Kim YS, Ahn YM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul 110-744, 
Republic of Korea.

BACKGROUND: Many patients with mood disorders report subjective indicators of 
depression that are inconsistent with clinicians' objective ratings. This study 
used the self-report Beck Depressive Inventory (BDI) and the observer-rated 
Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAMD) to evaluate the extent to which 
temperament, personality traits, and clinical characteristics accounted for 
discrepancies between self-reports and clinician ratings of depressive symptoms 
in patients experiencing the euthymic period of a mood disorder.
METHOD: The sample consisted of 100 individuals with bipolar disorder (n=72) or 
major depressive disorder (n=28). The HAMD and Young Mania Rating Scale were 
administered, and participants completed the BDI and Barratt Impulsivity Scale. 
Intelligence was assessed with the Korean Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale. 
Patients completed the Temperament Evaluation of the Memphis, Pisa, Paris, and 
San Diego Autoquestionnaire and the NEO-Five-Factor Inventory.
RESULTS: The BDI and HAMD were significantly but modestly correlated with each 
other (r=0.319, p<0.001). Lower intelligence and a less conscientious 
personality were independent contributors to differences between Z-scores for 
the BDI and the HAMD. Higher impulsivity and a more anxious temperament were 
also observed in the group that self-reported more symptoms than were noted by 
clinicians.
LIMITATIONS: Generalizability of results can be limited in ethnic difference.
CONCLUSIONS: Subjective and objective assessments of the depressive symptoms of 
patients with mood disorders in a euthymic mood state are frequently discordant. 
Clinicians should consider the subjective aspects of depressive symptoms along 
with objective information about the influence of intelligence and personality 
on patients' self-reports.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2012.11.065
PMID: 23270973 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


241. Int J Med Inform. 2013 May;82(5):345-58. doi: 10.1016/j.ijmedinf.2012.11.017. 
Epub 2012 Dec 28.

Reducing unnecessary lab testing in the ICU with artificial intelligence.

Cismondi F(1), Celi LA, Fialho AS, Vieira SM, Reti SR, Sousa JM, Finkelstein SN.

Author information:
(1)Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Engineering Systems Division, 77 
Massachusetts Avenue, 02139 Cambridge, MA, USA. cismondi@mit.edu

OBJECTIVES: To reduce unnecessary lab testing by predicting when a proposed 
future lab test is likely to contribute information gain and thereby influence 
clinical management in patients with gastrointestinal bleeding. Recent studies 
have demonstrated that frequent laboratory testing does not necessarily relate 
to better outcomes.
DESIGN: Data preprocessing, feature selection, and classification were performed 
and an artificial intelligence tool, fuzzy modeling, was used to identify lab 
tests that do not contribute an information gain. There were 11 input variables 
in total. Ten of these were derived from bedside monitor trends heart rate, 
oxygen saturation, respiratory rate, temperature, blood pressure, and urine 
collections, as well as infusion products and transfusions. The final input 
variable was a previous value from one of the eight lab tests being predicted: 
calcium, PTT, hematocrit, fibrinogen, lactate, platelets, INR and hemoglobin. 
The outcome for each test was a binary framework defining whether a test result 
contributed information gain or not.
PATIENTS: Predictive modeling was applied to recognize unnecessary lab tests in 
a real world ICU database extract comprising 746 patients with gastrointestinal 
bleeding.
MAIN RESULTS: Classification accuracy of necessary and unnecessary lab tests of 
greater than 80% was achieved for all eight lab tests. Sensitivity and 
specificity were satisfactory for all the outcomes. An average reduction of 50% 
of the lab tests was obtained. This is an improvement from previously reported 
similar studies with average performance 37% by [1-3].
CONCLUSIONS: Reducing frequent lab testing and the potential clinical and 
financial implications are an important issue in intensive care. In this work we 
present an artificial intelligence method to predict the benefit of proposed 
future laboratory tests. Using ICU data from 746 patients with gastrointestinal 
bleeding, and eleven measurements, we demonstrate high accuracy in predicting 
the likely information to be gained from proposed future lab testing for eight 
common GI related lab tests. Future work will explore applications of this 
approach to a range of underlying medical conditions and laboratory tests.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijmedinf.2012.11.017
PMCID: PMC5694620
PMID: 23273628 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest All the authors declare 
that there were no conflict of interest for the development of the project in 
general, and for the creation of this manuscript in particular.


242. Neurologia. 2013 Nov-Dec;28(9):550-7. doi: 10.1016/j.nrl.2012.11.002. Epub 2012 
Dec 28.

Significance of tuber size for complications of tuberous sclerosis complex.

[Article in English, Spanish]

Pascual-Castroviejo I(1), Hernández-Moneo JL, Pascual-Pascual SI, Viaño J, 
Gutiérrez-Molina M, Velazquez-Fragua R, Quiñones Tapia D, Morales Bastos C.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Neurología, Hospital Universitario La Paz, Madrid, España. 
Electronic address: i.pcastroviejo@neurologia.e.telefonica.net.

INTRODUCTION: Tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) is one of the most frequent 
neurocutaneous disorders. Cortical tubers are the most common pathological 
changes in TSC and they are directly related to the disease's main clinical 
manifestations: seizures, mental retardation, and autistic behaviour.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study is to establish a correlation between tuber 
size and the severity of clinical features in TSC.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: We performed a retrospective study of the clinical and 
imaging findings from 45 TSC patients (22 females and 23 males) and compared the 
clinical features with the location, size, and number of the cortical tubers in 
each patient.
RESULTS: Four patients had voluminous tubers located in 1 or both cerebral 
hemispheres. All of these patients had intractable seizures and severe mental 
retardation; 3 of these cases also presented with autistic behaviour, despite 
tubers having been resected in all 4 patients. Thirteen patients had tubers of 
large-to-average size, and all patients in this group showed intractable 
seizures and mental retardation. Nine patients who had experienced infantile 
spasms during the first year of life presented autistic behaviour. Multiple 
tubers of small to average size were found in 28 patients. In general, this 
group had seizures that responded well to antiepileptic drugs and a low 
prevalence of autism. In 3 patients who all presented good seizure control and 
normal intelligence, single cortical/subcortical tubers were located in the 
frontal or occipital lobes. Of the total of 45 patients, 13 had cerebellar as 
well as cerebral tubers; these were generally present in cases with more severe 
clinical features.
CONCLUSIONS: Although large tubers are less common than small to medium-sized 
ones, they are much more likely to be accompanied by severe clinical symptoms 
(seizures, mental retardation and autistic behaviour), even when the smaller 
tubers are quite numerous.

Copyright © 2012 Sociedad Española de Neurología. Published by Elsevier Espana. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nrl.2012.11.002
PMID: 23274119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


243. F1000Res. 2013 Jun 11;2:139. doi: 10.12688/f1000research.2-139.v2. eCollection 
2013.

A novel pseudoderivative-based mutation operator for real-coded adaptive genetic 
algorithms.

Kanwal MS(1), Ramesh AS(1), Huang LA(1).

Author information:
(1)Thomas Jefferson High School for Science and Technology, Alexandria, VA 
22312, USA.

Recent development of large databases, especially those in genetics and 
proteomics, is pushing the development of novel computational algorithms that 
implement rapid and accurate search strategies. One successful approach has been 
to use artificial intelligence and methods, including pattern recognition (e.g. 
neural networks) and optimization techniques (e.g. genetic algorithms). The 
focus of this paper is on optimizing the design of genetic algorithms by using 
an adaptive mutation rate that is derived from comparing the fitness values of 
successive generations. We propose a novel pseudoderivative-based mutation rate 
operator designed to allow a genetic algorithm to escape local optima and 
successfully continue to the global optimum. Once proven successful, this 
algorithm can be implemented to solve real problems in neurology and 
bioinformatics. As a first step towards this goal, we tested our algorithm on 
two 3-dimensional surfaces with multiple local optima, but only one global 
optimum, as well as on the N-queens problem, an applied problem in which the 
function that maps the curve is implicit. For all tests, the adaptive mutation 
rate allowed the genetic algorithm to find the global optimal solution, 
performing significantly better than other search methods, including genetic 
algorithms that implement fixed mutation rates.

DOI: 10.12688/f1000research.2-139.v2
PMCID: PMC3924953
PMID: 24627784

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: No competing interests were 
disclosed.


244. J Escience Librariansh. 2013;2(1):10.7191/jeslib.2013.1035. doi: 
10.7191/jeslib.2013.1035.

When Informationists Get Involved: the CHICA-GIS Project.

Whipple EC(1), Odell JD(2), Ralston RK(1), Liu GC(3).

Author information:
(1)Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, IN, USA.
(2)Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, IN, USA ; Indiana 
University - Purdue University, Indianapolis, IN, USA.
(3)Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, IN, USA ; University of 
Louisville, Louisville, KY, USA.

Child Health Improvement through Computer Automation (CHICA) is a computer 
decision support system (CDSS) that interfaces with existing electronic medical 
record systems (EMRS) and delivers "just-in-time" patient-relevant guidelines to 
physicians during the clinical encounter and accurately captures structured data 
from all who interact with the system. "Delivering Geospatial Intelligence to 
Health Care Professionals (CHICA-GIS)" (1R01LM010923-01) expands the medical 
application of Geographic Information Systems (GIS) by integrating a geographic 
information system with CHICA. To provide knowledge management support for 
CHICA-GIS, three informationists at the Indiana University School of Medicine 
were awarded a supplement from the National Library Medicine. The 
informationists will enhance CHICA-GIS by: improving the accuracy and 
accessibility of information, managing and mapping the knowledge which 
undergirds the CHICA-GIS decision support tool, supporting community engagement 
and consumer health information outreach, and facilitating the dissemination of 
new CHICA-GIS research results and services.

DOI: 10.7191/jeslib.2013.1035
PMCID: PMC3991552
PMID: 24749002

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure: The authors report no conflicts of 
interest.


245. J Gen Psychol. 2013 Jan-Mar;140(1):1-15. doi: 10.1080/00221309.2012.710275.

Recognition memory for faces and scenes.

Sato W(1), Yoshikawa S.

Author information:
(1)a Kyoto University.

Previous studies have suggested that face memory is unique; however, evidence is 
inconclusive. To further explore this issue, we investigated recognition memory 
for unfamiliar faces and scenes. Participants (n = 123) intentionally memorized 
the stimuli and then engaged in recognition tests. Recognition was measured 
following short (20 minutes) and long (3 weeks) retention intervals. Encoding 
strategies and intelligence were also measured. Recognition memory performance 
for faces was higher than that for scenes at both short and long intervals; 
however, the effect of retention interval was different between faces and 
scenes. A relationship between encoding strategies and memory performance was 
found for scenes but not for faces. The relationship between intelligence and 
memory performance also differed between faces and scenes. These results suggest 
that memory for faces is more robust and uses different cognitive mechanisms 
than memory for scenes.

DOI: 10.1080/00221309.2012.710275
PMID: 24837342 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


246. Ann Acad Med Stetin. 2013;59(2):109-17.

[Levels of emotional intelligence and types of attachment among third year 
students of the Faculty of Health Science and the Faculty of Medicine--a 
comparative analysis].

[Article in Polish]

Tyszkiewicz-Bandur M.

INTRODUCTION: For the purposes of this research attachment theory was 
incorporated into the concept of emotional intelligence.
MATERIAL AND METHOD: The methodological starting point of this study was the 
assumption that the level of emotional intelligence and social competence is 
related to a steady feature, namely the type of attachment. Standardized 
questionnaires available in the Laboratory of Psychological Tests of the Polish 
Psychological Association were chosen to measure the level of emotional 
intelligence. However, the type of attachment was studied by Bartholomew's Self 
Description Test in my own translation. The study involved two groups of 
students, who were compared: 147 people from the Faculty of Health 
Sciences/Faculty of Nursing (nursing, midwifery, health promotion, cosmetology, 
emergency medicine, dietetics), and 181 people from the Faculty of Medicine 
(medicine), students in their second and third years of studies. A total of 328 
people, aged 19-24, were tested.
RESULTS: On the basis of the results it was stated that students of the Faculty 
of Health Sciences/Faculty of Nursing, as compared to students of the Faculty of 
Medicine, received significantly higher scores on the scale of the social 
competence scale, which investigated the efficiency of their behaviour in 
intimate situations. Moreover, statistical analysis proved that students of the 
Faculty of Health Sciences showed significantly higher scores than those 
studying at the Faculty of Medicine in the following fields: KKS-I subscale 
assessing social competencies in--conditioning effective behaviour in intimate 
situations, emotional intelligence measured with the INTE 
questionnaire,--awareness of their own emotional states and understanding their 
causes (DINEMO-I),--ability to recognize emotions in other people and 
understanding the reasons for the reactions expressed by them 
(DINEMO-Others)--emotional intelligence measured with the DINEMO questionnaire 
(DINEMO-general score). Women from both faculties showed higher social 
competence than men in the KKS-I, and higher emotional intelligence according to 
the INTE questionnaire and DINEMO: the overall result, DINEMO-Others and 
DINEMO-I (in the last scale, at level 0.065). Male students, from both 
faculties, showed significantly higher social competence in conditioning 
effectiveness of behaviour in situations requiring assertiveness (KKS-A).
CONCLUSION: Taking into consideration the results of this study, the answer to 
the question of whether it is reasonable and necessary to develop skills among 
the examined students seems to be obvious. Indeed, assertive behaviours should 
be trained for at the Faculty of Health Sciences. At the same time skills 
related to EI--such as perceiving and processing emotional information, 
awareness of one's own and others' emotions, and associated social competencies 
in conditioning effective behaviours in intimate situations--should be trained 
for at the Faculty of Medicine.

PMID: 25026762 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


247. Ann Neurosci. 2013 Jan;20(1):31-5. doi: 10.5214/ans.0972.7531.200111.

Home based neuropsychological rehabilitation in severe traumatic brain injury: a 
case report.

Mohanty M(1), Gupta SK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, PGIMER, Chandigarh.

Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) is the most common cause of death and disability in 
young people. The patients with TBI often suffer impairments in psycho motor 
speed, memory, attention, speed of information processing, executive 
functioning, fluid intelligence, language and visuo-spatial skills. These 
impairments need to be addressed as these have a significant impact on their 
social and occupational functioning. Neuropsychological rehabilitation has been 
found to be useful in improving cognitive and day to day functioning. It focuses 
on the improvement of basic abilities which in turn enhance cognitive 
functioning. The aim of the present study was to develop a home based 
neuropsychological rehabilitation programme and examine its usefulness in severe 
TBI. A single case study method was adopted. A detailed assessment was done at 
1½ months (pre-assessment) and 9 months (post-intervention) to evaluate the 
changes. Post-intervention improvement was observed in her cognitive functions 
and day to day functioning. She had resumed her previous job also. Home based 
neuropsychological rehabilitation emerged to be useful in brain damaged 
patients.

DOI: 10.5214/ans.0972.7531.200111
PMCID: PMC4117091
PMID: 25206008


248. Int Q Community Health Educ. 2013;34(4):351-65. doi: 10.2190/IQ.34.4.e.

The role of Emotional Intelligence in mental health and Type D personality among 
young adults.

Branscum P(1), Bhochhibhoya A(1), Sharma M(2).

Author information:
(1)The University of Oklahoma, Norman.
(2)The University of Cincinnati, Ohio.

The concept of Emotional Intelligence (EI) was developed as a way to evaluate 
and highlight the importance of emotional health as it relates to overall 
quality of life. This study examines the predictive nature of EI with 
standardized measures of mental health to create a model that can be utilized to 
create more effective health promotion interventions. Step-wise multiple 
regression was used to predict mental health (Kessler K-6 scale) and Type D 
personality (Denollett's Scale of Negative Affectivity and Social Inhibition) 
with five dimensions of EI. The results revealed that while not all of the 
dimensions of EI regressed significantly in each model, mood management was 
highly predictive of all mental health measures under investigation. Cut-off 
points for each scale were also helpful in interpreting the relatedness of EI to 
mental health.

DOI: 10.2190/IQ.34.4.e
PMID: 25228484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


249. J Rural Med. 2013;8(2):205-11. doi: 10.2185/jrm.2874. Epub 2013 Nov 30.

An Analytical Model / Emotional Intelligence Quotient and QOL in Mothers with 
Infants in Japan.

Ohashi J(1), Katsura T(2), Hoshino A(3), Usui K(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Nursing Sciences, Kansai University of Health Sciences, 
Japan.
(2)Department of Preventive Nursing, Graduate School of Medicine, Kyoto 
University, Japan.
(3)Graduate School of Nursing for Health Care Science, Kyoto Prefectural 
University of Medicine, Japan.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to examine the relationship between the 
emotional intelligence quotient and health-related quality of life using 
structural equation modeling.
METHODS: A self-administered questionnaire survey was conducted among 1,911 
mothers who visited the Health Center for an infant medical examination. A 
hypothetical model was constructed using variables of the emotional intelligence 
quotient, social support, coping, parenting stress, and perceived health 
competence.
RESULT: There were a total of 1,104 valid responses (57.8%). Significant 
standardized estimates were obtained, confirming the goodness of fit issues with 
the model. The emotional intelligence quotient had a strong impact on physical 
and psychological quality of life, and showed the greatest association with 
coping. This study differed from previous studies in that, due to the inclusion 
of social support and explanatory variables in coping, an increase in coping 
strategies was more highly associated with emotional intelligence quotient 
levels than with social support.
CONCLUSION: An enhanced emotional intelligence quotient should be considered a 
primary objective to promote the health of mothers with infant children.

DOI: 10.2185/jrm.2874
PMCID: PMC4309338
PMID: 25649222


250. Trends Psychiatry Psychother. 2013;35(3):198-211. doi: 
10.1590/s2237-60892013000300007.

Translation, adaptation, and preliminary validation of the Brazilian version of 
the Behavior Problems Inventory (BPI-01).

Baraldi Gda S(1), Rojahn J(2), Seabra AG(3), Carreiro LR(4), Teixeira MC(5).

Author information:
(1)Graduate Program in Developmental Disorders, Universidade Presbiteriana 
Mackenzie, São Paulo, SP, Brazil.
(2)Applied Developmental Psychology Program, Department of Psychology, George 
Mason University, Fairfax, VA, USA.
(3)Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo, SP, Brazil.
(4)Institute of Biomedical Sciences, USP, São Paulo, SP, Brazil.
(5)Center of Health Sciences, Universidade Federal de Santa Catarina, 
Florianópolis, SC, Brazil.

INTRODUCTION: Children with atypical development often present behavior problems 
that impair their psychosocial adaptation.
OBJECTIVE: To describe the cultural adaptation to Brazilian Portuguese of the 
Behavior Problems Inventory (BPI-01), as well as preliminary indicators of 
instrument reliability and validity.
METHODS: The process involved translation, back-translation, and cultural 
adaptation of the instrument. Psychometric properties (reliability and validity) 
were assessed comparing scores obtained with the BPI-01, the Wechsler 
Intelligence Scales for Children and Adults, the Child Behavior Checklist for 
Ages 6-18 (CBCL/6-18), and the Autism Screening Questionnaire (ASQ). The sample 
comprised 60 children (30 typically developing and 30 atypically developing).
RESULTS: The cultural adaptation process was considered adequate. Internal 
consistency of the BPI-01 was satisfactory, with a Cronbach's alpha of 0.65 for 
the self-injurious behavior scale, 0.82 for stereotyped behaviors, and 0.91 for 
aggressive/destructive behaviors. Considering a mean frequency of 0.5, the 
receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve revealed 80% sensitivity and 3% 
specificity in the stereotyped behavior scale, 50 and 10% in 
aggressive/destructive behaviors, and 76 and 6% in self-injurious behaviors, 
respectively. Low-to-moderate correlations were observed between BPI-01, ASQ, 
and CBCL/6-18 scores.
CONCLUSION: BPI-01 showed good psychometric properties, with satisfactory 
preliminary indicators of reliability, convergent validity, and sensitivity for 
the diagnosis of atypical development.

DOI: 10.1590/s2237-60892013000300007
PMID: 25923392


251. Cancer Nanotechnol. 2013;4(4-5):117-125. doi: 10.1007/s12645-013-0044-5. Epub 
2013 Jul 14.

Intelligent system design for bionanorobots in drug delivery.

Fletcher M(1), Biglarbegian M(2), Neethirajan S(3).

Author information:
(1)Biomedical Engineering, University of Guelph, Guelph, Ontario Canada.
(2)Mechanical Engineering, University of Guelph, Guelph, Ontario Canada.
(3)Biomedical Engineering, University of Guelph, Guelph, Ontario Canada ; 
BioNano Laboratory, School of Engineering, University of Guelph, 50 Stone Road 
East, Guelph, Ontario N1G 2W1 Canada.

A nanorobot is defined as any smart structure which is capable of actuation, 
sensing, manipulation, intelligence, and swarm behavior at the nanoscale. In 
this study, we designed an intelligent system using fuzzy logic for diagnosis 
and treatment of tumors inside the human body using bionanorobots. We utilize 
fuzzy logic and a combination of thermal, magnetic, optical, and chemical 
nanosensors to interpret the uncertainty associated with the sensory 
information. Two different fuzzy logic structures, for diagnosis (Mamdani 
structure) and for cure (Takagi-Sugeno structure), were developed to efficiently 
identify the tumors and treat them through delivery of effective dosages of a 
drug. Validation of the designed system with simulated conditions proved that 
the drug delivery of bionanorobots was robust to reasonable noise that may occur 
in the bionanorobot sensors during navigation, diagnosis, and curing of the 
cancer cells. Bionanorobots represent a great hope for successful cancer therapy 
in the near future.

DOI: 10.1007/s12645-013-0044-5
PMCID: PMC4452041
PMID: 26069507


252. Perspect Psychol Sci. 2013 Jan;8(1):25-40. doi: 10.1177/1745691612462585.

How to Make a Young Child Smarter: Evidence From the Database of Raising 
Intelligence.

Protzko J(1), Aronson J(2), Blair C(2).

Author information:
(1)New York University protzko@gmail.com.
(2)New York University.

Can interventions meaningfully increase intelligence? If so, how? The Database 
of Raising Intelligence is a continuously updated compendium of randomized 
controlled trials that were designed to increase intelligence. In this article, 
the authors examine nearly every available intervention involving children from 
birth to kindergarten, using meta-analytic procedures when more than 3 studies 
tested similar methods and reviewing interventions when too few were available 
for meta-analysis. This yielded 4 meta-analyses on the effects of dietary 
supplementation to pregnant mothers and neonates, early educational 
interventions, interactive reading, and sending a child to preschool. All 4 
meta-analyses yielded significant results: Supplementing infants with long-chain 
polyunsaturated fatty acids, enrolling children in early educational 
interventions, reading to children in an interactive manner, and sending 
children to preschool all raise the intelligence of young children.

© The Author(s) 2013.

DOI: 10.1177/1745691612462585
PMID: 26172250


253. Insects. 2013 Nov 6;4(4):646-62. doi: 10.3390/insects4040646.

Honey Bees Inspired Optimization Method: The Bees Algorithm.

Yuce B(1), Packianather MS(2), Mastrocinque E(3), Pham DT(4), Lambiase A(5).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Sustainable Engineering, School of Engineering, Cardiff 
University, Queen's Buildings, The Parade, Cardiff CF24 3AA, UK. 
YuceB@cardiff.ac.uk.
(2)Institute of Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering, School of Engineering, 
Cardiff University, Queen's Buildings, The Parade, Cardiff CF24 3AA, UK. 
PackianatherMS@cardiff.ac.uk.
(3)Department of Industrial Engineering, University of Salerno, Via Giovanni 
Paolo II 132, Fisciano 84084, Italy. emastrocinque@unisa.it.
(4)School of Mechanical Engineering, University of Birmingham, Edgbaston, 
Birmingham B15 2TT, UK. d.t.pham@bham.ac.uk.
(5)Department of Industrial Engineering, University of Salerno, Via Giovanni 
Paolo II 132, Fisciano 84084, Italy. lambiase@unisa.it.

Optimization algorithms are search methods where the goal is to find an optimal 
solution to a problem, in order to satisfy one or more objective functions, 
possibly subject to a set of constraints. Studies of social animals and social 
insects have resulted in a number of computational models of swarm intelligence. 
Within these swarms their collective behavior is usually very complex. The 
collective behavior of a swarm of social organisms emerges from the behaviors of 
the individuals of that swarm. Researchers have developed computational 
optimization methods based on biology such as Genetic Algorithms, Particle Swarm 
Optimization, and Ant Colony. The aim of this paper is to describe an 
optimization algorithm called the Bees Algorithm, inspired from the natural 
foraging behavior of honey bees, to find the optimal solution. The algorithm 
performs both an exploitative neighborhood search combined with random 
explorative search. In this paper, after an explanation of the natural foraging 
behavior of honey bees, the basic Bees Algorithm and its improved versions are 
described and are implemented in order to optimize several benchmark functions, 
and the results are compared with those obtained with different optimization 
algorithms. The results show that the Bees Algorithm offering some advantage 
over other optimization methods according to the nature of the problem.

DOI: 10.3390/insects4040646
PMCID: PMC4553508
PMID: 26462528


254. Psychol Aging. 2013 Mar;28(1):219-31. doi: 10.1037/a0030929. Epub 2012 Dec 31.

Effect of repetition lag on priming of unfamiliar visual objects in young and 
older adults.

Gordon LT(1), Soldan A, Thomas AK, Stern Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Tufts University, Medford, MA 02155, USA. 
leamarie.gordon@tufts.edu

Across three experiments, we examined the effect of repetition lag on priming of 
unfamiliar visual objects in healthy young and older adults. Multiple levels of 
lag were examined, ranging from short (one to four intervening stimuli) to long 
(50 + intervening stimuli). In each experiment, subjects viewed a series of new 
and repeated line drawings of objects and decided whether they depicted 
structurally possible or impossible figures. Experiment 1 and 2 found similar 
levels of priming in young and older adults at short and medium lags. At the 
longer repetition lags (∼20 + intervening stimuli), older adults showed less 
overall priming, as measured by reaction time (RT) facilitation, than young 
adults. This indicates that older adults can rapidly encode unfamiliar 
three-dimensional objects to support priming at shorter lags; however, they 
cannot maintain these representations over longer intervals. In addition to 
repetition lag, we also explored the relationship between priming and cognitive 
reserve, as measured by education and verbal intelligence. In the older adults, 
higher levels of cognitive reserve were associated with greater RT priming, 
suggesting that cognitive reserve may mediate the relationship between aging and 
priming.

DOI: 10.1037/a0030929
PMCID: PMC3769096
PMID: 23276220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


255. J Pers Soc Psychol. 2013 Mar;104(3):409-26. doi: 10.1037/a0031050. Epub 2012 Dec 
31.

Accuracy and consensus in judgments of trustworthiness from faces: behavioral 
and neural correlates.

Rule NO(1), Krendl AC, Ivcevic Z, Ambady N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada. 
rule@psych.utoronto.ca

Perceivers' inferences about individuals based on their faces often show high 
interrater consensus and can even accurately predict behavior in some domains. 
Here we investigated the consensus and accuracy of judgments of trustworthiness. 
In Study 1, we showed that the type of photo judged makes a significant 
difference for whether an individual is judged as trustworthy. In Study 2, we 
found that inferences of trustworthiness made from the faces of corporate 
criminals did not differ from inferences made from the faces of noncriminal 
executives. In Study 3, we found that judgments of trustworthiness did not 
differ between the faces of military criminals and the faces of military heroes. 
In Study 4, we tempted undergraduates to cheat on a test. Although we found that 
judgments of intelligence from the students' faces were related to students' 
scores on the test and that judgments of students' extraversion were correlated 
with self-reported extraversion, there was no relationship between judgments of 
trustworthiness from the students' faces and students' cheating behavior. 
Finally, in Study 5, we examined the neural correlates of the accuracy of 
judgments of trustworthiness from faces. Replicating previous research, we found 
that perceptions of trustworthiness from the faces in Study 4 corresponded to 
participants' amygdala response. However, we found no relationship between the 
amygdala response and the targets' actual cheating behavior. These data suggest 
that judgments of trustworthiness may not be accurate but, rather, reflect 
subjective impressions for which people show high agreement.

PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2013 APA, all rights reserved

DOI: 10.1037/a0031050
PMID: 23276271 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


256. Front Biosci (Elite Ed). 2013 Jan 1;5(2):684-96. doi: 10.2741/e649.

A potential "tuning" role for the outer hair cells in children with language 
disorders.

Durand-Rivera A(1), Manzano-Martinez E, Ceballos-Reyes G.

Author information:
(1)Laboratorio de Neuroproteccion, Instituto Nacional de Rehabilitacion, INR- 
SSa Mexico D, Tlalpan, Mexico. F.alfredo.durand@gmail.com

The cochlear outer hair cells serve a tuning function, and any dysfunction of 
their electromotile response can be reflected in language disorders. Otoacoustic 
emissions can be used to determine any dysfunction of these cells. A set of 
clinical records was established to register the neurological and auditory 
functioning in 42 children, followed by assessment with the Wechsler 
Intelligence Scale for Children (WISC), the Initial Language Test (ILT), the 
Auditory and Phonetic Discrimination Evaluation (APDE), tests for measuring 
Brainstem Auditory Evoked Potential (BAEP) and Transient Otoacoustic Emissions 
(TOAE). Subjects were classified into 3 groups in this study: Control (C; n = 
20), Syntactic Phonological Disorder (SPD; n = 17), and those with Phonological 
Disability (PD; n = 5). BAEP studies showed a clear response when all children 
were stimulated to 20 dB. TOAE responses displayed clear and significant 
differences with half-octave band reproducibility for both ears, the largest 
effect being observed in the right ear. The results that were compared using 
ANOVA tests, showed that cochlear processing affects the brain language 
function, playing a critical role in the language phonetic process.

DOI: 10.2741/e649
PMID: 23277023 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


257. Sociol Health Illn. 2013 Feb;35(2):174-87. doi: 
10.1111/j.1467-9566.2012.01536.x. Epub 2012 Dec 20.

Public health intelligence and the detection of potential pandemics.

French M(1), Mykhalovskiy E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Media, Culture and Communication, New York University, New 
York, NY 10003, USA. martin.french@nyu.edu

This article considers contemporary developments in public health intelligence 
(PHI), especially their focus on health events of pandemic potential. It argues 
that the sociological study of PHI can yield important insights for the 
sociology of pandemics. PHI aims to detect health events as (or even before) 
they unfold. Whilst its apparatuses envelope traditional public health 
activities, such as epidemiological surveillance, they increasingly extend to 
non-traditional public health activities such as data-mining in electronically 
mediated social networks. With a focus on non-traditional PHI activities, the 
article first situates the study of PHI in relation to the sociology of public 
health. It then discusses the conceptualisation and actualisation of pandemics, 
reflecting on how public health professionals and organisations must equip 
themselves with diverse allies in order to realise the claims they make about 
pandemic phenomena. Finally, using the analytic tools of actor-network theory, 
sites for future empirical research that can contribute to the sociology of 
pandemics are suggested.

© 2012 The Authors. Sociology of Health & Illness © 2012 Foundation for the 
Sociology of Health & Illness/Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-9566.2012.01536.x
PMID: 23278393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


258. Child Dev. 2013 Jul-Aug;84(4):1475-90. doi: 10.1111/cdev.12036. Epub 2012 Dec 
20.

Predicting long-term growth in students' mathematics achievement: the unique 
contributions of motivation and cognitive strategies.

Murayama K(1), Pekrun R, Lichtenfeld S, Vom Hofe R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Munich, Munich, Germany 80802. 
murakou@orion.ocn.ne.jp

Erratum in
    Child Dev. 2016 Sep;87(5):1646.

This research examined how motivation (perceived control, intrinsic motivation, 
and extrinsic motivation), cognitive learning strategies (deep and surface 
strategies), and intelligence jointly predict long-term growth in students' 
mathematics achievement over 5 years. Using longitudinal data from six annual 
waves (Grades 5 through 10; Mage  = 11.7 years at baseline; N = 3,530), latent 
growth curve modeling was employed to analyze growth in achievement. Results 
showed that the initial level of achievement was strongly related to 
intelligence, with motivation and cognitive strategies explaining additional 
variance. In contrast, intelligence had no relation with the growth of 
achievement over years, whereas motivation and learning strategies were 
predictors of growth. These findings highlight the importance of motivation and 
learning strategies in facilitating adolescents' development of mathematical 
competencies.

© 2012 The Authors. Child Development © 2012 Society for Research in Child 
Development, Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/cdev.12036
PMID: 23278807 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


259. Dev Sci. 2013 Jan;16(1):13-23. doi: 10.1111/j.1467-7687.2012.01180.x. Epub 2012 
Oct 3.

The COMT Val/Met polymorphism is associated with reading-related skills and 
consistent patterns of functional neural activation.

Landi N(1), Frost SJ, Mencl WE, Preston JL, Jacobsen LK, Lee M, Yrigollen C, 
Pugh KR, Grigorenko EL.

Author information:
(1)Yale Child Study Center, USA. Nicole.landi@yale.edu

In both children and adults there is large variability in reading skill, with 
approximately 5-10% of individuals characterized as having reading disability; 
these individuals struggle to learn to read despite adequate intelligence and 
opportunity. Although it is well established that a substantial portion of this 
variability is attributed to the genetic differences between individuals, 
specifics of the connections between reading and the genome are not understood. 
This article presents data that suggest that variation in the COMT gene, which 
has previously been associated with variation in higher-order cognition, is 
associated with reading and reading-related skills, at the level of both brain 
and behavior. In particular, we found that the COMT Val/Met polymorphism at 
rs4680, which results in the substitution of the ancestral Valine (Val) by 
Methionine (Met), was associated with better performance on a number of critical 
reading measures and with patterns of functional neural activation that have 
been linked to better readers. We argue that this polymorphism, known for its 
broad effects on cognition, may modulate (likely through frontal lobe function) 
reading skill.

© 2012 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-7687.2012.01180.x
PMCID: PMC3655431
PMID: 23278923 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


260. Eur J Dent Educ. 2013 Feb;17(1):e5-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1600-0579.2012.00750.x. 
Epub 2012 Apr 5.

Emotional intelligence of pedodontics and preventive dentistry postgraduate 
students in India.

Bhaskar DJ(1), Aruna DS, Rajesh G, Suganna M, Suvarna M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health Dentistry, Teerthankar Mahaveer Dental College & 
Research Centre, Moradabad, India.

INTRODUCTION: Whilst the corporate world seems to have embraced the concept of 
emotional intelligence (EI) as a predictor of worker success, its role in the 
dental profession needs to be explored; this study provides an Indian context. 
Hence, the EI of postgraduate (PG) students of Paedodontics and Preventive 
Dentistry was assessed.
AIMS: To measure EI amongst Paedodontics PG students in India, to assess any 
gender differences in EI and associated dimensions amongst them.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 300 PG students from various dental 
institutions across India participating in their specialty national conference 
at I.T.S. Centre for Dental Studies and Research, Muradnagar, were included. EI 
was measured by the inventory developed by Singh (2004), based on Goleman's 
model (1998).
RESULTS: Overall, 240 questionnaires (80% response rate) were completed by 142 
male and 98 female PG students and analysed. Results showed that 19% and 58% of 
the respondents had very high and high EI scores, respectively. None of the 
students had poor or very poor scores. Results indicated that both males and 
females had high EI scores of 230.4 (± 10.38) and 222.6 (± 12.04), respectively. 
However, males had higher scores for dimensions of self-awareness (P<0.01), 
social awareness (P<0.01) and social skills (P<0.001) than their female 
counterparts.
CONCLUSIONS: Both male and female paedodontic postgraduate students in India had 
high EI scores. This study provides valuable baseline information on EI in an 
Indian context.

© 2012 John Wiley & Sons A/S.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0579.2012.00750.x
PMID: 23279414 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


261. J Neurosci. 2013 Jan 2;33(1):227-33. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.2030-12.2013.

Individual differences in white matter diffusion affect sleep oscillations.

Piantoni G(1), Poil SS, Linkenkaer-Hansen K, Verweij IM, Ramautar JR, Van 
Someren EJ, Van Der Werf YD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sleep and Cognition, Netherlands Institute for Neuroscience, 
1105 BA Amsterdam, The Netherlands. gio@gpiantoni.com

The characteristic oscillations of the sleeping brain, spindles and slow waves, 
show trait-like, within-subject stability and a remarkable interindividual 
variability that correlates with functionally relevant measures such as memory 
performance and intelligence. Yet, the mechanisms underlying these 
interindividual differences are largely unknown. Spindles and slow waves are 
affected by the recent history of learning and neuronal activation, indicating 
sensitivity to changes in synaptic strength and thus to the connectivity of the 
neuronal network. Because the structural backbone of this network is formed by 
white matter tracts, we hypothesized that individual differences in spindles and 
slow waves depend on the white matter microstructure across a distributed 
network. We recorded both diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance images and 
whole-night, high-density electroencephalography and investigated whether 
individual differences in sleep spindle and slow wave parameters were associated 
with diffusion tensor imaging metrics; white matter fractional anisotropy and 
axial diffusivity were quantified using tract-based spatial statistics. 
Individuals with higher spindle power had higher axial diffusivity in the 
forceps minor, the anterior corpus callosum, fascicles in the temporal lobe, and 
the tracts within and surrounding the thalamus. Individuals with a steeper 
rising slope of the slow wave had higher axial diffusivity in the temporal 
fascicle and frontally located white matter tracts (forceps minor, anterior 
corpus callosum). These results indicate that the profiles of sleep oscillations 
reflect not only the dynamics of the neuronal network at the synaptic level, but 
also the localized microstructural properties of its structural backbone, the 
white matter tracts.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.2030-12.2013
PMCID: PMC6618630
PMID: 23283336 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


262. Artif Intell Med. 2013 Jan;57(1):9-19. doi: 10.1016/j.artmed.2012.12.003. Epub 
2012 Dec 31.

Artificial intelligence framework for simulating clinical decision-making: a 
Markov decision process approach.

Bennett CC(1), Hauser K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Informatics, Centerstone Research Institute, 44 Vantage Way, 
Suite 280, Nashville, TN 37228, USA. cabennet@indiana.edu

OBJECTIVE: In the modern healthcare system, rapidly expanding costs/complexity, 
the growing myriad of treatment options, and exploding information streams that 
often do not effectively reach the front lines hinder the ability to choose 
optimal treatment decisions over time. The goal in this paper is to develop a 
general purpose (non-disease-specific) computational/artificial intelligence 
(AI) framework to address these challenges. This framework serves two potential 
functions: (1) a simulation environment for exploring various healthcare 
policies, payment methodologies, etc., and (2) the basis for clinical artificial 
intelligence - an AI that can "think like a doctor".
METHODS: This approach combines Markov decision processes and dynamic decision 
networks to learn from clinical data and develop complex plans via simulation of 
alternative sequential decision paths while capturing the sometimes conflicting, 
sometimes synergistic interactions of various components in the healthcare 
system. It can operate in partially observable environments (in the case of 
missing observations or data) by maintaining belief states about patient health 
status and functions as an online agent that plans and re-plans as actions are 
performed and new observations are obtained. This framework was evaluated using 
real patient data from an electronic health record.
RESULTS: The results demonstrate the feasibility of this approach; such an AI 
framework easily outperforms the current treatment-as-usual (TAU) 
case-rate/fee-for-service models of healthcare. The cost per unit of outcome 
change (CPUC) was $189 vs. $497 for AI vs. TAU (where lower is considered 
optimal) - while at the same time the AI approach could obtain a 30-35% increase 
in patient outcomes. Tweaking certain AI model parameters could further enhance 
this advantage, obtaining approximately 50% more improvement (outcome change) 
for roughly half the costs.
CONCLUSION: Given careful design and problem formulation, an AI simulation 
framework can approximate optimal decisions even in complex and uncertain 
environments. Future work is described that outlines potential lines of research 
and integration of machine learning algorithms for personalized medicine.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.artmed.2012.12.003
PMID: 23287490 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


263. Ultrasound Obstet Gynecol. 2013 Apr;41(4):383-9. doi: 10.1002/uog.12388.

Childhood cognitive development after fetal growth restriction.

Llurba E(1), Baschat AA, Turan OM, Harding J, McCowan LM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics, Gynecology & Reproductive Sciences, University of 
Maryland School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.

Comment in
    Ultrasound Obstet Gynecol. 2013 Apr;41(4):364-5.

OBJECTIVE: To examine the relationship between prenatal umbilical artery (UA) 
and internal carotid artery (ICA) Doppler findings and cognitive development at 
3 and 6 years in low-birth-weight children.
METHODS: This was a study of 209 low-birth-weight (< 10(th) centile) children 
born after 28 gestational weeks with UA resistance index (RI) measured within 2 
weeks before delivery. Children with normal UA- and ICA-RI were defined as 
small-for-gestational age (SGA) and those with abnormal UA or ICA Doppler 
findings as having fetal growth restriction (FGR). Cognitive ability at 3 and 6 
years' corrected age was assessed using the fourth edition of the Stanford-Binet 
Intelligence Scale (SBIS) and compared between SGA and FGR groups. An SBIS score 
< 85 was considered to indicate delayed development.
RESULTS: The median gestational age at diagnosis of abnormal fetal growth was 
36.6 (range, 28-41) weeks. There were 87 (41.6%) children classified as having 
FGR and 122 (58.4%) as SGA. The mean global SBIS score at 3 years was 109.4 (SD, 
22.8) and at 6 years it was 110.5 (SD, 13.9). Overall, 22 (10.5%) children had 
delayed development at 3 years. Total SBIS scores and individual domain scores 
did not differ between FGR and SGA groups at 3 or 6 years and similar 
proportions in each group had delayed development.
CONCLUSION: Abnormal prenatal UA and ICA Doppler findings are not associated 
with lower developmental scores in low-birth-weight children delivered in the 
third trimester of pregnancy.

Copyright © 2013 ISUOG. Published by John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/uog.12388
PMID: 23288449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


264. Environ Health. 2013 Jan 7;12:3. doi: 10.1186/1476-069X-12-3.

Economic benefits of methylmercury exposure control in Europe: monetary value of 
neurotoxicity prevention.

Bellanger M(1), Pichery C, Aerts D, Berglund M, Castaño A, Cejchanová M, Crettaz 
P, Davidson F, Esteban M, Fischer ME, Gurzau AE, Halzlova K, Katsonouri A, 
Knudsen LE, Kolossa-Gehring M, Koppen G, Ligocka D, Miklavčič A, Reis MF, Rudnai 
P, Tratnik JS, Weihe P, Budtz-Jørgensen E, Grandjean P; DEMO/COPHES.

Author information:
(1)EHESP School of Public Health, Rennes Cedex, France. 
martine.bellanger@ehesp.fr

Comment in
    Environ Health. 2013;12:2.

BACKGROUND: Due to global mercury pollution and the adverse health effects of 
prenatal exposure to methylmercury (MeHg), an assessment of the economic 
benefits of prevented developmental neurotoxicity is necessary for any 
cost-benefit analysis.
METHODS: Distributions of hair-Hg concentrations among women of reproductive age 
were obtained from the DEMOCOPHES project (1,875 subjects in 17 countries) and 
literature data (6,820 subjects from 8 countries). The exposures were assumed to 
comply with log-normal distributions. Neurotoxicity effects were estimated from 
a linear dose-response function with a slope of 0.465 Intelligence Quotient (IQ) 
point reduction per μg/g increase in the maternal hair-Hg concentration during 
pregnancy, assuming no deficits below a hair-Hg limit of 0.58 μg/g thought to be 
safe. A logarithmic IQ response was used in sensitivity analyses. The estimated 
IQ benefit cost was based on lifetime income, adjusted for purchasing power 
parity.
RESULTS: The hair-mercury concentrations were the highest in Southern Europe and 
lowest in Eastern Europe. The results suggest that, within the EU, more than 1.8 
million children are born every year with MeHg exposures above the limit of 0.58 
μg/g, and about 200,000 births exceed a higher limit of 2.5 μg/g proposed by the 
World Health Organization (WHO). The total annual benefits of exposure 
prevention within the EU were estimated at more than 600,000 IQ points per year, 
corresponding to a total economic benefit between €8,000 million and €9,000 
million per year. About four-fold higher values were obtained when using the 
logarithmic response function, while adjustment for productivity resulted in 
slightly lower total benefits. These calculations do not include the less 
tangible advantages of protecting brain development against neurotoxicity or any 
other adverse effects.
CONCLUSIONS: These estimates document that efforts to combat mercury pollution 
and to reduce MeHg exposures will have very substantial economic benefits in 
Europe, mainly in southern countries. Some data may not be entirely 
representative, some countries were not covered, and anticipated changes in 
mercury pollution all suggest a need for extended biomonitoring of human MeHg 
exposure.

DOI: 10.1186/1476-069X-12-3
PMCID: PMC3599906
PMID: 23289875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


265. Intern Med. 2013;52(1):119-24. doi: 10.2169/internalmedicine.52.8901. Epub 2013 
Jan 1.

Clinical and serial MRI findings of a sialidosis type I patient with a novel 
missense mutation in the NEU1 gene.

Sekijima Y(1), Nakamura K, Kishida D, Narita A, Adachi K, Ohno K, Nanba E, Ikeda 
S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine (Neurology and Rheumatology), Shinshu University 
School of Medicine, Japan. sekijima@shinshu-u.ac.jp

The case of a Japanese sialidosis type I patient with a novel NEU1 gene mutation 
is described. The patient developed an unsteady gait at age 14 and was referred 
to our hospital at age 16. On admission, subnormal intelligence, dysarthria, 
myoclonus, intentional tremors, limb and gait ataxia, hyperreflexia and macular 
cherry-red spots were observed. An enzymological analysis revealed a primary 
deficiency of neuraminidase. An NEU1 gene analysis identified two heterozygous 
missense mutations: p.P80L and p.D135N. The p.D135N mutation is a novel mutation 
that is considered to be associated with the mild clinical phenotype of 
sialidosis. Serial brain MRI showed diffuse brain atrophy progressing rapidly 
over the 41-month observation period.

DOI: 10.2169/internalmedicine.52.8901
PMID: 23291686 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


266. Fertil Steril. 2013 Apr;99(5):1413-1418.e1. doi: 
10.1016/j.fertnstert.2012.12.012. Epub 2013 Jan 5.

Training in empathic skills improves the patient-physician relationship during 
the first consultation in a fertility clinic.

García D(1), Bautista O, Venereo L, Coll O, Vassena R, Vernaeve V.

Author information:
(1)Fundació EUGIN, Barcelona, Spain.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the effect of physician training in empathic skills on 
patients' satisfaction just after their first consultation in a private 
fertility clinic setting.
DESIGN: Prospective study.
SETTING: Private fertility clinic.
PATIENT(S): Thirteen physicians were evaluated by 2,146 patients.
INTERVENTION(S): The empathic training of physicians was centered on emotional 
intelligence, communication elements, social styles and empathy, and practical 
workshops. After their first consultation with the physician, patients answered 
a self-rating questionnaire comprising five scales: information provided, 
dynamic of the visit, time dedicated, patient-physician interaction, and 
expertise.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE(S): Patients' satisfaction scores after the empathic 
training of physicians.
RESULT(S): For all five scales, the empathic training resulted in a significant 
change of the global scoring distribution with a shift toward higher scores. The 
intervention also resulted in a lower likelihood of low scoring (in the lower 
quartile) for all the items.
CONCLUSION(S): Training in empathic skills of physicians resulted in higher 
patient satisfaction levels on the perceived information quality, communication 
skills, and time dedicated at first consultation for fertility treatment.

Copyright © 2013 American Society for Reproductive Medicine. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fertnstert.2012.12.012
PMID: 23294674 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


267. J Commun Disord. 2013 Mar-Apr;46(2):193-201. doi: 10.1016/j.jcomdis.2012.12.001. 
Epub 2012 Dec 21.

Expressive and receptive language in Prader-Willi syndrome: report on genetic 
subtype differences.

Dimitropoulos A(1), Ferranti A, Lemler M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychological Sciences, Case Western Reserve University, 
Cleveland, OH 44106-7123, USA. anastasia.dimitropoulos@case.edu

Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS), most recognized for the hallmark hyperphagia and 
food preoccupations, is caused by the absence of expression of the paternally 
active genes in the q11-13 region of chromosome 15. Since the recognition of PWS 
as a genetic disorder, most research has focused primarily on the medical, 
genetic, and behavioral aspects of the syndrome. Extensive research has not been 
conducted on the cognitive, speech, and language abilities in PWS. In addition, 
language differences with regard to genetic mechanism of PWS have not been well 
investigated. To date, research indicates overall language ability is markedly 
below chronological age with expressive language more impaired than receptive 
language in people with PWS. Thus, the aim of the present study was to further 
characterize expressive and receptive language ability in 35 participants with 
PWS and compare functioning by genetic subtype using the Clinical Evaluation of 
Language Fundamentals-4 (CELF-IV). Results indicate that core language ability 
is significantly impaired in PWS and both expressive and receptive abilities are 
significantly lower than verbal intelligence. In addition, participants with the 
maternal uniparental disomy (mUPD) genetic subtype exhibit discrepant language 
functioning with higher expressive vs. receptive language abilities. Future 
research is needed to further examine language functioning in larger genetic 
subtype participant samples using additional descriptive measures. Further work 
should also delineate findings with respect to size of the paternal deletion 
(Type 1 and Type 2 deletions) and explore how overexpression of maternally 
expressed genes in the 15q11-13 region may relate to verbal ability.
LEARNING OUTCOMES: After reading this article, the reader will be able to: (1) 
summarize primary characteristics of Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS), (2) describe 
differentiating characteristics for the PWS genetic subtypes, (3) recall limited 
research regarding language functioning in PWS to date, (4) summarize potential 
genetic variations of language ability in Prader-Willi syndrome, and (5) 
summarize language ability in PWS with respect to adaptive functioning.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcomdis.2012.12.001
PMID: 23295077 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


268. Epilepsia. 2013 Mar;54(3):487-94. doi: 10.1111/epi.12067. Epub 2013 Jan 7.

Cognitive impairment and cortical reorganization in children with benign 
epilepsy with centrotemporal spikes.

Datta AN(1), Oser N, Bauder F, Maier O, Martin F, Ramelli GP, Steinlin M, Weber 
P, Penner IK.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pediatric Neurology and Developmental Medicine, University 
Children's Hospital, Basel, Switzerland. alexandre.datta@ukbb.ch

PURPOSE: Benign epilepsy with centrotemporal spikes (BECTS) is associated with 
mild cognitive deficits, especially language impairment. This study aimed to 
clarify whether children with BECTS with left- or right-hemispheric, or 
bilateral focus have specific neuropsychological language deficits when compared 
to healthy controls, whether these deficits correlate functionally with language 
network organization (typical vs. atypical), and whether cofactors such as 
duration, handedness, and medication have a relevant impact on language 
reorganization processes.
METHODS: Twenty-seven patients and 19 healthy controls were examined with 
several neuropsychological tests (German version of the Wechsler Intelligence 
Scale for Children [WISC-IV], Regensburger verbal fluency test [RWT], Corsiblock 
forward and backward and Hand-Dominanz-Test [HDT]) and with two language 
paradigms on functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI): silent reading of 
word-pairs and silent generation of simple sentences.
KEY FINDINGS: Although neuropsychological test results only differed by trend 
between BECTS patients and controls, language laterality indices (LIs) in fMRI 
were significantly lower in patients than in controls. In particular, the 
anterior language network with Broca's area and the supplementary motor area 
(SMA) revealed the lowest LIs and showed the most bilateral or right hemispheric 
activations in the sentence generation task. Medication and duration of epilepsy 
did not have any significant effect on language reorganization and patients' 
performances.
SIGNIFICANCE: Language reorganization in BECTS patients takes place in bilateral 
or right hemispheric language networks, with a strong focus in anterior language 
regions. These functional changes can be interpreted as important compensatory 
strategies of the central nervous system (CNS) to stabilize cognitive, 
especially language performance.

Wiley Periodicals, Inc. © 2013 International League Against Epilepsy.

DOI: 10.1111/epi.12067
PMID: 23297860 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


269. Med Phys. 2013 Jan;40(1):011715. doi: 10.1118/1.4771931.

Real-time automatic fiducial marker tracking in low contrast cine-MV images.

Lin WY(1), Lin SF, Yang SC, Liou SC, Nath R, Liu W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering, National Chung 
Cheng University, Taiwan.

PURPOSE: To develop a real-time automatic method for tracking implanted 
radiographic markers in low-contrast cine-MV patient images used in image-guided 
radiation therapy (IGRT).
METHODS: Intrafraction motion tracking using radiotherapy beam-line MV images 
have gained some attention recently in IGRT because no additional imaging dose 
is introduced. However, MV images have much lower contrast than kV images, 
therefore a robust and automatic algorithm for marker detection in MV images is 
a prerequisite. Previous marker detection methods are all based on template 
matching or its derivatives. Template matching needs to match object shape that 
changes significantly for different implantation and projection angle. While 
these methods require a large number of templates to cover various situations, 
they are often forced to use a smaller number of templates to reduce the 
computation load because their methods all require exhaustive search in the 
region of interest. The authors solve this problem by synergetic use of modern 
but well-tested computer vision and artificial intelligence techniques; 
specifically the authors detect implanted markers utilizing discriminant 
analysis for initialization and use mean-shift feature space analysis for 
sequential tracking. This novel approach avoids exhaustive search by exploiting 
the temporal correlation between consecutive frames and makes it possible to 
perform more sophisticated detection at the beginning to improve the accuracy, 
followed by ultrafast sequential tracking after the initialization. The method 
was evaluated and validated using 1149 cine-MV images from two prostate IGRT 
patients and compared with manual marker detection results from six researchers. 
The average of the manual detection results is considered as the ground truth 
for comparisons.
RESULTS: The average root-mean-square errors of our real-time automatic tracking 
method from the ground truth are 1.9 and 2.1 pixels for the two patients (0.26 
mm/pixel). The standard deviations of the results from the 6 researchers are 2.3 
and 2.6 pixels. The proposed framework takes about 128 ms to detect four markers 
in the first MV images and about 23 ms to track these markers in each of the 
subsequent images.
CONCLUSIONS: The unified framework for tracking of multiple markers presented 
here can achieve marker detection accuracy similar to manual detection even in 
low-contrast cine-MV images. It can cope with shape deformations of fiducial 
markers at different gantry angles. The fast processing speed reduces the image 
processing portion of the system latency, therefore can improve the performance 
of real-time motion compensation.

DOI: 10.1118/1.4771931
PMID: 23298085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


270. J Int Neuropsychol Soc. 2013 Feb;19(2):181-8. doi: 10.1017/S135561771200118X. 
Epub 2013 Jan 8.

Decision making after traumatic brain injury: a temporal discounting paradigm.

Wood RL(1), McHugh L.

Author information:
(1)Psychology Department, Swansea University, Swansea, Wales. 
r.l.wood@swansea.ac.uk

A temporal discounting paradigm was used to examine decision making for 
hypothetical monetary reward following traumatic brain injury (TBI). A 
case-control design compared individuals following moderate or severe TBI with a 
healthy control group matched for age and gender. The impact of intelligence, 
impulsivity, and mood on temporal discounting performance was examined. A 
within-subjects design for the TBI group determined the influence of a range of 
neuropsychological tests on temporal discounting performance. Both patients and 
controls demonstrated temporal discounting. However, the TBI group discounted 
more than controls, suggesting that their decision making was more impulsive, 
consistent with ratings on the impulsiveness questionnaire. Discounting 
performance was independent of neuropsychological measures of intelligence, 
memory, and executive function. There was no relationship between temporal 
discounting and ratings of everyday executive function made by patients' 
relatives. Low mood did not account for discounting performance. The results of 
this study suggest that temporal discounting may be a useful neuropsychological 
paradigm to assess decision making linked to monetary reward following TBI. 
Performance was relatively independent of intelligence, memory and standard 
tests of executive ability and may therefore assist when assessing a patient's 
mental capacity to manage their financial affairs.

DOI: 10.1017/S135561771200118X
PMID: 23298735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


271. J Int Neuropsychol Soc. 2013 Feb;19(2):189-97. doi: 10.1017/S1355617712001191. 
Epub 2013 Jan 8.

More than intelligence: distinct cognitive/behavioral clusters linked to 
adaptive dysfunction in children.

Papazoglou A(1), Jacobson LA, Zabel TA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuropsychology, Kennedy Krieger Institute, Baltimore, MD 
21231, USA.

Impairments in adaptive functioning are frequently associated with intellectual 
disability (ID); however, adaptive dysfunction can be seen in many individuals 
with a variety of neurological conditions without ID. The extent to which other 
variables may be associated with adaptive dysfunction is unclear. In a mixed 
clinical sample of children (n = 348) consecutively referred for 
neuropsychological evaluation, the majority were rated as showing weak adaptive 
skills (ABAS-II, >1 SD below the mean; 71%), with a substantial proportion 
evidencing frank impairment (>2 SD below the mean, 45%). We examined patterns of 
scores on measures of intelligence (WISC-IV) and behavioral/affective 
dysregulation (BRIEF and BASC-2). Using hierarchical cluster analysis, a four 
cluster model yielded the most appropriate fit and adaptive functioning was 
subsequently examined across clusters. As expected, adaptive functioning was 
most intact in the cluster characterized by average IQ and minimal behavioral 
dysregulation. Other clusters were marked by adaptive dysfunction and 
distinguished by sub-average intellectual functioning and varying 
behavioral/emotional dysregulation. In contrast to traditional views associating 
low IQ with adaptive dysfunction, adaptive impairment was comparable between the 
cluster characterized by low intelligence and the cluster with average 
intelligence but significant behavioral dysregulation. These data suggest that 
adaptive functioning should be considered across various cognitive/behavioral 
conditions.

DOI: 10.1017/S1355617712001191
PMID: 23298775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


272. Twin Res Hum Genet. 2013 Apr;16(2):554-9. doi: 10.1017/thg.2012.151. Epub 2013 
Jan 9.

A behavior genetic analysis of trait emotional intelligence and alexithymia: a 
replication.

Baughman HM(1), Schermer JA, Veselka L, Harris J, Vernon PA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, 
Canada.

This replication study examines relations between alexithymia and trait 
emotional intelligence (trait EI) at the phenotypic, genetic, and environmental 
levels. A sample of 1,444 same-sex twin pairs (850 MZ pairs and 594 DZ pairs) 
completed the Toronto Alexithymia Scale-20. A subset of 494 same-sex twin pairs 
(287 MZ pairs and 207 DZ pairs) had earlier completed the Trait Emotional 
Intelligence Questionnaire. Individual differences in alexithymia were 
attributable to genetic, non-shared environmental, and shared environmental 
factors. All but one of the facets of alexithymia were negatively and 
significantly correlated with the factors of trait EI, and these phenotypic 
correlations were entirely attributable to correlated genetic and correlated 
non-shared environmental factors. These bivariate results provide a valuable 
replication of those of Baughman et al. (Twin Research and Human Genetics, Vol. 
14, 2011, pp. 539-543), which was conducted with substantially smaller samples 
of twins.

DOI: 10.1017/thg.2012.151
PMID: 23298794 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


273. PLoS One. 2013;8(1):e51924. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0051924. Epub 2013 Jan 2.

Aberrant whole-brain functional connectivity and intelligence structure in 
children with primary nocturnal enuresis.

Yu B(1), Sun H, Ma H, Peng M, Kong F, Meng F, Liu N, Guo Q.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Shengjing Hospital of China Medical University, 
Shenyang, China.

AIM: To assess the potential relationship between intelligence structure 
abnormalities and whole-brain functional connectivity in children with primary 
nocturnal enuresis (PNE) with resting-state functional magnetic resonance 
imaging (fMRI) to provide insights into the association between these two 
seemingly unrelated conditions.
METHODS: Intelligence testing and fMRI data were obtained from 133 right-handed 
children, including 67 PNE children (M/F, 39:28; age, 10.5 ± 1.2 y) and 66 
age-matched healthy controls (M/F, 37:29; age, 10.1 ± 1.1 y). All intelligence 
tests were performed using the China-Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children 
(C-WISC). Each subject's full intelligence quotient (FIQ), verbal IQ (VIQ), 
performance IQ (PIQ), and memory/caution (M/C) factor was measured and recorded. 
Resting state fMRI scans were performed on a 3.0-T MR scanner and post-processed 
using REST software. Comparisons of z-score correlation coefficients between 
distinct cerebral regions were used to identify altered functional connectivity 
in PNE children.
RESULTS: The PNE group had normal FIQ, VIQ, and PIQ values, indicating no 
significant variation from the control group. However, the M/C factor was 
significantly lower in the PNE group. Compared to the control group, PNE 
children exhibited overall lower levels of functional connectivity that were 
most apparent in the cerebello-thalamo-frontal pathway. The M/C factor 
significantly correlated with z-scores representing connectivity between 
Cerebellum_Crus1_L and Frontal_Mid_R.
CONCLUSION: PNE children exhibit intelligence structure imbalance and attention 
deficits. Our findings suggest that cerebello-thalamo-frontal circuit 
abnormalities are likely to be involved in the onset and progression of 
attention impairment in PNE children.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0051924
PMCID: PMC3534686
PMID: 23300958 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


274. Am J Intellect Dev Disabil. 2013 Jan;118(1):44-54. doi: 
10.1352/1944-7558-118.1.44.

Comparison of the Leiter International Performance Scale-Revised and the 
Stanford-Binet Intelligence Scales, 5th Edition, in children with autism 
spectrum disorders.

Grondhuis SN(1), Mulick JA.

Author information:
(1)The Ohio State University, Nisonger Center, Columbus, OH 43210, USA. 
sabrina.grondhuis@gmail.com

A review of hospital records was conducted for children evaluated for autism 
spectrum disorders who completed both the Leiter International Performance 
Scale-Revised (Leiter-R) and Stanford-Binet Intelligence Scales, 5th Edition 
(SB5). Participants were between 3 and 12 years of age. Diagnoses were autistic 
disorder (n  =  26, 55%) and pervasive developmental disorder-not otherwise 
specified (n  =  21, 45%). Analysis showed that the full sample received 
significantly higher scores on the Leiter-R than SB5 (mean discrepancy of 20.91 
points), specific diagnosis was not a significant factor, and younger children 
had a larger discrepancy between tests. These analyses strongly suggest that the 
Leiter-R and the SB5 may not be equivalent measures of intellectual functioning 
in children with autism spectrum disorders, and that use of one or the other 
exclusively could lead to misclassification of intellectual capacity.

DOI: 10.1352/1944-7558-118.1.44
PMID: 23301902 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


275. Age Ageing. 2013 May;42(3):306-11. doi: 10.1093/ageing/afs193. Epub 2013 Jan 9.

Smoking, hypercholesterolaemia and hypertension as risk factors for cognitive 
impairment in older adults.

Okusaga O(1), Stewart MC, Butcher I, Deary I, Fowkes FG, Price JF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, The University of Texas 
Health Science Center at Houston, Houston, TX, USA. 
Olaoluwa.O.Okusaga@uth.tmc.edu

BACKGROUND: the prevalence of all types of cognitive impairment, including 
dementia, is increasing but knowledge of aetiological factors is still evolving.
OBJECTIVE: this study aimed to evaluate the association between cardiovascular 
risk factors and cognitive function in older persons.
DESIGN, SETTING AND SUBJECTS: a population-based cohort design involving 2,312 
men and women (aged 50-75) enrolled in the University of Edinburgh Aspirin for 
Asymptomatic Atherosclerosis trial.
METHODS: cognitive tests included the Mill Hill Vocabulary Scale, auditory 
verbal learning test (AVLT), digit symbol test, verbal fluency test (VFT), 
Raven's Progressive Matrices and the trail making test. A 'g' score (measure of 
general intelligence) was computed for each subject. Regression analysis was 
used to evaluate the association between relevant variables.
RESULTS: higher diastolic BP was negatively associated with AVLT (β = -0.153, P 
< 0.01), and with an estimated decline on AVLT (β = -0.125, P < 0.01). Smoking 
was negatively associated with all the cognitive variables except VFT. The total 
cholesterol level was not associated with cognitive function or estimated 
decline.
CONCLUSIONS: smoking and elevated blood pressure may be risk factors for 
cognitive decline, and thus potential targets for preventive and therapeutic 
interventions.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/afs193
PMID: 23302603 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


276. Int J Geriatr Psychiatry. 2013 Nov;28(11):1125-30. doi: 10.1002/gps.3929. Epub 
2013 Jan 10.

Influence of gender and age on cognitive inhibition in late-onset depression: a 
case-control study.

Richard-Devantoy S(1), Deguigne F, Annweiler C, Letourneau G, Beauchet O.

Author information:
(1)McGill University, Department of Psychiatry and Douglas Mental Health 
University Institute McGill Group for Suicide Studies, Montréal, QC, Canada; 
Laboratoire de Psychologie des Pays de la Loire, UPRES EA 4638, Université 
d'Angers, Angers, France.

OBJECTIVE: To compare cognitive inhibition performance between people with 
early-onset (EOD) or late-onset depression (LOD) and controls, and between women 
and men with LOD.
METHODS: On the basis of a case-control design, global executive performance 
(Frontal Assessment Battery); verbal (Hayling), attention (Stroop), and motor 
(Go/No-Go) components of cognitive inhibition; mental shifting (Trail Making 
Test parts A and B); and updating in working memory (Wechsler Adult Intelligence 
Scale) were assessed in 40 participants (10 depressed women with LOD (i.e., ≥60 
years old), 10 depressed women with EOD (i.e., <60 years old), 10 healthy women 
and 10 depressed men with LOD (i.e., ≥60 years old)).
RESULTS: Older depressed women, irrespective of age of depression onset, had 
greater cognitive inhibition impairments (attention and verbal component) 
compared with healthy women. LOD was significantly associated with the attention 
component of cognitive inhibition impairment, unlike EOD (p = 0.026). No 
executive differences were found regarding age of first-onset depression in 
older depressed women, and between women and men with LOD.
CONCLUSION: Cognitive inhibition impairment, and more specifically its attention 
component, was the main characteristic of depression in the studied sample of 
older adults, independently of gender and age of depression onset. It is 
essential to perform similar studies in both genders in view of future 
tailor-made therapeutic modalities.

Copyright © 2013 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/gps.3929
PMID: 23303735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


277. J Psychosoc Oncol. 2013;31(1):51-64. doi: 10.1080/07347332.2012.703770.

Exploring the relationship between emotional intelligence and health-related 
quality of life in patients with cancer.

Rey L(1), Extremera N, Trillo L.

Author information:
(1)University of Málaga, Málaga, Spain. lrey@uma.es

This study examined the association between emotional intelligence (EI), 
personality, and its relation to health-related quality of life in 62 patients 
with cancer. Specially, the predictive and incremental validity of EI for 
predicting health-related quality of life beyond the level attributable to 
personality was examined. Emotional intelligence showed unique and significant 
variance in prediction of different health-related quality of life dimensions. 
These findings provide preliminary evidences that EI abilities are useful 
additions in the field of psycho-oncology. The potential value of including EI 
programs to complement current psychoeducational approaches aimed at preserving 
or improving cancer patient health-related quality of life is discussed.

DOI: 10.1080/07347332.2012.703770
PMID: 23311971 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


278. J Pediatr. 2013 Jun;162(6):1112-9. doi: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2012.11.078. Epub 2013 
Jan 11.

Sustained developmental effects of the infant behavioral assessment and 
intervention program in very low birth weight infants at 5.5 years corrected 
age.

Van Hus JW(1), Jeukens-Visser M, Koldewijn K, Geldof CJ, Kok JH, Nollet F, Van 
Wassenaer-Leemhuis AG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rehabilitation, Academic Medical Center, University of 
Amsterdam, and Department of Neonatology, Emma's Children's Hospital, Amsterdam, 
The Netherlands. J.W.vanhus@amc.uva.nl

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the effect of the Infant Behavioral Assessment and 
Intervention Program (IBAIP) in very low birth weight (VLBW) infants on 
cognitive, neuromotor, and behavioral development at 5.5 years corrected age 
(CA).
STUDY DESIGN: In a randomized controlled trial, 86 VLBW infants received post 
discharge IBAIP intervention until 6 months CA, and 90 VLBW infants received 
standard care. At 5.5 years CA, cognitive and motor development, and 
visual-motor integration were assessed with the Wechsler Preschool and Primary 
Scale of Intelligence, third Dutch version, the Movement Assessment Battery for 
Children, second edition, and the Developmental Test of Visual Motor 
Integration. Neurologic conditions were assessed with the neurologic examination 
according to Touwen, and behavior with the Strengths and Difficulties 
Questionnaire.
RESULTS: At 5.5 years CA, 69 children in the intervention and 67 children in the 
control group participated (response rate 77.3%). Verbal and performance 
IQ-scores<85 occurred significantly less often in the intervention than in the 
control group (17.9% vs 33.3%, P=.041, and 7.5% vs 21.2%, P=.023, respectively). 
However, after adjustment for differences, only the OR for performance IQ was 
significant: 0.24, 95% CI: 0.06-0.95. Adjusted mean scores on Wechsler Preschool 
and Primary Scale of Intelligence, third version subtasks block design and 
vocabulary, the Movement Assessment Battery for Children, second edition 
component aiming and catching, and the Developmental Test of Visual Motor 
Integration were significantly better in the intervention group. No intervention 
effect was found on the Strengths and Difficulties Questionnaire.
CONCLUSION: The IBAIP leads, 5 years after the early neurobehavioral 
intervention, to improvements on performance IQ, ball skills, and visual-motor 
integration at 5.5 years CA.

Copyright © 2013 Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2012.11.078
PMID: 23312690 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


279. Biosystems. 2013 Jun;112(3):189-95. doi: 10.1016/j.biosystems.2012.11.003. Epub 
2013 Jan 8.

Remarks on neurocybernetics and its links to computing science. To the memory of 
Prof. Luigi M. Ricciardi.

Moreno-Díaz R(1), Moreno-Díaz A.

Author information:
(1)Instituto Universitario de Ciencias y Tecnologías Cibernéticas, Parque 
Científico-Tecnológico, Universidad de Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, 35017 Las 
Palmas de G.C., Spain.

This paper explores the origins and content of neurocybernetics and its links to 
artificial intelligence, computer science and knowledge engineering. Starting 
with three remarkable pieces of work, we center attention on a number of events 
that initiated and developed basic topics that are still nowadays a matter of 
research and inquire, from goal directed activity theories to circular causality 
and to reverberations and learning. Within this context, we pay tribute to the 
memory of Prof. Ricciardi documenting the importance of his contributions in the 
mathematics of brain, neural nets and neurophysiological models, computational 
simulations and techniques.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biosystems.2012.11.003
PMID: 23313513 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


280. Biosystems. 2013 Jun;112(3):183-8. doi: 10.1016/j.biosystems.2013.01.002. Epub 
2013 Jan 11.

A personal retrospective on the second half of the 20th century.

Nicholas Leibovic K(1).

Author information:
(1)State University of New York at Buffalo, NY, USA. bphknl@buffalo.edu

During the Second World War scientists and engineers were involved as never 
before in all technical phases of the war effort. It included intelligence, 
logistics and large scale automated computation. Much of this required team work 
which led to the adoption of interdisciplinary perspectives and found expression 
after the war in new fields of enquiry such as cybernetics, biophysics and 
artificial intelligence. While Europe was recovering from its devastation, the 
United States entered an unprecedented age of prosperity beginning in the 1940s 
and 50s. The political and budgetary environment was favorable for scientific 
research and it was felt in Europe as well as the U.S.A. I discuss some of these 
conditions and the figures associated with the work that became the foundation 
for advances throughout the second half of the 20th century and conclude with a 
few observations on quantitative neuroscience and the problem of representation.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biosystems.2013.01.002
PMID: 23313751 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


281. Alzheimer Dis Assoc Disord. 2013 Oct-Dec;27(4):324-9. doi: 
10.1097/WAD.0b013e31827bdc8c.

TeLPI performance in subjects with mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer 
disease: a validation study.

Alves L(1), Simões MR, Martins C, Freitas S, Santana I.

Author information:
(1)*Faculty of Psychology and Educational Sciences †Psychological Assessment 
Lab, CINEICC, Faculty of Psychology and Educational Sciences ‡Department of 
Languages, Literatures and Cultures, Center of General and Applied Linguistics 
§Department of Neurology, Coimbra University Hospital and Faculty of Medicine, 
University of Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal.

APA guidelines for the evaluation of age-related cognitive decline and dementia 
emphasize the need for baseline (premorbid) data against which current 
performance can be compared. As this information rarely exists, clinicians must 
rely on instruments especially designed for estimation of premorbid abilities. 
No such instrument was available in Portugal until the development of the TeLPI, 
an irregular words oral reading test. This study aims to examine TeLPI's 
validity as a measure of premorbid ability in the spectrum of aging cognitive 
decline, from mild cognitive impairment (MCI) to moderate Alzheimer disease 
(AD), by the analysis of its stability in normal versus impaired samples. A 
total of 104 patients, classified into 2 clinical groups, MCI (n=53) and 
probable mild to moderate AD (n=51), were compared with a group of cognitively 
healthy controls (C_MCI: n=53; C_AD: n=51) and matched for sex, age, education, 
and residence. As expected, the Mini-Mental State Examination and Montreal 
Cognitive Assessment results were significantly different between the groups 
(AD<MCI<controls), reflecting the severity of cognitive impairment. TeLPI median 
scores of controls, MCI, and probable AD patients were comparable after 
correcting for years of education, revealing no significant effect of cognitive 
impairment on TeLPI performance, and suggesting its validity for estimating 
premorbid intelligence in subjects with cognitive decline and dementia.

DOI: 10.1097/WAD.0b013e31827bdc8c
PMID: 23314065 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


282. J Public Health (Oxf). 2013 Dec;35(4):533-40. doi: 10.1093/pubmed/fds106. Epub 
2013 Jan 11.

Social inequalities in health expectancy and the contribution of mortality and 
morbidity: the case of Irish Travellers.

Abdalla S(1), Kelleher C, Quirke B, Daly L; All-Ireland Traveller Health Study 
team.

Collaborators: Cronin F, Drummond A, Fitzpatrick P, Frazier K, Hamid NA, Kelly 
C, Kilroe J, Lotya J, McGorrian C, Moore RG, Murnane S, Carthaigh RN, O'Mahony 
D, O'Shea B, Staines A, Staines D, Sweeney MR, Turner J, Ward A, Whelan J.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, Physiotherapy and Population Science, University 
College Dublin, Woodview House, Belfield, Dublin 4, Republic of Ireland.

BACKGROUND: The health expectancy of Irish Travellers, a disadvantaged 
indigenous minority group in Ireland has not been previously estimated. This 
study aimed to examine health expectancy inequalities between Irish Travellers 
and the general population.
METHODS: We used Sullivan's life table method to construct healthy life 
expectancy (HLE) and disability-free life expectancy (DFLE). The All-Ireland 
Traveller Health Study provided Irish Traveller population's mortality and 
health data. Vital registration, census and comparable national survey health 
data were used for the general population. We calculated the absolute and 
relative life expectancy, HLE and DFLE gaps between Irish Travellers and the 
general population and decomposed the HLE and DFLE gaps into mortality and 
morbidity contributions.
RESULTS: Irish Travellers had consistently lower HLE and DFLE than the general 
population. The health expectancy gap displayed notable age and gender 
variations and was wider than the life expectancy gap. Mortality contributed 
more than morbidity to the health expectancy gap in men but not in women.
CONCLUSIONS: This study illustrated the true extent of health inequalities 
experienced by an indigenous minority in Europe, clarifying the importance of 
reducing the burden of non-fatal disabling conditions for addressing these 
inequalities. The health expectancy measure used has application for other 
similar indigenous minorities elsewhere.

DOI: 10.1093/pubmed/fds106
PMID: 23315684 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


283. Genet Mol Res. 2013 Jan 7;12(3):2809-15. doi: 10.4238/2013.January.7.2.

Multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification detection of an unknown large 
deletion of the CREB-binding protein gene in a patient with Rubinstein-Taybi 
syndrome.

Calì F(1), Failla P, Chiavetta V, Ragalmuto A, Ruggeri G, Schinocca P, Schepis 
C, Romano V, Romano C.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Genetics, IRCCS Associazione Oasi Maria SS, Troina, 
Italy.

Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome is a rare autosomal dominant congenital disorder 
characterized by postnatal growth retardation, psychomotor developmental delay, 
skeletal anomalies, peculiar facial morphology, and tumorigenesis. Mutations in 
the gene encoding the cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB, also known as 
CREBBP or CBP) on chromosome 16p13.3 have been identified. In addition, some 
patients with low intelligence quotients and autistic features bear large 
deletions. Based on these observations, we used multiplex ligation-dependent 
probe amplification to search for large deletions affecting the CREBBP gene in a 
Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome patient. We identified a novel heterozygote deletion 
removing five exons (exons 17-21), encoding the histone acetyltransferase 
domain. We propose the use of multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification 
as a fast, accurate and cheap test for detecting large deletions in the CREBBP 
gene in the sub-group of Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome patients with low 
intelligence quotients and autistic features.

DOI: 10.4238/2013.January.7.2
PMID: 23315884 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


284. BMC Pediatr. 2013 Jan 15;13:8. doi: 10.1186/1471-2431-13-8.

Hospitalisation with otitis media in early childhood and cognitive function in 
young adult life: a prevalence study among Danish conscripts.

Mortensen M(1), Nielsen RB, Fisker N, Nørgaard M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology, Aarhus University Hospital, Olof Palmes 
Allé 43-45, Aarhus N, Denmark. mm@dce.au.dk

BACKGROUND: Otitis media (OM) is a very common condition in children and occurs 
during years that are critical to the development of learning, literacy, and 
math skills. Therefore, among a large cohort of Danish conscripts, we aimed to 
examine the association between hospitalisation with OM in early childhood and 
cognitive function and educational level in early adulthood.
METHODS: We conducted a population-based prevalence study using linked data from 
healthcare databases and conscription records of Danish men born between 1977 
and 1983. We identified all hospitalisations with OM before 8 years of age. 
Cognitive function was measured by the Boerge Prien validated group intelligence 
test (Danish Børge Prien Prøve, BPP). We adjusted for potential confounders with 
and without stratification by hearing impairment. Furthermore, we examined the 
association between hospitalisation with OM and the prevalence of having 
achieved a General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE), stratified by 
quartiles of BPP scores.
RESULTS: Of the 18 412 eligible conscripts aged 18-25 years, 1000 (5.5%) had 
been hospitalised with OM before age 8. Compared with conscripts without such a 
record, the adjusted prevalence ratio (PR) for a BPP score in the bottom 
quartile was 1.20 (95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.09-1.33). There was no major 
difference in the proportion of men with a GCSE and those without among those 
hospitalised with OM in early childhood. For men in the bottom and upper 
quartiles of BPP scores, the PRs for early childhood hospitalisation with OM 
were 0.89 (95% CI: 0.59-1.33) and 0.96 (95% CI, 0.88-1.05), respectively. Among 
men with severe hearing impairment, the proportion with a BPP score in the 
bottom quartile did not differ between those with and without an OM 
hospitalisation [PR = 1.01 (95% CI: 0.78-1.34)].
CONCLUSIONS: Overall, we found that hospitalisation with OM in early childhood 
was associated with a slightly lower cognitive function in early adulthood. 
Hospitalisation for OM did not seem to influence the prevalence of GSCE when 
level of BPP was taken into account.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2431-13-8
PMCID: PMC3553012
PMID: 23320411 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. Br J Psychol. 2013 Feb;104(1):97-118. doi: 10.1111/j.2044-8295.2012.02107.x. 
Epub 2012 Apr 10.

Improving insight and non-insight problem solving with brief interventions.

Wen MC(1), Butler LT, Koutstaal W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Reading, UK. mingching.wen@gmail.com

Developing brief training interventions that benefit different forms of problem 
solving is challenging. In earlier research, Chrysikou (2006) showed that 
engaging in a task requiring generation of alternative uses of common objects 
improved subsequent insight problem solving. These benefits were attributed to a 
form of implicit transfer of processing involving enhanced construction of 
impromptu, on-the-spot or 'ad hoc' goal-directed categorizations of the problem 
elements. Following this, it is predicted that the alternative uses exercise 
should benefit abilities that govern goal-directed behaviour, such as fluid 
intelligence and executive functions. Similarly, an indirect intervention - 
self-affirmation (SA) - that has been shown to enhance cognitive and executive 
performance after self-regulation challenge and when under stereotype threat, 
may also increase adaptive goal-directed thinking and likewise should bolster 
problem-solving performance. In Experiment 1, brief single-session 
interventions, involving either alternative uses generation or SA, significantly 
enhanced both subsequent insight and visual-spatial fluid reasoning problem 
solving. In Experiment 2, we replicated the finding of benefits of both 
alternative uses generation and SA on subsequent insight problem-solving 
performance, and demonstrated that the underlying mechanism likely involves 
improved executive functioning. Even brief cognitive- and social-psychological 
interventions may substantially bolster different types of problem solving and 
may exert largely similar facilitatory effects on goal-directed behaviours.

© 2012 The British Psychological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/j.2044-8295.2012.02107.x
PMID: 23320445 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


286. Br J Psychol. 2013 Feb;104(1):130-9. doi: 10.1111/j.2044-8295.2012.02106.x. Epub 
2012 Mar 27.

The role of general cognitive ability in moderating the relation of adverse life 
events to emotional and behavioural problems.

Flouri E(1), Mavroveli S, Panourgia C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology and Human Development, Institute of Education, 
University of London, UK. e.flouri@ioe.ac.uk

Previous studies have established the role of various measures of cognitive 
functioning in dampening the association between adverse life events ('life 
stress') and adolescents' emotional and behavioural problems. However, it is not 
yet clear if general cognitive ability ('intelligence') is a protective factor. 
In this study of 1,175 10- to 19-year-olds in five secondary schools in England, 
we explored this issue. We found that even after controlling for sex, age, 
family poverty, and special educational needs, the association of life stress 
with emotional, hyperactivity, and conduct problems was significant. General 
cognitive ability moderated the association between life stress and conduct 
problems; among adolescents with higher than average general cognitive ability, 
the association between life stress and conduct problems was non-significant.

© 2012 The British Psychological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/j.2044-8295.2012.02106.x
PMID: 23320447 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


287. BMC Psychiatry. 2013 Jan 15;13:27. doi: 10.1186/1471-244X-13-27.

Plasma brain-derived neurotrophic factor levels, learning capacity and cognition 
in patients with first episode psychosis.

Ruiz de Azua S(1), Matute C, Stertz L, Mosquera F, Palomino A, de la Rosa I, 
Barbeito S, Vega P, Kapczinski F, González-Pinto A.

Author information:
(1)CIBERSAM (Biomedical Research Center in Mental Health Net), University 
Hospital of Alava, University of the Basque Country, Vitoria, Spain.

BACKGROUND: Cognitive impairments are seen in first psychotic episode (FEP) 
patients. The neurobiological underpinnings that might underlie these changes 
remain unknown. The aim of this study is to investigate whether Brain Derived 
Neurotrophic Factor (BDNF) levels are associated with cognitive impairment in 
FEP patients compared with healthy controls.
METHODS: 45 FEP patients and 45 healthy controls matched by age, gender and 
educational level were selected from the Basque Country area of Spain. Plasma 
BDNF levels were assessed in healthy controls and in patients. A battery of 
cognitive tests was applied to both groups, with the patients being assessed at 
6 months after the acute episode and only in those with a clinical response to 
treatment.
RESULTS: Plasma BDNF levels were altered in patients compared with the control 
group. In FEP patients, we observed a positive association between BDNF levels 
at six months and five cognitive domains (learning ability, immediate and 
delayed memory, abstract thinking and processing speed) which persisted after 
controlling for medications prescribed, drug use, intelligence quotient (IQ) and 
negative symptoms. In the healthy control group, BDNF levels were not associated 
with cognitive test scores.
CONCLUSION: Our results suggest that BDNF is associated with the cognitive 
impairment seen after a FEP. Further investigations of the role of this 
neurotrophin in the symptoms associated with psychosis onset are warranted.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-244X-13-27
PMCID: PMC3567944
PMID: 23320462 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


288. Dev Med Child Neurol. 2013 Feb;55(2):178-184. doi: 10.1111/dmcn.12018.

Perinatal risk factors for neurocognitive impairments in preschool children born 
very preterm.

Potharst ES(1)(2)(3), VAN Wassenaer-Leemhuis AG(2), Houtzager BA(4), Livesey 
D(5), Kok JH(2), Last BF(1)(3), Oosterlaan J(6).

Author information:
(1) Psychosocial Department, Emma's Children's Hospital Academic Medical Centre, 
Amsterdam.
(2) Department of Neonatology, Emma's Children's Hospital Academic Medical 
Centre, Amsterdam.
(3) Department of Developmental Psychology and EMGO Institute for Health and 
Care Research, VU University Amsterdam, Amsterdam.
(4) Medical Psychology, Deventer Hospital, Deventer, the Netherlands.
(5) School of Psychology, The University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(6) Department of Clinical Neuropsychology, VU University Amsterdam, Amsterdam, 
the Netherlands.

Comment in
    Dev Med Child Neurol. 2013 Feb;55(2):105-6.

AIM: This study aimed to compare a broad array of neurocognitive functions 
(processing speed, aspects of attention, executive functioning, visual-motor 
coordination, and both face and emotion recognition) in very preterm and 
term-born children and to identify perinatal risk factors for neurocognitive 
dysfunctions.
METHOD: Children who were born very preterm (n=102; 46 males, 56 females), 
defined as a gestational age of less than 30 weeks and/or birthweight under 1000 
g, and a comparison group of term-born children (n=95; 40 males, 55 females) 
were assessed at age 5 with the Wechsler Preschool and Primary Scale of 
Intelligence, Stop Signal Task, several tasks of the Amsterdam 
Neuropsychological Tasks, and a Digit Span task.
RESULTS: When sociodemographic characteristics were taken into account, very 
preterm children scored worse than term-born children on all neurocognitive 
functions, except on tasks measuring inhibition and sustained attention, for 
which results were inconclusive. Effect sizes for group effects were small to 
medium (r(2) varying between 0.02 and 0.07). Principal component isolated four 
factors: visual-motor coordination, face/emotion recognition, reaction 
time/attention, and accuracy/attention. When sociodemographic and child 
characteristics at birth were accounted for, bronchopulmonary dysplasia was 
significantly negatively associated with all four components and also with 
working memory.
INTERPRETATION: Very preterm children are at risk for problems on a broad array 
of neurocognitive functions. Bronchopulmonary dysplasia is an independent risk 
factor for impaired neurocognitive functioning.

© The Authors. Developmental Medicine & Child Neurology © 2012 Mac Keith Press.

DOI: 10.1111/dmcn.12018
PMID: 23320575 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


289. Eur J Neurol. 2013 Jun;20(6):899-906, e76-7. doi: 10.1111/ene.12083. Epub 2013 
Jan 16.

Obesity and impaired cognitive functioning in the elderly: a population-based 
cross-sectional study (NEDICES).

Benito-León J(1), Mitchell AJ, Hernández-Gallego J, Bermejo-Pareja F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University Hospital '12 de Octubre', Madrid, Spain. 
jbenitol@meditex.es

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Studies of high body mass index (BMI) and cognition in 
the elderly have shown conflicting results. While some studies have shown a 
detrimental effect of high BMI on cognitive function, others have observed 
beneficial effects on cognition. Our aim was to assess cognitive function in a 
large population-based sample of overweight (BMI 25-29.9 kg/m(2) ) and obese 
(BMI ≥ 30 kg/m(2) ) community-dwelling elderly participants compared with their 
counterparts with BMI < 25 kg/m(2) (i.e. controls) living in the same 
population.
METHODS: One-thousand nine-hundred and forty-nine population-dwelling 
participants aged ≥ 65 years in central Spain [the Neurological Diseases in 
Central Spain study (NEDICES)] underwent a neuropsychological assessment, 
including tests of global cognitive performance [measured with a 37-item version 
of the Mini-Mental State Examination (37-MMSE)], psychomotor speed, verbal 
fluency, memory and pre-morbid intelligence.
RESULTS: There were 507 with BMI < 25 kg/m(2) , 850 overweight and 592 obese 
participants. In regression analyses that adjusted for age, gender, educational 
category, intake of medications that potentially affect cognition function, 
diabetes mellitus, hypertension, dementia, ever smoker, ever drinker and waist 
circumference, we found that obese/overweight status was associated with the 
lowest quartiles of the 37-MMSE, Trail Making Test-A (number of errors; indeed 
more errors), verbal fluency, delayed free recall, immediate logical memory and 
pre-morbid intelligence.
CONCLUSIONS: In this large population sample, overweight and obese participants 
performed poorer on formal neuropsychological tests than their counterparts with 
BMI < 25 kg/m(2) . These results support the hypothesis of a detrimental effect 
of high BMI on impaired cognition in the elderly.

© 2013 The Author(s) European Journal of Neurology © 2013 EFNS.

DOI: 10.1111/ene.12083
PMID: 23323838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


290. Int J Eat Disord. 2013 Mar;46(2):127-39. doi: 10.1002/eat.22096. Epub 2013 Jan 
17.

Executive functioning and behavioral impulsivity of young women who binge eat.

Kelly NR(1), Bulik CM, Mazzeo SE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, VA, 
USA. nrkelly@vcu.edu

OBJECTIVE: To examine the link between binge eating, executive functioning, and 
behavioral impulsivity.
METHOD: Fifty women who reported engaging in weekly binge eating in the absence 
of regular compensatory behaviors and 66 women with no history of binge eating 
completed several self-report questionnaires and a brief neuropsychological 
battery, including the Wisconsin Card Sorting Task and Conner's Continuous 
Performance Task.
RESULTS: Hierarchical regression analyses revealed that groups did not differ in 
executive functioning after controlling for depression, anxiety, body mass, 
general intelligence, and psychotropic medication use. Correlation analyses 
suggest that individuals who endorse more frequent binge eating might have 
greater difficulties thinking flexibly or shifting attention. Individuals who 
binge eats are also more likely to behave impulsively, but only for emotional 
reasons.
DISCUSSION: Although this study is unable to determine whether these cognitive 
and behavioral factors precede or follow binge-eating episodes, outcomes have 
implications for treatment and prevention.

Copyright © 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/eat.22096
PMID: 23325731 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


291. J Endocrinol. 2013 Mar 15;217(1):21-9. doi: 10.1530/JOE-12-0410. Print 2013 Apr.

Maternal marginal iodine deficiency affects the expression of relative proteins 
during brain development in rat offspring.

Liu Y(1), Zhang L, Li J, Shan Z, Teng W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, The Liaoning Provincial Key 
Laboratory of Endocrine Diseases, The First Hospital of China Medical 
University, No.155 Nanjing Bei Street, Hepig District, Shenyang 110001, People's 
Republic of China.

Marginal iodine deficiency is a major health problem in pregnant women, but its 
impact on nerve and intelligence development in offspring has been rarely 
reported. Our study aimed to investigate the effects of maternal marginal iodine 
deficiency on nerve and cognitive development in offspring and the related 
mechanisms. Marginal iodine-deficient rats were given 3  μg iodine per day, 
while normal control rats were given 4  μg iodine daily. Western blot was used 
to detect the amounts of brain-derived neurotropic factor (BDNF) and early 
growth response protein 1 (EGR1) in the hippocampus of each group. 
Immunohistochemistry was used to measure c-jun and c-fos expression in the 
hippocampal CA1 region. Finally, the water maze method was used to measure 
spatial performance. Free thyroxine (FT₄) levels in marginal iodine-deficient 
rats decreased by about 30%. Seven days after birth, EGR1 and BDNF protein 
levels significantly decreased in the hippocampus of marginal iodine deficiency 
rats compared with the normal control group. In addition, c-jun and c-fos 
expression in the hippocampus of 40-day-old rats was decreased in marginal 
iodine-deficient rats, compared with control. The spatial learning and memory 
ability of 40-day-old marginal iodine-deficient rats had a downward trend 
compared with the normal control group. FT₄ significantly decreased after 
pregnancy in rats with marginal iodine deficiency, affecting the expression of 
related proteins in the brain of offspring.

DOI: 10.1530/JOE-12-0410
PMID: 23328070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


292. Psychiatry Clin Neurosci. 2013 Jan;67(1):20-7. doi: 10.1111/pcn.12005.

Broader autistic phenotype in parents of children with autism: Autism Spectrum 
Quotient-Turkish version.

Kose S(1), Bora E, Erermiş S, Özbaran B, Bildik T, Aydın C.

Author information:
(1)Child and Adolescent Psychiatry Department, Ege University School of 
Medicine, Izmir, Turkey. sezengokcen@hotmail.com

AIMS: The Autism Spectrum Quotient (AQ) is a self-assessment screening 
instrument for measuring the degree to which an individual of normal 
intelligence shows autistic traits. Genetic factors could be responsible for the 
relatives of individuals with autism exhibiting higher than normal rates of 
autism-related impairments, referred to as the 'broader autism phenotype' (BAP). 
The aim of this study was to test whether there is a difference between the 
parents of autistic and those of typically developing children (TDC) on AQ 
scores in a Turkish sample.
METHOD: The AQ total and subscale scores of the 100 parents (47 fathers, 53 
mothers) of children with autistic disorder (AD) were compared with the 100 
parents (48 fathers, 52 mothers) of TDC.
RESULTS: The parents of AD children scored significantly higher than the TDC 
parents on total AQ score, and two of five subscale scores; social skills, and 
communication. The other three subscales (attention to detail, attention 
switching, imagination) did not differentiate groups. There was no significant 
difference between mothers and fathers on any AQ scores, neither in the AD nor 
TDC group. The group × gender interaction was not significant on the total or 
the five subscale scores of AQ.
CONCLUSION: Social skill and communication subscales differentiate AD parents 
more successfully, and are more sensitive, as reported in other studies. The 
present findings confirm that social skill and communication impairments in 
parents of children with autism spectrum disorders are indicators of BAP.

© 2013 The Authors. Psychiatry and Clinical Neurosciences © 2013 Japanese 
Society of Psychiatry and Neurology.

DOI: 10.1111/pcn.12005
PMID: 23331285 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


293. J Int Neuropsychol Soc. 2013 Mar;19(3):314-23. doi: 10.1017/S1355617712001397. 
Epub 2013 Jan 21.

Working memory and intelligence are associated with victoria symptom validity 
test hard item performance in patients with intractable epilepsy.

Keary TA(1), Frazier TW, Belzile CJ, Chapin JS, Naugle RI, Najm IM, Busch RM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Psychology, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, Ohio 
44195, USA.

Loring et al. (Journal of clinical and experimental neuropsychology, 
2005:27;610–617) observed relationships between VSVT hard item performance and 
IQ and memory indices in epilepsy surgical candidates, with a potential confound 
of low FSIQ on VSVT performance. The present study replicated the Loring et al. 
study in a larger sample and extended their findings by examining the 
relationships among VSVT performance, FSIQ, and working memory. A total of 404 
patients with medically intractable epilepsy completed a comprehensive 
neuropsychological assessment. Differences in WAIS-III and WMS-III performance 
were examined as a function of VSVT hard score categories as determined by Grote 
et al. (2000)--that is, valid, > 20/24; questionable, 18–20; or invalid, < 18. 
Quantile regression models were constructed to compare the strength of the 
relationship between FSIQ and VSVT at various points of the FSIQ distribution. 
Linear regression analyses examined working memory as a potential mediator 
between FSIQ and VSVT performance. The invalid group performed more poorly than 
the valid and questionable groups on multiple measures of intelligence and 
memory. The strength of the relationship between FSIQ and VSVT hard item 
performance decreased as FSIQ increased, and working memory mediated this 
relationship. Results suggest VSVT hard item scores may be impacted by working 
memory difficulties and/or low intellectual functioning.

DOI: 10.1017/S1355617712001397
PMID: 23331934 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


294. Artif Intell Med. 2013 Jan;57(1):49-58. doi: 10.1016/j.artmed.2012.12.001. Epub 
2013 Jan 16.

Mood recognition in bipolar patients through the PSYCHE platform: preliminary 
evaluations and perspectives.

Valenza G(1), Gentili C, Lanatà A, Scilingo EP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Information Engineering and Interdepartmental Research Centre, 
E. Piaggio, Faculty of Engineering, University of Pisa, Via G. Caruso 16, 56122 
Pisa, Italy. g.valenza@ieee.org

BACKGROUND: Bipolar disorders are characterized by a series of both depressive 
and manic or hypomanic episodes. Although common and expensive to treat, the 
clinical assessment of bipolar disorder is still ill-defined.
OBJECTIVE: In the current literature several correlations between mood disorders 
and dysfunctions involving the autonomic nervous system (ANS) can be found. The 
objective of this work is to develop a novel mood recognition system based on a 
pervasive, wearable and personalized monitoring system using ANS-related 
biosignals.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The monitoring platform used in this study is the core 
sensing system of the personalized monitoring systems for care in mental health 
(PSYCHE) European project. It is comprised of a comfortable sensorized t-shirt 
that can acquire the inter-beat interval time series, the heart rate, and the 
respiratory dynamics for long-term monitoring during the day and overnight. In 
this study, three bipolar patients were followed for a period of 90 days during 
which up to six monitoring sessions and psychophysical evaluations were 
performed for each patient. Specific signal processing techniques and artificial 
intelligence algorithms were applied to analyze more than 120 h of data.
RESULTS: Experimental results are expressed in terms of confusion matrices and 
an exhaustive descriptive statistics of the most relevant features is reported 
as well. A classification accuracy of about 97% is achieved for the 
intra-subject analysis. Such an accuracy was found in distinguishing relatively 
good affective balance state (euthymia) from severe clinical states (severe 
depression and mixed state) and is lower in distinguishing euthymia from the 
milder states (accuracy up to 88%).
CONCLUSIONS: The PSYCHE platform could provide a viable decision support system 
in order to improve mood assessment in patient care. Evidences about the 
correlation between mood disorders and ANS dysfunctions were found and the 
obtained results are promising for an effective biosignal-based mood 
recognition.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.artmed.2012.12.001
PMID: 23332576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


295. Ann Thorac Surg. 2013 Apr;95(4):1306-13. doi: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2012.11.021. 
Epub 2013 Jan 17.

Recovery of cognitive function after coronary artery bypass graft operations.

Bruce KM(1), Yelland GW, Smith JA, Robinson SR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery (MMC), Blood-Brain Interactions Group, School of 
Psychology and Psychiatry, Monash University, Clayton, Australia.

Comment in
    Ann Thorac Surg. 2013 Apr;95(4):1313-4.
    Ann Thorac Surg. 2013 Oct;96(4):1529.

BACKGROUND: The effect of coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) operations on 
cognition was examined after controlling for the operation, emotional state, 
preexisting cognitive impairment, and repeated experience with cognitive tests.
METHODS: On-pump CABG patients (n=16), thoracic surgical patients (n=15), and a 
nonsurgical control group (n=15) were tested preoperatively, and at 1 and 8 
weeks postoperatively, using a battery of cognitive tests and an emotional state 
assessment. Patient groups were similar in age, sex, level of education, and 
premorbid intelligence quotient score. Surgical group data were normalized 
against data from the nonsurgical control group before statistical analysis.
RESULTS: CABG patients performed worse on every subtest before the operation, 
and this disadvantage persisted after the operation. Anxiety, depression, and 
stress were associated with impaired cognitive performance in the surgical 
groups 1 week after the operation: 44% of CABG patients and 33% of surgical 
control patients were significantly impaired; yet, by 8 weeks, nearly all 
patients had recovered to preoperative levels, with 25% of CABG and 13% of 
surgical control patients improving beyond their preoperative performance.
CONCLUSIONS: Stress, anxiety, and depression impair cognitive performance in 
association with CABG and thoracic operations. Most patients recover to, or 
exceed, preoperative levels of cognition within 8 weeks. Thus, after controlling 
for nonsurgical factors, the prospects of a tangible improvement in cognition 
after CABG are high.

Copyright © 2013 The Society of Thoracic Surgeons. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2012.11.021
PMID: 23333061 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


296. Psychiatry Res. 2013 Dec 30;210(3):690-3. doi: 10.1016/j.psychres.2012.12.022. 
Epub 2013 Jan 18.

Decreased fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP) is associated with lower 
IQ and earlier illness onset in patients with schizophrenia.

Kovács T(1), Kelemen O, Kéri S.

Author information:
(1)National Psychiatry Center, Budapest, Hungary.

The purpose of this study was to investigate Fragile X Syndrome (FXS)-related 
mechanisms in schizophrenia, including CGG triplet expansion, FMR1 mRNA, and 
fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP) levels in lymphocytes. We 
investigated 36 patients with schizophrenia and 30 healthy controls using 
Southern blot analysis, mRNA assay, and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay 
(ELISA). General intellectual functions were assessed with the Wechsler Adult 
Intelligence Scale-III, and the clinical symptoms were evaluated with the 
Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale. Results revealed that, relative to healthy 
controls, CGG triplet size and FMR1 mRNA were unaltered in patients with 
schizophrenia. However, the FMRP level was significantly reduced in patients 
compared with controls. We found an association between lower FMRP levels, 
reduced IQ, and earlier illness onset in schizophrenia. 
Chlorpromazine-equivalent antipsychotic dose did not correlate with FMRP levels. 
These results raise the possibility of impaired translation of FMR1 mRNA, 
altered epigenetic regulation, or increased degradation of FMRP in 
schizophrenia, which may play a role in dysfunctional neurodevelopmental 
processes and impaired neuroplasticity.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2012.12.022
PMID: 23333116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


297. Early Hum Dev. 2013 Jun;89(6):393-400. doi: 10.1016/j.earlhumdev.2012.12.009. 
Epub 2013 Jan 17.

Preschool neurological assessment in congenital diaphragmatic hernia survivors: 
outcome and perinatal factors associated with neurodevelopmental impairment.

Danzer E(1), Gerdes M, D'Agostino JA, Partridge EA, Hoffman-Craven CH, Bernbaum 
J, Rintoul NE, Flake AW, Adzick NS, Hedrick HL.

Author information:
(1)The Center for Fetal Diagnosis and Treatment, The Children's Hospital of 
Philadelphia, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the preschool neurodevelopmental outcome in CDH survivors 
between 2 and 5 years of age and to identify perinatal and postnatal factors 
that may be predictive of persistent neurological deficits.
METHODS: The study cohort consists of 60 CDH survivors that were enrolled in our 
prospective, follow-up program between January 2006 and September 2012. 
Developmental assessment of study participants between 2 and 3 years of age was 
performed using the Bayley Scales of Infant Development, 3rd Edition (BSID-III). 
Cognitive outcomes of CDH children older than 3 years of age were evaluated 
using The Wechsler Preschool and Primary Scale of Intelligence, 3rd Edition 
(WPPSI-III). Neurodevelopmental delay was defined by a score of ≤ 85 in any of 
the evaluated composite scores. Severe impairments were defined as a score of ≤ 
69 in at least one domain tested.
RESULTS: Mean follow-up for children assessed by BSID-III (n=42) and WPPSI-III 
(n=18) was 28 ± 4.5 months and 58 ± 4.0 months, respectively. As a group, mean 
composite and subdomain BSID-III and WPPSI-III scores were within the expected 
normal range. For the BSID-III group, 9 (22%) had mild deficits in at least one 
domain, and 6 (14%) had severe deficits in at least one. Only 3 (7%) patients 
demonstrated severe neurological delays for all BSID-III composite scales. For 
the WPPSI-III group, 4 (22%) patients scored within the borderline-delayed range 
for at least one subscale and only one (6%) child had a WPPSI-III VIQ score in 
the severe delay range. Abnormal muscle tonicity was found in 35% (hypotonicity 
33%, hypertonicity 2%). Need for ECMO, prolonged ventilation, hypotonicity, and 
other surrogate markers of disease severity (P<0.05) were associated with 
borderline or delayed neurological outcome.
CONCLUSION: The majority of CDH children are functioning in the average range at 
early preschool and preschool age. Neuromuscular hypotonicity is common in CDH 
survivors. CDH severity appears to be predictive of adverse neurodevelopmental 
outcome.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.earlhumdev.2012.12.009
PMID: 23333410 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


298. Neuroimage. 2013 May 1;71:260-74. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2013.01.013. Epub 
2013 Jan 17.

Topological properties of large-scale structural brain networks in children with 
familial risk for reading difficulties.

Hosseini SM(1), Black JM, Soriano T, Bugescu N, Martinez R, Raman MM, Kesler SR, 
Hoeft F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Stanford University School 
of Medicine, 401 Quarry Rd., Stanford, CA 94305-5795, USA. hosseiny@stanford.edu

Developmental dyslexia is a neurobiological deficit characterized by persistent 
difficulty in learning to read in children and adults who otherwise possess 
normal intelligence. Functional and structural connectivity data suggest that 
developmental dyslexia could be a disconnection syndrome. However, whether 
abnormalities in connectivity exist in beginning readers at-risk for reading 
difficulties is unknown. Using graph-theoretical analysis, we investigated 
differences in global and regional topological properties of structural brain 
networks in 42 beginning readers with (FH+) and without (FH-) familial risk for 
reading difficulties. We constructed separate structural correlation networks 
based on measures of surface area and cortical thickness. Results revealed 
changes in topological properties in brain regions known to be abnormal in 
dyslexia (left supramarginal gyrus, left inferior frontal gyrus) in the FH+ 
group mainly in the network constructed from measures of cortical surface area. 
We also found alterations in topological properties in regions that are not 
often advertised as dyslexia but nonetheless play important role in reading 
(left posterior cingulate, hippocampus, and left precentral gyrus). To our 
knowledge, this is the first report of altered topological properties of 
structural correlation networks in children at risk for reading difficulty, and 
motivates future studies that examine the mechanisms underlying how these brain 
networks may mediate the influences of family history on reading outcome.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2013.01.013
PMCID: PMC3655726
PMID: 23333415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


299. J Psychiatr Pract. 2013 Jan;19(1):42-53. doi: 
10.1097/01.pra.0000426326.49396.97.

Rates and correlates of nonadherence to treatment in obsessive-compulsive 
disorder.

Santana L(1), Fontenelle JM, Yücel M, Fontenelle LF.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Psychiatry, Federal University of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.

The goal of this cross-sectional study was to identify the rates and correlates 
of treatment refusal and/or dropout in a treatment-seeking sample of patients 
with obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). Specifically, we investigated the 
relationships between treatment adherence and different OCD dimensions, 
intelligence, and insight into OCD. The study involved 60 patients with OCD who 
were being treated in a specialized university OCD clinic. The patients' 
adherence to standard treatment was assessed with the Treatment Adherence 
Survey-Patient Version. Patients were also evaluated with the following 
instruments: the Mini-International Neuropsychiatric Interview 6.0, the 
Dimensional Yale-Brown ObsessiveCompulsive Scale-short version, the Brown 
Assessment of Beliefs Scale, the Beck Depression Inventory, the Sheehan 
Disability Scale, and the Wechsler Abbreviated Scale of Intelligence. The 
patients with OCD who refused to undertake CBT (46%) displayed greater rates of 
obsessions with aggressive/violent content. Among patients who started CBT 
(n=32), 51% withdrew before completing therapy. Patients who refused medication 
for OCD (52%) displayed greater severity of OCD (particularly hoarding), less 
insight into symptoms, and greater disability. Of the patients with OCD who were 
given drug therapy (n=58), 61% reported having taken their medication less 
frequently and/or at a smaller dose than prescribed or discontinuing the use of 
medication altogether. Treatment nonadherence is common among patients with OCD. 
This study found that aggressive/violent obsessions were associated with 
nonadherence to CBT, while greater severity of OCD (particularly hoarding) and 
poorer insight were associated with poorer adherence to drug therapy. Future 
research is needed to clarify whether these OCD phenotypes predict or are the 
consequence of treatment nonadherence.

DOI: 10.1097/01.pra.0000426326.49396.97
PMID: 23334678 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


300. J Med Syst. 2013 Apr;37(2):9928. doi: 10.1007/s10916-013-9928-5. Epub 2013 Jan 
22.

Predefined three tier business intelligence architecture in healthcare 
enterprise.

Wang M(1).

Author information:
(1)Integration Service and Decision Support, Steward HealthCare System, 30 
Perwal Street, Westwood, MA, 02090, USA, may.mmwang@gmail.com.

Business Intelligence (BI) has caused extensive concerns and widespread use in 
gathering, processing and analyzing data and providing enterprise users the 
methodology to make decisions. Different from traditional BI architecture, this 
paper proposes a new BI architecture, Top-Down Scalable BI architecture with 
defining mechanism for enterprise decision making solutions and aims at 
establishing a rapid, consistent, and scalable multiple applications on multiple 
platforms of BI mechanism. The two opposite information flows in our BI 
architecture offer the merits of having the high level of organizational 
prospects and making full use of the existing resources. We also introduced the 
avg-bed-waiting-time factor to evaluate hospital care capacity.

DOI: 10.1007/s10916-013-9928-5
PMID: 23334840 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


301. Aging Ment Health. 2013;17(5):527-34. doi: 10.1080/13607863.2012.758235. Epub 
2013 Jan 21.

Role of theory of mind and executive function in explaining social intelligence: 
a structural equation modeling approach.

Yeh ZT(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Psychology, Fu Jen Catholic University, Taipei, 
Taiwan. yehzaiting@ntu.edu.tw

OBJECTIVES: Social intelligence is the ability to understand others and the 
social context effectively and thus to interact with people successfully. 
Research has suggested that the theory of mind (ToM) and executive function may 
play important roles in explaining social intelligence. The specific aim of the 
present study was to test with structural equation modeling (SEM) the hypothesis 
that performance on ToM tasks is more associated with social intelligence in the 
elderly than is performance on executive functions.
METHODS: One hundred and seventy-seven participants (age 56-96) completed ToM, 
executive function, and other basic cognition tasks, and were rated with social 
intelligence scales.
RESULTS: The SEM results showed that ToM and executive function were strongly 
correlated (0.54); however, only the path coefficient from ToM to social 
intelligence, and not from executive function, was significant (0.37).
CONCLUSIONS: ToM performance, but not executive function, was strongly 
correlated with social intelligence among elderly individuals. ToM and executive 
function might play different roles in social behavior during normal aging; 
however, based on the present results, it is possible that ToM might play an 
important role in social intelligence.

DOI: 10.1080/13607863.2012.758235
PMID: 23336440 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


302. Acta Psychol (Amst). 2013 Feb;142(2):195-202. doi: 10.1016/j.actpsy.2012.12.007. 
Epub 2013 Jan 19.

Process-based account for the effects of perceptual attention and executive 
attention on fluid intelligence: an integrative approach.

Ren X(1), Altmeyer M, Reiss S, Schweizer K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Goethe University Frankfurt, Mertonstr. 17, 60054 
Frankfurt a. M., Germany. xzrenpsy@gmail.com

Perceptual attention and executive attention represent two higher-order types of 
attention and associate with distinctly different ways of information 
processing. It is hypothesized that these two types of attention implicate 
different cognitive processes, which are assumed to account for the differential 
effects of perceptual attention and executive attention on fluid intelligence. 
Specifically, an encoding process is assumed to be crucial in completing the 
tasks of perceptual attention while two executive processes, updating and 
shifting, are stimulated in completing the tasks of executive attention. The 
proposed hypothesis was tested by means of an integrative approach combining 
experimental manipulations and psychometric modeling. In a sample of 210 
participants the encoding process has proven indispensable in completing the 
tasks of perceptual attention, and this process accounted for a considerable 
part of fluid intelligence that was assessed by two figural reasoning tests. In 
contrast, the two executive processes, updating and shifting, turned out to be 
necessary in performance according to the tasks of executive attention and these 
processes accounted for a larger part of the variance in fluid intelligence than 
that of the processes underlying perceptual attention.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.actpsy.2012.12.007
PMID: 23337082 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


303. Early Interv Psychiatry. 2014 Feb;8(1):32-8. doi: 10.1111/eip.12029. Epub 2013 
Jan 24.

Cognitive remediation in schizophrenia: efficacy and effectiveness in patients 
with early versus long-term course of illness.

Bowie CR(1), Grossman M, Gupta M, Oyewumi LK, Harvey PD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Queen's University, Kingston, Ontario, Canada; 
Department of Psychiatry, Queen's University, Kingston, Ontario, Canada; Centre 
for Neuroscience Studies, Queen's University, Kingston, Ontario, Canada.

AIM: We examined the efficacy and effectiveness (transfer to functional 
competence and everyday functioning) of cognitive remediation in early-course 
(within 5 years of first episode) and long-term (more than 15 years of illness) 
schizophrenia.
METHODS: Treatment lasted 12 weeks and included computerized exercises, 
strategic monitoring and methods to transfer cognition to behaviour. Assessments 
included a standard battery of neurocognition, performance-based measures of 
social and adaptive competence, and case manager ratings of real-world 
functional behaviour. Changes from baseline to post-treatment were examined with 
repeated measures analysis of variance and estimated premorbid intelligence and 
total months in hospital as covariates.
RESULTS: The early-course group had larger improvements in measures of 
processing speed and executive functions, as well as larger improvements in 
adaptive competence and real-world work skills. Duration of illness was 
inversely associated with improvement in neurocognition and real-world work 
skills.
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment of cognitive impairments is feasible in both early-course 
and chronic schizophrenia, but the clinical meaningfulness and generalization to 
functioning appear to be more substantial when delivered early. Cognitive 
remediation should be considered a tool for early intervention in schizophrenia.

© 2013 Wiley Publishing Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/eip.12029
PMID: 23343011 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


304. Neuropsychologia. 2013 Mar;51(4):725-30. doi: 
10.1016/j.neuropsychologia.2013.01.008. Epub 2013 Jan 21.

Intelligence and executive functions in frontotemporal dementia.

Roca M(1), Manes F, Gleichgerrcht E, Watson P, Ibáñez A, Thompson R, Torralva T, 
Duncan J.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Cognitive Neurology, Buenos Aires, Argentina. mroca@ineco.org.ar

Recently (Roca et al. (2010), we used the relationship with general intelligence 
(Spearman's g) to define two sets of frontal lobe or "executive" tests. For one 
group, including Wisconsin card sorting and verbal fluency, reduction in g 
entirely explained the deficits found in frontal patients. For another group, 
including tests of social cognition and multitasking, frontal deficits remained 
even after correction for g. Preliminary evidence suggested a link of the latter 
tasks to more anterior frontal regions. Here we develop this distinction in the 
context of behavioural-variant frontotemporal dementia (bvFTD), a disorder which 
progressively affects frontal lobe cortices. In bvFTD, some executive tests, 
including tests of social cognition and multitasking, decline from the early 
stage of the disease, while others, including classical executive tests such as 
Wisconsin card sorting, verbal fluency or Trail Making Test part B, show 
deficits only later on. Here we show that, while deficits in the classical 
executive tests are entirely explained by g, deficits in the social cognition 
and multitasking tests are not. The results suggest a relatively selective 
cognitive deficit at mild stages of the disease, followed by more widespread 
cognitive decline well predicted by g.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuropsychologia.2013.01.008
PMCID: PMC3610016
PMID: 23347963 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


305. J Child Adolesc Psychiatr Nurs. 2013 Feb;26(1):32-41. doi: 10.1111/jcap.12020. 
Epub 2012 Dec 17.

The effectiveness of narrative therapy with young people with autism.

Cashin A(1), Browne G, Bradbury J, Mulder A.

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Human Sciences, Southern Cross University, Lismore, NSW, 
Australia. andrew.cashin@scu.edu.au

PROBLEM: The aim of this pilot study was to be the first step toward empirically 
determining whether narrative therapy is effective in helping young people with 
autism who present with emotional and behavioral problems. Autism is 
increasingly being recognized in young people with average and above 
intelligence. Because of the nature of autism, these young people have 
difficulty navigating the challenges of school and adolescence. Narrative 
therapy can help them with their current difficulties and also help them develop 
skills to address future challenges. Narrative therapy involves working with a 
person to examine and edit the stories the person tells himself or herself about 
the world. It is designed to promote social adaptation while working on specific 
problems of living.
METHOD: This pilot intervention study used a convenience sample of 10 young 
people with autism (10-16 years) to evaluate the effectiveness of five 1 hr 
sessions of narrative therapy conducted over 10 weeks. The study used the 
parent-rated Strengths and Difficulties Questionnaire (SDQ) as the primary 
outcome measure. Secondary outcome measures were the Kessler-10 Scale of 
Psychological Distress (K-10), the Beck Hopelessness Scale, and a stress 
biomarker, the salivary cortisol to dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) ratio.
FINDINGS: Significant improvement in psychological distress identified through 
the K-10 was demonstrated. Significant improvement was identified on the 
Emotional Symptoms Scale of the SDQ. The cortisol:DHEA ratio was responsive and 
a power analysis indicated that further study is indicated with a larger sample.
CONCLUSION: Narrative therapy has merit as an intervention with young people 
with autism. Further research is indicated.

© 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/jcap.12020
PMID: 23351106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


306. Lancet Neurol. 2013 Mar;12(3):244-52. doi: 10.1016/S1474-4422(12)70323-X. Epub 
2013 Jan 23.

Fetal antiepileptic drug exposure and cognitive outcomes at age 6 years (NEAD 
study): a prospective observational study.

Meador KJ(1), Baker GA, Browning N, Cohen MJ, Bromley RL, Clayton-Smith J, 
Kalayjian LA, Kanner A, Liporace JD, Pennell PB, Privitera M, Loring DW; NEAD 
Study Group.

Collaborators: Labiner D, Moon J, Sherman S, Combs Cantrell DT, Silver C, Goyal 
M, Schoenberg MR, Pack A, Palmese C, Echo J, Meador KJ, Loring D, Pennell P, 
Drane D, Moore E, Denham M, Epstein C, Gess J, Helmers S, Henry T, Lee G, Cohen 
M, Motamedi G, Flax E, Bromfield E, Boyer K, Dworetzky B, Cole A, Halperin L, 
Shavel-Jessop S, Barkley G, Moir B, Harden C, Tamny-Young T, Penovich P, Minter 
D, Moore L, Murdock K, Liporace J, Wilcox K, Kanner A, Nelson MN, Rosenfeld W, 
Meyer M, Clayton-Smith J, Mawer G, Kini U, Martin R, Privitera M, Bellman J, 
Ficker D, Baade L, Liow K, Baker G, Booth A, Casswell M, Barrie C, Bromley R, 
Ramsay E, Arena P, Kalayjian L, Heck C, Padilla S, Miller J, Rosenbaum G, 
Wilensky A, Constantino T, Smith J, Adab N, Veling-Warnke G, Sam M, O'Donovan C, 
Naylor C, Nobles S, Santos C, Holmes GL, Druzin M, Morrell M, Nelson L, Finnell 
R, Yerby M, Adeli K, Wells P, Blalock T, Browning N, Crawford T, Hendrickson L, 
Hoagland R, Jolles B, Kunchai MK, Loblein H, May R, Neyzari O, Ogunsola Y, 
Winestone J, Wolff M, Renehan PZ, Zajdowicz T.

Author information:
(1)Neurology and Pediatrics, Emory University, Atlanta, GA 30322, USA. 
kimford.meador@emory.edu

Comment in
    Lancet Neurol. 2013 Mar;12(3):219-20.

BACKGROUND: Many women of childbearing potential take antiepileptic drugs, but 
the cognitive effects of fetal exposure are uncertain. We aimed to assess 
effects of commonly used antiepileptic drugs on cognitive outcomes in children 
up to 6 years of age.
METHODS: In this prospective, observational, assessor-masked, multicentre study, 
we enrolled pregnant women with epilepsy on antiepileptic drug monotherapy 
(carbamazepine, lamotrigine, phenytoin, or valproate) between October, 1999, and 
February, 2004, at 25 epilepsy centres in the UK and the USA. Our primary 
outcome was intelligence quotient (IQ) at 6 years of age (age-6 IQ) in all 
children, assessed with linear regression adjusted for maternal IQ, 
antiepileptic drug type, standardised dose, gestational birth age, and use of 
periconceptional folate. We also assessed multiple cognitive domains and 
compared findings with outcomes at younger ages. This study is registered with 
ClinicalTrials.gov, number NCT00021866.
FINDINGS: We included 305 mothers and 311 children (six twin pairs) in the 
primary analysis. 224 children completed 6 years of follow-up (6-year-completer 
sample). Multivariate analysis of all children showed that age-6 IQ was lower 
after exposure to valproate (mean 97, 95% CI 94-101) than to carbamazepine (105, 
102-108; p=0·0015), lamotrigine (108, 105-110; p=0·0003), or phenytoin (108, 
104-112; p=0·0006). Children exposed to valproate did poorly on measures of 
verbal and memory abilities compared with those exposed to the other 
antiepileptic drugs and on non-verbal and executive functions compared with 
lamotrigine (but not carbamazepine or phenytoin). High doses of valproate were 
negatively associated with IQ (r=-0·56, p<0·0001), verbal ability (r=-0·40, 
p=0·0045), non-verbal ability (r=-0·42, p=0·0028), memory (r=-0·30, p=0·0434), 
and executive function (r=-0·42, p=0·0004), but other antiepileptic drugs were 
not. Age-6 IQ correlated with IQs at younger ages, and IQ improved with age for 
infants exposed to any antiepileptic drug. Compared with a normative sample (173 
[93%] of 187 children), right-handedness was less frequent in children in our 
study overall (185 [86%] of 215; p=0·0404) and in the lamotrigine (59 [83%] of 
71; p=0·0287) and valproate (38 [79%] of 40; p=0·0089) groups. Verbal abilities 
were worse than non-verbal abilities in children in our study overall and in the 
lamotrigine and valproate groups. Mean IQs were higher in children exposed to 
periconceptional folate (108, 95% CI 106-111) than they were in unexposed 
children (101, 98-104; p=0·0009).
INTERPRETATION: Fetal valproate exposure has dose-dependent associations with 
reduced cognitive abilities across a range of domains at 6 years of age. Reduced 
right-handedness and verbal (vs non-verbal) abilities might be attributable to 
changes in cerebral lateralisation induced by exposure to antiepileptic drugs. 
The positive association of periconceptional folate with IQ is consistent with 
other recent studies.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1474-4422(12)70323-X
PMCID: PMC3684942
PMID: 23352199 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


307. Pain. 2013 Mar;154(3):449-458. doi: 10.1016/j.pain.2012.12.006. Epub 2012 Dec 
20.

Does neonatal morphine use affect neuropsychological outcomes at 8 to 9 years of 
age?

de Graaf J(1), van Lingen RA, Valkenburg AJ, Weisglas-Kuperus N, Jebbink LG, 
Wijnberg-Williams B, Anand KJS, Tibboel D, van Dijk M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Surgery, Erasmus MC-Sophia Children's Hospital, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands Princess Amalia Department of Pediatrics, Department 
of Neonatology, Isala Clinics, Zwolle, The Netherlands Department of Pediatrics, 
Division of Neonatology, Erasmus MC-Sophia Children's Hospital, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands Department of Medical Psychology, Isala Clinics, Zwolle, The 
Netherlands Department of Pediatrics, University of Tennessee Health Science 
Center, Memphis, TN, USA.

Morphine is widely used to treat severe pain in neonatal intensive care unit 
patients. Animal studies suggest adverse long-term side effects of neonatal 
morphine, but a follow-up study of 5-year-old children who participated in a 
morphine-placebo controlled trial as newborns found no such effects on the 
child's general functioning. This study indicated that morphine may negatively 
affect response inhibition, a domain of executive functions. Therefore, we 
performed a second follow-up study in the same population at the age of 8 to 9 
years, focused on the child's general functioning in terms of intelligence, 
visual motor integration, and behavior and on executive functions. Children in 
the morphine group showed significantly less externalizing problems according to 
the parents but more internalizing behavior according to the teachers, but only 
after adjustment for intelligence quotient (IQ), potential confounders using a 
propensity score, and additional open-label morphine. Morphine-treated children 
showed significantly fewer problems with executive functions in daily life as 
rated by parents for the subscales inhibition and organization of materials and 
for planning/organizing as rated by the teachers. After adjustment for IQ and 
the propensity score, executive functioning as rated by the parents remained 
statistically significantly better in the morphine-treated group. The influence 
of the additional morphine given was not of a significant influence for any of 
the outcome variables. Overall, the present study demonstrates that continuous 
morphine infusion of 10 μg/kg/h during the neonatal period does not harm general 
functioning and may even have a positive influence on executive functions at 8 
to 9 years.

Copyright © 2012 International Association for the Study of Pain. Published by 
Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pain.2012.12.006
PMID: 23352760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


308. Int J Psychophysiol. 2013 Aug;89(2):265-72. doi: 10.1016/j.ijpsycho.2013.01.006. 
Epub 2013 Jan 23.

Sleep and neurocognitive functioning in children with eczema.

Camfferman D(1), Kennedy JD, Gold M, Simpson C, Lushington K.

Author information:
(1)Discipline of Paediatrics, School of Reproductive Health and Paediatrics, 
University of Adelaide, South Australia, Australia. Electronic address: 
camffer1@tpg.com.au.

Sleep disruption in childhood is associated with clearly defined deficits in 
neurocognition and behaviour. Childhood eczema is also a potent cause of sleep 
disruption though it is unknown whether it too results in neurocognitive 
deficits. To test this hypothesis, neurocognitive (WISC-IV), parental-reported 
sleep quality (Sleep Disturbance Scale of Children (SDSC)) and overnight 
polysomnographic (PSG) data were collected in 21 children with eczema and 20 
healthy controls (age range 6-16 years). Children with eczema had worse sleep 
quality on both PSG (notably increased nocturnal wakefulness, a higher number of 
stage shifts and a longer latency to REM onset) and parental report. In 
addition, they demonstrated significant neurocognitive deficits (especially 
verbal comprehension, perceptual reasoning and to a lesser extent working 
memory) with a composite Full Scale IQ 16 points lower than controls. Parental 
reported sleep problems but not PSG parameters were correlated with reduced 
neurocognitive performance. However, hierarchical regression analyses revealed 
that eczema status was predictive while sleep fragmentation (parental or PSG) 
was not predictive of neurocognitive performance. As this is the first study to 
systematically examine neurocognitive functioning in children with eczema and 
given the finding of significant deficits it merits replication especially given 
the prevalence of the condition. The unanswered question is whether these 
cognitive deficits normalise with effective eczema treatment and if this is 
mediated by improvements in sleep architecture.

Crown Copyright © 2013. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijpsycho.2013.01.006
PMID: 23353660 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


309. Saudi J Kidney Dis Transpl. 2013 Jan;24(1):67-71. doi: 10.4103/1319-2442.106244.

Assessing the intelligence of children with chronic kidney diseases.

Amr M(1), El-Gilany AH, Bakr A, El Sheshtawy E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Mansoura University, Mansoura, Egypt. 
mostafapsy@yahoo.com

To evaluate the level of intelligence in children with chronic kidney diseases 
(CKDs), 12 children with CKD stage 5 on regular hemodialysis, 12 children in the 
predialysis stage, and 12 as controls were assessed using the Wechsler 
Intelligence Scale for Children (WISC). Mean scores on the verbal, performance, 
and full scale IQ were significantly lower in the predialysis and dialysis 
children than in the healthy children, while the mean score on the arithmetic 
subtests was significantly lower in the predialysis children than in the 
dialysis group. In conclusion, a better understanding of the neurocognitive 
function in children with CKDs is a critical element to be ascertained early 
with proper assessment programs so as to design appropriate educational 
interventions for this handicapping illness.

DOI: 10.4103/1319-2442.106244
PMID: 23354194 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


310. Crim Behav Ment Health. 2013 Feb;23(1):56-71. doi: 10.1002/cbm.1854. Epub 2013 
Jan 25.

Criminal thinking styles and emotional intelligence in Egyptian offenders.

Megreya AM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Faculty of Arts, Menoufia University, Shebin 
El-Kom, Egypt. amegreya@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND: The Psychological Inventory of Criminal Thinking Styles (PICTS) has 
been applied extensively to the study of criminal behaviour and cognition. 
Increasingly growing evidence indicates that criminal thinking styles vary 
considerably among individuals, and these individual variations appear to be 
crucial for a full understanding of criminal behaviour.
AIMS: This study aimed to examine individual differences in criminal thinking as 
a function of emotional intelligence.
METHODS: A group of 56 Egyptian male prisoners completed the PICTS and Bar-On 
Emotional Quotient Inventory (EQ-i). The correlations between these assessments 
were examined using a series of Pearson correlations coefficients, with 
Bonferroni correction.
RESULTS: General criminal thinking, reactive criminal thinking and five criminal 
thinking styles (mollification, cutoff, power orientation, cognitive indolence 
and discontinuity) negatively correlated with emotional intelligence. On the 
other hand, proactive criminal thinking and three criminal thinking styles 
(entitlement, superoptimism and sentimentality) did not associate with emotional 
intelligence.
CONCLUSIONS: Emotional intelligence is an important correlate of individual 
differences in criminal thinking, especially its reactive aspects. Practical 
implications of this suggestion were discussed.

Copyright © 2013 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/cbm.1854
PMID: 23355497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


311. Psychol Assess. 2013 Jun;25(2):442-55. doi: 10.1037/a0031335. Epub 2013 Jan 28.

Exploratory and higher order factor analysis of the WJ-III full test battery: a 
school-aged analysis.

Dombrowski SC(1), Watkins MW.

Author information:
(1)School Psychology Program, Department of Graduate Education, Leadership & 
Counseling, Rider University, Lawrenceville, NJ 08648, USA. 
sdombrowski@rider.edu

Erratum in
    Psychol Assess. 2013 Jun;25(2):390.

Development of the Woodcock-Johnson (3rd ed.; WJ-III; Woodcock, McGrew & Mather, 
2001a) was guided in part by Carroll's (1993) 3-stratum theory of cognitive 
abilities and based on confirmatory factor analysis (CFA), even though Carroll 
used exploratory factor analysis (EFA) to derive his theory. Using CFA, McGrew 
and Woodcock (2001) found a 9-factor model across all age ranges. To determine 
if the 9-factor structure holds for the full WJ-III battery, we applied 
currently recognized best practices in EFA to 2 school-aged 42-subtest 
correlation matrices (ages 9–13 and 14–19 years). Six factors emerged at the 
9–13 age range, while 5 factors were indicated at the 14–19 age range. The 
resulting 1st-order factors displayed patterns of both convergence with and 
divergence from the WJ-III results presented in the Technical Manual. These 
results also revealed a robust manifestation of general intelligence (g) that 
dwarfed the variance attributed to the lower order factors. It is surprising 
that this study represents the first time the WJ-III full battery was subjected 
to EFA analyses given the instrument's significant use by practitioners and that 
it served as the initial evidentiary basis for Cattell-Horn-Carroll (CHC) 
theory. The lack of confirmation of CFA results with EFA methods in the current 
study permits questioning of the structure of the WJ-III and its relationship 
with CHC theory. Additional independent, structural analyses are clearly 
indicated for the WJ-III full test battery before we can be confident in its 
structure.

PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2013 APA, all rights reserved

DOI: 10.1037/a0031335
PMID: 23356683 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


312. Neuroimage. 2013 May 15;72:143-52. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2013.01.032. Epub 
2013 Jan 26.

Neuroanatomic overlap between intelligence and cognitive factors: morphometry 
methods provide support for the key role of the frontal lobes.

Colom R(1), Burgaleta M, Román FJ, Karama S, Alvarez-Linera J, Abad FJ, Martínez 
K, Quiroga MÁ, Haier RJ.

Author information:
(1)Universidad Autónoma de Madrid, Spain; Fundación CIEN-Fundación Reina Sofía, 
Spain. roberto.colom@uam.es

Evidence from neuroimaging studies suggests that intelligence differences may be 
supported by a parieto-frontal network. Research shows that this network is also 
relevant for cognitive functions such as working memory and attention. However, 
previous studies have not explicitly analyzed the commonality of brain areas 
between a broad array of intelligence factors and cognitive functions tested in 
the same sample. Here fluid, crystallized, and spatial intelligence, along with 
working memory, executive updating, attention, and processing speed were each 
measured by three diverse tests or tasks. These twenty-one measures were 
completed by a group of one hundred and four healthy young adults. Three 
cortical measures (cortical gray matter volume, cortical surface area, and 
cortical thickness) were regressed against psychological latent scores obtained 
from a confirmatory factor analysis for removing test and task specific 
variance. For cortical gray matter volume and cortical surface area, the main 
overlapping clusters were observed in the middle frontal gyrus and involved 
fluid intelligence and working memory. Crystallized intelligence showed an 
overlapping cluster with fluid intelligence and working memory in the middle 
frontal gyrus. The inferior frontal gyrus showed overlap for crystallized 
intelligence, spatial intelligence, attention, and processing speed. The 
fusiform gyrus in temporal cortex showed overlap for spatial intelligence and 
attention. Parietal and occipital areas did not show any overlap across 
intelligence and cognitive factors. Taken together, these findings underscore 
that structural features of gray matter in the frontal lobes support those 
aspects of intelligence related to basic cognitive processes.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2013.01.032
PMID: 23357078 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


313. Neuroscience. 2013 Apr 16;236:186-94. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2012.12.060. 
Epub 2013 Jan 26.

Working memory training is associated with lower prefrontal cortex activation in 
a divergent thinking task.

Vartanian O(1), Jobidon ME, Bouak F, Nakashima A, Smith I, Lam Q, Cheung B.

Author information:
(1)Defence R&D Canada-Toronto, Canada; University of Toronto-Scarborough, 
Canada. oshin.vartanian@drdc-rddc.gc.ca

Working memory (WM) training has been shown to lead to improvements in WM 
capacity and fluid intelligence. Given that divergent thinking loads on WM and 
fluid intelligence, we tested the hypothesis that WM training would improve 
performance and moderate neural function in the Alternate Uses Task (AUT)-a 
classic test of divergent thinking. We tested this hypothesis by administering 
the AUT in the functional magnetic resonance imaging scanner following a short 
regimen of WM training (experimental condition), or engagement in a choice 
reaction time task not expected to engage WM (active control condition). 
Participants in the experimental group exhibited significant improvement in 
performance in the WM task as a function of training, as well as a significant 
gain in fluid intelligence. Although the two groups did not differ in their 
performance on the AUT, activation was significantly lower in the experimental 
group in ventrolateral prefrontal and dorsolateral prefrontal cortices-two brain 
regions known to play dissociable and critical roles in divergent thinking. 
Furthermore, gain in fluid intelligence mediated the effect of training on brain 
activation in ventrolateral prefrontal cortex. These results indicate that a 
short regimen of WM training is associated with lower prefrontal activation-a 
marker of neural efficiency-in divergent thinking.

Crown Copyright © 2013. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2012.12.060
PMID: 23357116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


314. Mol Psychiatry. 2014 Feb;19(2):253-8. doi: 10.1038/mp.2012.184. Epub 2013 Jan 
29.

Childhood intelligence is heritable, highly polygenic and associated with 
FNBP1L.

Benyamin B(1), Pourcain B(2), Davis OS(3), Davies G(4), Hansell NK(5), Brion 
MJ(6), Kirkpatrick RM(7), Cents RA(8), Franić S(9), Miller MB(7), Haworth CM(3), 
Meaburn E(10), Price TS(3), Evans DM(2), Timpson N(2), Kemp J(2), Ring S(2), 
McArdle W(2), Medland SE(5), Yang J(11), Harris SE(12), Liewald DC(13), Scheet 
P(9), Xiao X(14), Hudziak JJ(15), de Geus EJ(9); Wellcome Trust Case Control 
Consortium 2 (WTCCC2); Jaddoe VW(16), Starr JM(17), Verhulst FC(18), Pennell 
C(19), Tiemeier H(20), Iacono WG(7), Palmer LJ(21), Montgomery GW(5), Martin 
NG(5), Boomsma DI(9), Posthuma D(22), McGue M(23), Wright MJ(5), Davey Smith 
G(2), Deary IJ(13), Plomin R(3), Visscher PM(24).

Author information:
(1)1] The University of Queensland, Queensland Brain Institute, St Lucia, 
Queensland, Australia [2] Queensland Institute of Medical Research, Brisbane, 
Queensland, Australia.
(2)Medical Research Council Centre for Causal Analyses in Translational 
Epidemiology, University of Bristol, Bristol, UK.
(3)King's College London, Social, Genetic and Developmental Psychiatry Centre, 
Institute of Psychiatry, London, UK.
(4)Department of Psychology, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, Scotland, UK.
(5)Queensland Institute of Medical Research, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia.
(6)1] Medical Research Council Centre for Causal Analyses in Translational 
Epidemiology, University of Bristol, Bristol, UK [2] School of Women's and 
Infants' Health, The University of Western Australia, Perth, Western Australia, 
Australia.
(7)Department of Psychology, University of Minnesota, St Paul, MN, USA.
(8)1] The Generation R Study Group, Erasmus MC-University Medical Centre 
Rotterdam, Rotterdam, The Netherlands [2] Department of Child and Adolescent 
Psychiatry, Erasmus MC-University Medical Centre Rotterdam, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(9)Netherlands Twin Register, Department of Biological Psychology, Vrije 
Universiteit Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(10)Department of Psychology, Birkbeck University of London, London, UK.
(11)The University of Queensland Diamantina Institute, Princess Alexandra 
Hospital, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia.
(12)1] Molecular Medicine Centre, Institute for Genetics and Molecular Medicine 
Centre, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK [2] Centre for Cognitive Ageing 
and Cognitive Epidemiology, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.
(13)1] Department of Psychology, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, Scotland, 
UK [2] Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, University of 
Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.
(14)Department of Epidemiology, University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, 
Houston, TX, USA.
(15)Department of Psychiatry, College of Medicine, University of Vermont, 
Burlington, VT, USA.
(16)1] The Generation R Study Group, Erasmus MC-University Medical Centre 
Rotterdam, Rotterdam, The Netherlands [2] Department of Epidemiology, Erasmus 
MC-University Medical Centre Rotterdam, Rotterdam, The Netherlands [3] 
Department of Pediatrics, Erasmus Medical Center Rotterdam, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(17)1] Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, University of 
Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK [2] Alzheimer Scotland Dementia Research Centre, 
Department of Psychology, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, Scotland, UK.
(18)Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Erasmus MC-University Medical 
Centre Rotterdam, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(19)School of Women's and Infants' Health, The University of Western Australia, 
Perth, Western Australia, Australia.
(20)1] Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Erasmus MC-University 
Medical Centre Rotterdam, Rotterdam, The Netherlands [2] Department of 
Epidemiology, Erasmus MC-University Medical Centre Rotterdam, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands [3] Department of Psychiatry, Erasmus MC-University Medical Centre 
Rotterdam, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(21)1] Genetic Epidemiology and Biostatistics Platform, Ontario Institute for 
Cancer Research, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada [2] Samuel 
Lunenfeld Research Institute, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(22)1] Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Erasmus MC-University 
Medical Centre Rotterdam, Rotterdam, The Netherlands [2] Department of 
Functional Genomics, Center for Neurogenomics and Cognitive Research (CNCR), 
Neuroscience Campus Amsterdam (NCA), VU University Amsterdam and VU Medical 
Centre, Amsterdam, The Netherlands [3] Department of Clinical Genetics, Section 
Medical Genomics, VU Medical Centre, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(23)1] Department of Psychology, University of Minnesota, St Paul, MN, USA [2] 
Department of Epidemiology, University of Southern Denmark, Odense, Denmark.
(24)1] The University of Queensland, Queensland Brain Institute, St Lucia, 
Queensland, Australia [2] Queensland Institute of Medical Research, Brisbane, 
Queensland, Australia [3] The University of Queensland Diamantina Institute, 
Princess Alexandra Hospital, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia [4] Centre for 
Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, 
UK.

Intelligence in childhood, as measured by psychometric cognitive tests, is a 
strong predictor of many important life outcomes, including educational 
attainment, income, health and lifespan. Results from twin, family and adoption 
studies are consistent with general intelligence being highly heritable and 
genetically stable throughout the life course. No robustly associated genetic 
loci or variants for childhood intelligence have been reported. Here, we report 
the first genome-wide association study (GWAS) on childhood intelligence (age 
range 6-18 years) from 17,989 individuals in six discovery and three replication 
samples. Although no individual single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were 
detected with genome-wide significance, we show that the aggregate effects of 
common SNPs explain 22-46% of phenotypic variation in childhood intelligence in 
the three largest cohorts (P=3.9 × 10(-15), 0.014 and 0.028). FNBP1L, previously 
reported to be the most significantly associated gene for adult intelligence, 
was also significantly associated with childhood intelligence (P=0.003). 
Polygenic prediction analyses resulted in a significant correlation between 
predictor and outcome in all replication cohorts. The proportion of childhood 
intelligence explained by the predictor reached 1.2% (P=6 × 10(-5)), 3.5% 
(P=10(-3)) and 0.5% (P=6 × 10(-5)) in three independent validation cohorts. 
Given the sample sizes, these genetic prediction results are consistent with 
expectations if the genetic architecture of childhood intelligence is like that 
of body mass index or height. Our study provides molecular support for the 
heritability and polygenic nature of childhood intelligence. Larger sample sizes 
will be required to detect individual variants with genome-wide significance.

DOI: 10.1038/mp.2012.184
PMCID: PMC3935975
PMID: 23358156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: The authors declare no 
conflict of interest.


315. Mol Psychiatry. 2014 Mar;19(3):380-4. doi: 10.1038/mp.2012.191. Epub 2013 Jan 
29.

DNA evidence for strong genetic stability and increasing heritability of 
intelligence from age 7 to 12.

Trzaskowski M(1), Yang J(2), Visscher PM(3), Plomin R(1).

Author information:
(1)King's College London, MRC Social, Genetic and Developmental Psychiatry 
Centre, Institute of Psychiatry, Denmark Hill, London, UK.
(2)University of Queensland Diamantina Institute, The University of Queensland, 
Princess Alexandra Hospital, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia.
(3)1] University of Queensland Diamantina Institute, The University of 
Queensland, Princess Alexandra Hospital, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia [2] 
Queensland Brain Institute, The University of Queensland, Brisbane, Queensland, 
Australia.

Two genetic findings from twin research have far-reaching implications for 
understanding individual differences in the development of brain function as 
indexed by general cognitive ability (g, aka intelligence): (1) The same genes 
affect g throughout development, even though (2) heritability increases. It is 
now possible to test these hypotheses using DNA alone. From 1.7 million DNA 
markers and g scores at ages 7 and 12 on 2875 children, the DNA genetic 
correlation from age 7 to 12 was 0.73, highly similar to the genetic correlation 
of 0.75 estimated from 6702 pairs of twins from the same sample. DNA-estimated 
heritabilities increased from 0.26 at age 7 to 0.45 at age 12; twin-estimated 
heritabilities also increased from 0.35 to 0.48. These DNA results confirm the 
results of twin studies indicating strong genetic stability but increasing 
heritability for g, despite mean changes in brain structure and function from 
childhood to adolescence.

DOI: 10.1038/mp.2012.191
PMCID: PMC3932402
PMID: 23358157 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


316. Neuropsychiatr. 2013;27(1):2-10. doi: 10.1007/s40211-012-0045-3. Epub 2013 Jan 
29.

[Creativity in cannabis-users and in drug addicts in maintenance treatment and 
in rehabilitation].

[Article in German]

Bliem B(1), Unterrainer HF, Papousek I, Weiss EM, Fink A.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Psychologie, Arbeitsbereich für Biologische Psychologie, 
Karl-Franzens-Universität Graz, Universitätsplatz 2/III, 8010, Graz, Österreich.

The main aim of this study was to investigate potential differences between 
different groups of drug addicts (patients in maintenance treatment, n = 14; 
patients in rehabilitation, n = 12) and Cannabis-Users (n = 13), along with a 
healthy control group (n = 18), with respect to verbal and figural creativity 
and general cognitive ability. Participants worked on different measures for the 
assessment of different facets of creativity, intelligence and experienced 
psychiatric symptoms. The results indicated that patients in maintenance and, to 
some extent Cannabis-Users scored higher regarding verbal creativity than 
patients in rehabilitation. With respect to figural creativity we observed no 
differences between the experimental groups. Concerning the Big Five personality 
traits, patients in maintenance treatment scored highest on Neuroticism while on 
a purely descriptive level Cannabis-Users achieved the highest scores with 
respect to openness to experience and extraversion.

DOI: 10.1007/s40211-012-0045-3
PMID: 23359015 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


317. Pediatrics. 2013 Feb;131(2):e486-94. doi: 10.1542/peds.2011-2421. Epub 2013 Jan 
28.

Validation of rapid neurodevelopmental assessment for 2- to 5-year-old children 
in Bangladesh.

Khan NZ(1), Muslima H, Shilpi AB, Begum D, Parveen M, Akter N, Ferdous S, Nahar 
K, McConachie H, Darmstadt GL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Neuroscience, Dhaka Shishu (Children's) Hospital, 
Sher-e-Bangla Nagar, Dhaka 1207, Bangladesh. naila.z.khan@gmail.com

OBJECTIVE: Validate a tool to determine neurodevelopmental impairments (NDIs) in 
>2- to 5-year-old children in a country with limited child development 
expertise.
METHODS: Rapid Neurodevelopmental Assessment (RNDA) is a tool designed to detect 
functional status and NDIs across multiple neurodevelopmental domains. Validity 
was determined in 77 children enrolled by door-to-door sampling in Dhaka and who 
were administered the RNDA by 1 of 6 testers (4 developmental therapists, 2 
special education teachers) and simultaneously administered a test of adaptive 
behavior (AB; Independent Behavior Assessment Scale) and intelligence quotient 
(IQ) tests (Bayley Scales of Infant Development II, Stanford Binet Intelligence 
Scale, Wechsler Preschool and Primary Scales of Intelligence) by psychologists.
RESULTS: Interrater reliability ranged from good to excellent. There were 
significant differences in AB in mean percentile scores on the Independent 
Behavior Assessment Scale for motor (P = .0001), socialization (P = .001), 
communication (P = .001), and full-scale (P = .001) scores in children with ≥1 
NDI ("any NDI") versus no NDI. Significant differences in those with versus 
those without "any NDI" were found on IQ scores. Sensitivity and specificity for 
"significant difficulties" (defined as AB z-scores < -2 SDs and/or IQ <70) and 
"mild difficulties included" (AB z-scores < -1SD and/or IQ <85) were 90% and 60% 
and 80% and 76%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The RNDA validity results are promising for use by child care 
professionals in field and clinical settings, but the tool needs further 
replication and refinement for assessment of specific impairments of vision, 
hearing, and seizures.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.2011-2421
PMID: 23359579 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


318. Epilepsia. 2013 Mar;54(3):e37-40. doi: 10.1111/epi.12088. Epub 2013 Jan 29.

Word-finding difficulties confound performance on verbal cognitive measures in 
adults with intractable left temporal lobe epilepsy.

Busch RM(1), Chapin JS, Haut JS, Dulay MF, Naugle RI, Najm I.

Author information:
(1)Epilepsy Center, Neurological Institute, Cleveland, Ohio 44195, USA. 
buschr@ccf.org

This study sought to determine if word-finding difficulties (WFDs), which are 
common in adults with dominant temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE), are related to 
performance on verbal cognitive measures, including memory. One hundred six 
individuals with left TLE and pathologically confirmed mesial temporal sclerosis 
completed comprehensive preoperative neuropsychological evaluations. Patients 
were divided into two groups based on the degree of benefit received from 
phonemic cueing on a confrontation naming task. Cognitive performance was then 
compared between patients with greater and fewer WFDs. Patients with greater 
WFDs demonstrated poorer performance on many verbal cognitive measures compared 
to those with fewer WFDs. In contrast, there were no significant differences 
between groups on any of the nonverbal cognitive measures. Chi-square analyses 
indicated that below average verbal memory performance occurred at a 
significantly higher rate for patients with greater WFDs (42-46%) as compared to 
patients with fewer WFDs (18-24%). Results showed that WFDs confound performance 
on verbal cognitive measures in adult patients with left TLE, particularly on 
measures with high demands for lexical retrieval. This suggests that when 
patients have word-retrieval difficulties, measures of verbal memory and verbal 
intelligence may be underestimated and potentially lead to misinterpretation of 
test performance and misinformation regarding risk of declines after surgical 
resection.

Wiley Periodicals, Inc. © 2013 International League Against Epilepsy.

DOI: 10.1111/epi.12088
PMID: 23360444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


319. Med Teach. 2013;35(3):243-7. doi: 10.3109/0142159X.2012.737964. Epub 2013 Jan 
29.

Emotional intelligence competencies provide a developmental curriculum for 
medical training.

Stoller JK(1), Taylor CA, Farver CF.

Author information:
(1)Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH 44195, USA. stollej@ccf.org

Since healthcare faces challenges of access, quality, and cost, effective 
leadership for healthcare is needed. This need is especially acute among 
physicians, whose demanding training focuses on scientific and clinical skills, 
eclipsing attention to leadership development. Among the competencies needed by 
leaders, emotional intelligence (EI) - defined as the ability to understand and 
manage oneself and to understand others and manage relationships - has been 
shown to differentiate between great and average leaders. In this context, 
teaching EI as part of the medical training curriculum is recommended. 
Furthermore, because physicians' developmental needs evolve over the course of 
prolonged training, specific components of EI (e.g., teambuilding, empathy, and 
negotiation) should be taught at various phases of medical training. Consistent 
with the concept of a spiral curriculum, such EI competencies should be 
revisited iteratively throughout training, with differing emphasis and 
increasing sophistication to meet evolving needs. For example, teamwork training 
is needed early in undergraduate medical curricula to prompt collaborative 
learning. Teamwork training is also needed during residency, when physicians 
participate with differing roles on patient care teams. Training in EI should 
also extend beyond graduate medical training to confer the skills needed by 
clinicians and by faculty in academic medical centers.

DOI: 10.3109/0142159X.2012.737964
PMID: 23360483 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


320. Neurosci Bull. 2013 Feb;29(1):16-27. doi: 10.1007/s12264-013-1306-2. Epub 2013 
Jan 30.

Effects of methylphenidate on resting-state brain activity in normal adults: an 
fMRI study.

Zhu Y(1), Gao B, Hua J, Liu W, Deng Y, Zhang L, Jiang B, Zang Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, School of Medicine, Zhejiang University, 
Hangzhou, 310058, China.

Comment in
    Neurosci Bull. 2013 Feb;29(1):3.

Methylphenidate (MPH) is one of the most commonly used stimulants for the 
treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Although several 
studies have evaluated the effects of MPH on human brain activation during 
specific cognitive tasks using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), few 
studies have focused on spontaneous brain activity. In the current study, we 
investigated the effect of MPH on the intra-regional synchronization of 
spontaneous brain activity during the resting state in 18 normal adult males. A 
handedness questionnaire and the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale were applied 
before medication, and a resting-state fMRI scan was obtained 1 h after 
medication (20 mg MPH or placebo, order counterbalanced between participants). 
We demonstrated that: (1) there were no significant differences in the 
performance of behavioral tasks between the MPH and placebo groups; (2) the left 
middle and superior temporal gyri had stronger MPHrelated regional homogeneity 
(ReHo); and (3) the left lingual gyrus had weaker MPH-related ReHo. Our findings 
showed that the ReHo in some brain areas changes with MPH compared to placebo in 
normal adults, even though there are no behavioral differences. This method can 
be applied to patients with mental illness who may be treated with MPH, and be 
used to compare the difference between patients taking MPH and normal 
participants, to help reveal the mechanism of how MPH works.

DOI: 10.1007/s12264-013-1306-2
PMCID: PMC5561867
PMID: 23361519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


321. Acta Neurochir (Wien). 2013 Apr;155(4):627-33. doi: 10.1007/s00701-013-1625-0. 
Epub 2013 Jan 30.

Effect of carotid endarterectomy on cognitive function in patients with 
asymptomatic carotid artery stenosis.

Takaiwa A(1), Kuwayama N, Akioka N, Kurosaki K, Hayashi N, Endo S, Kuroda S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Faculty of Medicine, University of Toyama, 
Sugitani 2630, Toyama, Toyama, 930-0194, Japan.

BACKGROUND: This study was conducted to determine if patients with asymptomatic 
carotid artery stenosis show cognitive function decline, and if they experience 
any changes in cognitive function after carotid endarterectomy (CEA).
METHOD: Cognitive function was examined in 15 patients (12 males and three 
females, 70.0 ± 6.5 years) with asymptomatic carotid artery stenosis before and 
3 months after CEA. Cognitive function was assessed with the Repeatable Battery 
for the Assessment of Neuropsychological Status (RBANS), two subtests of the 
Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Revised (WAIS-R 2 subtests), and the Japanese 
version of National Adult Reading Test (JART). The patients' average scores were 
compared with the normal average by one-sample t-tests, and the before and after 
scores were compared with paired t-tests. Changes in each patient were 
calculated from difference before and after CEA using 95 % confidence intervals.
RESULTS: Before surgery, patients showed significant cognitive decline in RBANS 
total scale and immediate memory, language, and attention. At 3 months after 
CEA, the total scale and the immediate memory were not significantly different 
from the normal average. The average total scale score, the immediate memory and 
attention, and the WAIS-R 2 subtests scores were increased after treatment. 
Changes in each patient were calculated from the scores before and after CEA. At 
3 months after CEA, the rate of increase in RBANS scores were 60.0 % of the 
patients for immediate memory, 26.7 % for visuospatial/constructional, 33.3 % 
for language and attention, 26.7 % for delayed memory, 47.7 % for total scale 
and 26.7 % for WAIS-R 2 subtests. Thus, so-called asymptomatic patients exhibit 
mild cognitive impairment before surgery, but after CEA, patients recover normal 
memory abilities.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings of mild cognitive dysfunction in asymptomatic patients 
suggest that they might be symptomatic after all.

DOI: 10.1007/s00701-013-1625-0
PMID: 23361637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


322. J Psychiatr Ment Health Nurs. 2014 Feb;21(1):31-8. doi: 10.1111/jpm.12044. Epub 
2013 Jan 31.

Neurological and intellectual disabilities among adolescents within a custodial 
institution in South-West Nigeria.

Atilola O(1), Omigbodun O, Bella-Awusah T, Lagunju I, Igbeneghu P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University College Hospital Ibadan, Ibadan, 
Nigeria.

A total of 67 adolescents from a juvenile remand home were matched with 67 other 
adolescents by age and gender, with a view to determine the prevalence and 
spectrum of neurological and intellectual disabilities. Intelligence quotient 
(IQ) was estimated using an adapted version of the Slosson's Intelligence Test 
and a full neurological evaluation was carried out. The mean IQ score for the 
remand home participants was significantly lower than the controls (77 ± 11 vs. 
99 ± 14; t = 1.6, P = 0.001). Almost half (46.7%) of the participants in the 
remand home had intellectual disability of varying degrees, including borderline 
intellectual functioning, compared with only two (3.3%) of the comparison group 
(P < 0.001). Epilepsy and neurological deficits were significantly more 
prevalent among the remand home group, particularly those admitted as victims of 
neglect, compared with the comparison group (P ≤ 0.02). These findings and 
recent literature were used to speculate the possible underlying factors. Policy 
implications for child social welfare in Nigeria were suggested.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jpm.12044
PMID: 23362804 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


323. Int J Neurosci. 2013 Aug;123(8):526-31. doi: 10.3109/00207454.2013.771261. Epub 
2013 Mar 11.

Intraindividual neuropsychological test variability in healthy individuals with 
high average intelligence and educational attainment.

Heyanka DJ(1), Holster JL, Golden CJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry & Behavioral Sciences, University of Oklahoma Health 
Sciences Center, Oklahoma City, OK, USA. daniel-heyanka@ouhsc.edu

Knowledge of patterns of neuropsychological performance among normal, healthy 
individuals is integral to the practice of clinical neuropsychology, because 
clinicians may not always account for intraindividual variability (IIV) before 
coming to diagnostic conclusions. The IIV was assessed among a sample of 46 
healthy individuals with high average intelligence and educational attainment, 
utilizing a battery of neuropsychological tests, including the Wechsler Adult 
Intelligence Scale, Fourth Edition (WAIS-IV) and Wechsler Memory Scale, Fourth 
Edition (WMS-IV). The data indicated substantial variability in neurocognitive 
abilities. All participants were found to demonstrate scores considered impaired 
by at least 2 standard deviations (SDs). Despite adjusting for outliers, no 
participant produced a "normal" testing profile with an intraindividual maximum 
discrepancy (MD) of less than 1 SD in either direction. When WAIS-IV Full Scale 
IQ (FSIQ) was considered, participants generally demonstrated cognitive test 
scores ranging from 2 SDs less than to 1.5 SDs greater than their FSIQ. 
Furthermore, after demographic corrections, the majority (59%) of participants 
demonstrated at least 1 impaired cognitive test score, as defined by being 1 to 
1.5 SDs below the mean. Overall, results substantiate the need for clinicians to 
consider FSIQ and educational attainment in interpretation of neuropsychological 
testing results, given the relevant commonality of "abnormal" test scores within 
this population. This may ultimately reduce the likelihood of making 
false-positive conclusions of impairment when educational attainment and 
intelligence are high, thus improving diagnostic accuracy.

DOI: 10.3109/00207454.2013.771261
PMID: 23363537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


324. J Nerv Ment Dis. 2013 Feb;201(2):99-104. doi: 10.1097/NMD.0b013e31827f64b0.

Borderline personality disorder and emotional intelligence.

Peter M(1), Schuurmans H, Vingerhoets AJ, Smeets G, Verkoeijen P, Arntz A.

Author information:
(1)GGZ Breburg, Tilburg, The Netherlands. s.peter@ggzbreburg.nl

The present study investigated emotional intelligence (EI) in borderline 
personality disorder (BPD). It was hypothesized that patients with BPD (n = 61) 
compared with patients with other personality disorders (PDs; n = 69) and 
nonpatients (n = 248) would show higher scores on the ability to perceive 
emotions and impairments in the ability to regulate emotions. EI was assessed 
with the Mayer-Salovey-Caruso Emotional Intelligence Test (Mayer, Salovey, and 
Caruso [New York: MHS, 2002]). As compared with the PD group and the nonpatient 
group, the patients with BPD displayed the anticipated deficits in their ability 
to understand, whereas no differences emerged with respect to their ability to 
perceive, use, and regulate emotions. In addition, a negative relationship was 
found between the severity of BPD and total EI score. However, this relationship 
disappeared when intelligence quotient was partialled out. These results suggest 
that BPD is associated with emotion understanding deficits, whereas temporary 
severity of BPD is associated with emotion regulation deficits.

DOI: 10.1097/NMD.0b013e31827f64b0
PMID: 23364117 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


325. J Cutan Med Surg. 2013 Jan-Feb;17(1):46-51. doi: 10.2310/7750.2012.12003.

Examining the relationship between alopecia areata, androgenetic alopecia, and 
emotional intelligence.

Monselise A(1), Bar-On R, Chan L, Leibushor N, McElwee K, Shapiro J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology and Skin Science, University of British Columbia, 
Vancouver, Canada. a.mons@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND: Emotional stress has been associated with the development of 
alopecia areata (AA) and androgenetic alopecia (AGA). Emotional intelligence 
(EI), a component of general intelligence, is thought to govern the recognition, 
expression, and control of stress and other emotions. People with low EI are 
unable to adequately control stress in everyday life.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate EI differences between AA and AGA patients and a 
control population.
METHODS: Thirty-five AGA patients and 42 AA patients, with patchy (n  =  28), 
ophiasis (n  =  5), totalis (n  =  5), and universalis (n  =  4) distribution of 
hair loss, completed a 133-item Emotional Quotient-Inventory (EQ-I ) 
psychometric assessment. Scores were compared between AA, AGA, and 77 control 
subjects obtained from the North American normative population sample on which 
the psychometric instrument was normed.
RESULTS: Statistically significant differences were found in EI between AA 
patients and controls with the EQ-I Stress Tolerance scale (p  =  .005). AGA 
patients also differed significantly from the controls but to a lesser degree 
compared toAA patients. In overall EI, there were no apparent differences 
between AGA and AA patients.
CONCLUSIONS: AA and AGA patients exhibit a mild depressive reaction to their 
condition, with AA patients demonstrating a significantly stronger deficiency in 
coping with stress than AGA patients. The data support a psychosomatic 
contribution to AA. Referral of patients for EI assessment and psychosocial 
counseling could help reduce stress.

DOI: 10.2310/7750.2012.12003
PMID: 23364150 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


326. Stereotact Funct Neurosurg. 2013;91(2):104-12. doi: 10.1159/000343198. Epub 2013 
Jan 22.

Bitemporal intractable epilepsy: could it be surgically treatable?

Chkhenkeli SA(1), Šramka M, Rakviashvili TN, Lortkipanidze GS, Magalashvili GE, 
Bregvadze ESh, Otarashvili A, Gagoshidze TSh.

Author information:
(1)Department of Functional Neurosurgery, Epilepsy Surgery Center, The 
Saradzhishvili Institute of Clinical and Experimental Neurology, Tbilisi, 
Georgia. sozari@neurology.bsd.uchicago.edu

Comment in
    Stereotact Funct Neurosurg. 2013;91(2):134-7.

BACKGROUND: The goal of this study is to retrieve the attention to the treatment 
opportunities for this cohort of intractable bitemporal epilepsy patients who in 
most cases are not considered optimal candidates for surgery.
OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this study is to demonstrate that 
electrophysiologically guided precise surgeries on both temporal lobes can have 
a beneficial effect on seizures without additional cognitive decline.
METHODS: Twenty-one intractable bitemporal epilepsy patients [13 men, 8 women, 
mean age 21 years (range 6-43), mean duration of illness 17 years (range 3-31), 
frequency of seizures 6-55 per month] underwent stereotactic cryosurgery on both 
temporal lobes guided by chronic and intraoperative depth electrode studies.
RESULTS: Class I ('free of disabling seizures') outcome was achieved for 11/21 
(52%), class II ('rare seizures') for 6/21 (29%), and class IV ('no worthwhile 
improvement') for 4/21 (19%) patients. No worsening of seizure or clinically 
significant cognitive or memory impairments were observed in this cohort of 
patients (follow-up 5-10 years).
CONCLUSIONS: The minimally invasive precise surgeries on both temporal lobes 
confined to the removal/lesion of just the brain tissue that exhibited epileptic 
activity can have a beneficial effect on seizure frequency and severity without 
additional devastating declines in intelligence, learning and memory.

Copyright © 2013 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000343198
PMID: 23364510 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


327. Yonsei Med J. 2013 Mar 1;54(2):306-14. doi: 10.3349/ymj.2013.54.2.306.

Health-related quality of life and cognitive functioning at on- and 
off-treatment periods in children aged between 6-13 years old with brain tumors: 
a prospective longitudinal study.

An KJ(1), Joung YS, Sung KW, Kim JH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Seoul Metropolitan Eunpyeong Hospital, Samsung 
Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University School of Medicine, 50 Irwon-dong, 
Gangnam-gu, Seoul 135-710, Korea.

PURPOSE: Our study aimed to examine the relationship between intelligence and 
health-related quality of life (HRQOL) in children (6-13 years old) diagnosed as 
having a brain tumor.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We administered a Korean version of the Wechsler 
Intelligence Scale for Children-III, the Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory, 
version 4.0 (PedsQL), the Korean version of the Parenting Stress Index-Short 
Form, and the Korean Version of the Parenting Sense of Competence (K-PSOC) scale 
before or after initial radiotherapy (T1) and after treatment termination (T2). 
In total, 13 patients completed both the T1 and T2 interviews.
RESULTS: Scores significantly declined between T1 and T2 on the full-scale 
intelligence quotients (FIQ), verbal intelligence quotients (VIQ), performance 
intelligence quotients (PIQ), similarity and coding tests, as well as the 
K-PSOC, which measures parental anxiety. FIQ scores at T1 were correlated with 
the self-reported PedsQL total scores (r=0.739) and the parent proxy-report 
PedsQL scores for school functioning (r=0.706) at T2. Also, the FIQ scores at T2 
were correlated with the self-reported PedsQL total scores (r=0.748) and scores 
for physical health (r=0.728) at T2.
CONCLUSION: The cognitive ability and intelligence level of the patients 
significantly declined between on and off treatment periods, and higher 
intelligence functioning at both on and off treatment was correlated with 
long-term higher HRQOL. Further investigations that monitor intelligence, HRQOL 
and parenting stress over a longer period, using a greater number of 
participants, are needed.

DOI: 10.3349/ymj.2013.54.2.306
PMCID: PMC3575987
PMID: 23364961 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no financial conflicts of 
interest.


328. BMC Genomics. 2013 Jan 31;14:67. doi: 10.1186/1471-2164-14-67.

Genome-wide analysis of human hotspot intersected genes highlights the roles of 
meiotic recombination in evolution and disease.

Zhou T(1), Hu Z, Zhou Z, Guo X, Sha J.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Reproductive Medicine, Nanjing Medical University, 
140 Hanzhong Road, Nanjing, Jiangsu Province 210029, People's Republic of China.

BACKGROUND: Meiotic recombination events are not randomly located, but rather 
cluster at hotspot regions. Recently, the fine-scale mapping of genome-wide 
human recombination hotspots was performed. Here, we systematically analyzed the 
evolutionary and disease-associated features of hotspots that overlapped with 
protein-coding genes.
RESULTS: In this study, we defined hotspot intersected genes as HI genes. We 
found that HI genes were prone to be located in the extracellular part and were 
functionally enriched in cell-to-cell communication. Tissue-specific genes and 
secreted protein encoding genes were overrepresented in HI genes, while 
housekeeping genes were underrepresented. Compared to slowly evolving 
housekeeping genes and random genes with lower recombination rates, HI genes 
evolved faster. The fact that brain and blood specific genes were 
overrepresented in HI genes indicates that they may be involved in the evolution 
of human intelligence and the immune system. We also found that genes related to 
disease were enriched in HI genes, especially genes with disease-associated 
chromosomal rearrangements. Hotspot sequence motifs were overrepresented in 
common sequences of HI genes and genes with disease-associated chromosomal 
rearrangements. We further listed repeat elements that were enriched both in 
hotspots and genes with disease-associated chromosomal rearrangements.
CONCLUSION: HI genes are evolving and may be involved in the generation of key 
features of human during evolution. Disease-associated genes may be by-products 
of meiotic recombination. In addition, hotspot sequence motifs and repeat 
elements showed the connection between meiotic recombination and genes with 
disease-associated chromosomal rearrangements at the sequence level. Our study 
will enable us to better understand the evolutionary and biological significance 
of human meiotic recombination.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2164-14-67
PMCID: PMC3620679
PMID: 23368819 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


329. J Anesth. 2013 Aug;27(4):487-92. doi: 10.1007/s00540-012-1548-6. Epub 2013 Jan 
31.

Hippocampal volume reduction in elderly patients at risk for postoperative 
cognitive dysfunction.

Chen MH(1), Liao Y, Rong PF, Hu R, Lin GX, Ouyang W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, The Third Xiangya Hospital, Central South 
University, Changsha, 410013, China.

PURPOSE: Postoperative cognitive dysfunction (POCD) is a formidable public 
health issue, which would not only affect the quality of life among elderly 
patients but also lead to pulmonary infection and increased mortality. While, 
there is a lack of an effective indicator in predicting POCD. As one pivotal 
part of the limbic system in brain, hippocampus is associated with cognitive 
function. Hippocampal atrophy could indicate the degree of changes in cognitive 
function.
METHODS: Forty-one ASA II or III patients (23 male, 18 female) aged ≥65 years 
undergoing open gastrointestinal tract surgery were enrolled in this study. MRI 
was performed to measure the volume of hippocampal formation before surgery and 
the results were standardized according to individual intracranial volume. All 
patients underwent a battery of neuropsychological tests including sensitive 
tests on the Wechsler adult memory scale and Wechsler adult intelligence scale, 
trail making test and the grooved pegboard test. We used the Z score to identify 
POCD as recommended by ISPOCD. All patients were then divided into POCD group 
and non-POCD group according to the results of the neuropsychological tests. The 
results of the tests were correlated with the volume of hippocampal formation 
measured by MRI. The value of MRI measurement of hippocampal volume in 
predicting POCD was analyzed. Multivariate linear correlation analyses of 
compositive Z score using potential contributing factors such as age, duration 
of anesthesia, education and hippocampal volume was carried out.
RESULTS: Thirty-six patients completed the whole battery of neuropsychological 
tests after surgery. Thirteen of the 36 patients were found to have POCD (36 %) 
on the postoperative 4th day. The hippocampal volume was significantly smaller 
in POCD group (4.75 ± 0.23) than in non-POCD group (5.06 ± 0.31). Hippocampal 
volume had great influence on Z score, and had negative correlation with Z 
score.
CONCLUSION: The MRI measurement of hippocampal volume is suggested to be 
valuable as a predictor of POCD in the elderly.

DOI: 10.1007/s00540-012-1548-6
PMID: 23371369 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


330. Sci Eng Ethics. 2014 Mar;20(1):23-40. doi: 10.1007/s11948-012-9408-1. Epub 2013 
Jan 31.

Ethics in actor networks, or: what Latour could learn from Darwin and Dewey.

Waelbers K(1), Dorstewitz P.

Author information:
(1), Rector Nuijensweg 1, 5371 LR, Ravenstein, The Netherlands, 
waelbers@zonnet.nl.

In contemporary Science, Technology and Society (STS) studies, Bruno Latour's 
Actor Network Theory (ANT) is often used to study how social change arises from 
interaction between people and technologies. Though Latour's approach is rich in 
the sense of enabling scholars to appreciate the complexity of many relevant 
technological, environmental, and social factors in their studies, the approach 
is poor from an ethical point of view: the doings of things and people are 
couched in one and the same behaviorist (third person) vocabulary without giving 
due recognition to the ethical relevance of human intelligence, sympathy and 
reflection in making responsible choices. This article argues that two other 
naturalist projects, the non-teleological virtue ethics of Charles Darwin and 
the pragmatist instrumentalism of John Dewey can enrich ANT-based STS studies, 
both, in a descriptive and in a normative sense.

DOI: 10.1007/s11948-012-9408-1
PMID: 23371512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


331. Science. 2013 Feb 1;339(6119):574-6. doi: 10.1126/science.1225883.

Emergent sensing of complex environments by mobile animal groups.

Berdahl A(1), Torney CJ, Ioannou CC, Faria JJ, Couzin ID.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Princeton University, 
Princeton, NJ 08544, USA. aberdahl@princeton.edu

The capacity for groups to exhibit collective intelligence is an often-cited 
advantage of group living. Previous studies have shown that social organisms 
frequently benefit from pooling imperfect individual estimates. However, in 
principle, collective intelligence may also emerge from interactions between 
individuals, rather than from the enhancement of personal estimates. Here, we 
reveal that this emergent problem solving is the predominant mechanism by which 
a mobile animal group responds to complex environmental gradients. Robust 
collective sensing arises at the group level from individuals modulating their 
speed in response to local, scalar, measurements of light and through social 
interaction with others. This distributed sensing requires only rudimentary 
cognition and thus could be widespread across biological taxa, in addition to 
being appropriate and cost-effective for robotic agents.

DOI: 10.1126/science.1225883
PMID: 23372013 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


332. Sleep. 2013 Feb 1;36(2):237-43. doi: 10.5665/sleep.2380.

Sleep spindle activity and cognitive performance in healthy children.

Chatburn A(1), Coussens S, Lushington K, Kennedy D, Baumert M, Kohler M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Respiratory and Sleep Medicine, Women's and Children's 
Hospital, North Adelaide, Australia.

STUDY OBJECTIVES: To investigate the association between indices of sleep 
spindle activity and cognitive performance in a sample of healthy children.
DESIGN: Correlational. Intelligence (Stanford-Binet) and neurocognitive 
functioning (NEPSY) were assessed, with sleep variables being measured during 
overnight polysomnography.
SETTING: Hospital sleep laboratory.
PARTICIPANTS: Twenty-seven healthy children (mean age 8.19 y; 14 female, 13 
male).
INTERVENTIONS: N/A.
MEASUREMENTS AND RESULTS: Participants underwent a single night of overnight 
polysomnography after completing measures of intelligence and neurocognitive 
functioning. Sleep spindles were visually identified by an experienced sleep 
scoring technician and separated algorithmically into fast (> 13 Hz) and slow 
spindle (< 13 Hz) categories. The number of fast spindles was significantly 
correlated with narrative memory (r(s) = 0.38) and sensorimotor functioning 
(-0.43). Mean central frequency of spindles was also significantly correlated 
with sensorimotor functioning (-0.41), planning ability (-0.41), and working 
memory (-0.54).
CONCLUSIONS: Basal sleep spindle activity is associated with different aspects 
of cognitive performance in children. To the extent that these associations in a 
pediatric population are different from what is known in adult sleep may play an 
important role in development.

DOI: 10.5665/sleep.2380
PMCID: PMC3543056
PMID: 23372271 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


333. Appl Neuropsychol Adult. 2013;20(1):7-14. doi: 10.1080/09084282.2012.670148. 
Epub 2012 Sep 20.

Exploration of the Raven APM-National Adult Reading Test discrepancy as a 
measure of intellectual decline in older persons.

van den Berg E(1), Nys GM, Brands AM, Ruis C, van Zandvoort MJ, Kessels RP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, Helmholtz Instituut, Utrecht 
University, Utrecht, The Netherlands. e.vandenberg1@uu.nl

Previous studies have shown that the discrepancy between performance on "fluid" 
and "crystallized" intelligence measures may serve as an indicator for 
intellectual decline. The validity of this procedure in older persons is 
unknown. The present study developed a multiple regression equation, to predict 
the Raven Advanced Progressive Matrices (APM) score from the National Adult 
Reading Test (NART) score and demographic variables in a large sample of healthy 
older persons (n = 270). The discrepancy between the predicted and observed 
Raven APM scores was transformed into a percentile distribution as an indicator 
of intellectual decline, which can be used in clinical practice. The validity of 
the procedure was further examined by comparing the proportion of persons with a 
significant decline (at the -1 and -1.65 SD level) between two older patient 
samples (87 patients with cerebral stroke and 387 patients with diabetes 
mellitus) by means of χ(2) tests. There was a significantly higher rate of 
intellectual decline at the -1 SD ("below average") and -1.65 SD ("impaired") 
cutoff levels for patients with stroke compared with patients with diabetes 
(stroke, 34% and 14%; diabetes, 16% and 5%, p < .05). These findings suggest 
that the Raven APM-NART discrepancy may be a useful measure of intellectual 
decline in older persons.

DOI: 10.1080/09084282.2012.670148
PMID: 23373679 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


334. Appl Neuropsychol Adult. 2013;20(1):41-6. doi: 10.1080/09084282.2012.670166. 
Epub 2012 Oct 9.

Structural validity of the Dutch-language version of the WAIS-III in a 
psychiatric sample.

van der Heijden P(1), van den Bos P, Mol B, Kessels RP.

Author information:
(1)Center for Adolescent Psychiatry, Reinier van Arkel Mental Health Institute, 
's-Hertogenbosch, The Netherlands. P.T.vander.Heijden@RvAGroep.nl

The Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Fourth Edition (WAIS-IV; Wechsler, 2008 ) 
no longer provides the "traditional" Verbal IQ and Performance IQ deviation 
scores. In the current study, we investigated the structural validity of these 
scores in the scale's predecessor, the WAIS-Third Edition (WAIS-III; Wechsler, 
1997c ), which is still widely used in clinical practice, especially outside the 
United States. Confirmative (CFA) and exploratory factor analyses (EFA) were 
performed on WAIS-III data from a Dutch sample of 247 psychiatric patients. Four 
competing models were tested in the CFA on 11 subtests. The model that fit the 
data best was a model in which subtests loaded on the four factor indexes (i.e., 
3 Verbal Comprehension subtests, 3 Perceptual Organization subtests, 3 Working 
Memory subtests, and 2 Processing Speed subtests) as proposed by the manual 
(Wechsler, 1997b ). In the EFA on 13 subtests with four factors extracted, all 
subtests were found to load on the factors in accordance with the WAIS-III test 
manual. However, Picture Arrangement, Arithmetic, and Picture Completion showed 
only moderate loadings on the proposed factors. Implications for clinical 
practice are discussed.

DOI: 10.1080/09084282.2012.670166
PMID: 23373683 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


335. Paediatr Perinat Epidemiol. 2013 Mar;27(2):188-98. doi: 10.1111/ppe.12028. Epub 
2012 Dec 12.

Maternal hypertensive disorders during pregnancy and mild cognitive limitations 
in the offspring.

Heikura U(1), Hartikainen AL, Nordström T, Pouta A, Taanila A, Järvelin MR.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Health Sciences, University of Oulu, Finland. 
ulla.heikura@oulu.fi

BACKGROUND: It remains unclear whether maternal hypertensive disorders could 
impact cognitive development of the child. The aim of this study was to explore 
the association between hypertensive disorders and other maternal biological and 
social factors on the risk of mild cognitive limitations (intelligence quotient 
50-85) in the offspring.
METHODS: An 11.5-year follow-up study of the Northern Finland Birth Cohort 1986 
(n = 9432) was utilised. The analysis included 8847 singleton children, of whom 
198 had mild cognitive limitations. Gestational hypertension was defined as de 
novo hypertension (blood pressure ≥ 140/90), diagnosed mid-pregnancy in a 
previously normotensive woman. Data on intelligence level of the children were 
based on standardised intelligence test results.
RESULTS: Eleven per cent (n = 20) of mothers having a child with mild cognitive 
limitations had gestational hypertension. Maternal gestational hypertension was 
independently associated with increased odds of mild cognitive limitation in the 
offspring (odds ratio 2.4 [95% confidence interval 1.4, 3.9]). Other independent 
maternal risk factors for mild cognitive limitation were high pre-pregnancy body 
mass index (≥30 kg/m(2)), multiparity (≥4) and low education. In addition 
family's socio-economic status lower than professional, male gender and small 
birthweight-for-gestational age appeared as independent risk factors for mild 
cognitive limitation.
CONCLUSIONS: Gestational hypertension should be considered as one of the adverse 
early risk factors that may predispose to impaired cognitive development in 
childhood.

© 2012 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ppe.12028
PMID: 23374064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


336. Brain. 2013 Feb;136(Pt 2):593-600. doi: 10.1093/brain/aws352. Epub 2013 Jan 31.

The adult seizure and social outcomes of children with partial complex seizures.

Camfield CS(1), Camfield PR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics, Dalhousie University and the IWK Health Centre, 
Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada B3K 6R8. Camfield@dal.ca

Most intellectually normal children with focal epilepsy have partial complex or 
focal with secondary generalization seizures without a precise epilepsy 
syndrome. Their long-term outcome is largely unknown. Cases were identified from 
the population-based Nova Scotia Childhood Epilepsy cohort. Those eligible had 
seizure onset at 1 month to 16 years between 1977 and 1985, normal intelligence, 
≥10 years of follow-up, only focal seizures and no benign epilepsy syndromes. 
There were 108 patients with partial complex with or without secondary 
generalization as the only seizure type(s) throughout (partial complex group) 
and 80 with secondary generalization as the only seizure type (secondary 
generalization group). Average age ± standard deviation at onset was 7.3 ± 4.5 
years and follow-up was 27.9 ± 5.4 years. At follow-up, 57% of the partial 
complex group were in remission versus 81% of the secondary generalization group 
(P = 0.001). The partial complex group was more likely to be intractable or have 
undergone epilepsy surgery (36% versus 5%, P = 0.000). In the partial complex 
group, 28% had <5 years seizure free versus 5% in the secondary generalized 
group (P = 0.000). More patients in the partial complex group had undergone 
mental health assessments (59% versus 32%, P = 0.000), and 33% had a psychiatric 
diagnosis versus 15% in the secondary generalized group (P = 0.004). More 
patients with partial complex seizures had specific learning disorders (63% 
versus 45%, P = 0.03). Seven markers of poor social outcome were more common in 
patients with partial complex seizures (>2 markers: 34% versus 10%, P = 0.000). 
During 25-30 years of follow-up, >50% of intellectually normal patients with 
childhood-onset partial complex seizures had difficult-to-control seizures and 
learning and psychiatric/social problems. Most with secondary generalized 
seizures only had remission and better academic and psychiatric/social outcomes.

DOI: 10.1093/brain/aws352
PMID: 23378221 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


337. Forensic Sci Int. 2013 Mar 10;226(1-3):1-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.forsciint.2013.01.003. Epub 2013 Feb 4.

The use of forensic case data in intelligence-led policing: the example of drug 
profiling.

Morelato M(1), Beavis A, Tahtouh M, Ribaux O, Kirkbride P, Roux C.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Forensic Science, University of Technology, Sydney, Broadway, NSW, 
Australia.

To date, forensic science has predominantly focused on generating evidence for 
judicial proceedings. While many recognise its broader and important 
contribution to the initial stages of the forensic process, resources do not 
seem to be employed efficiently. It is often discovered retrospectively that 
necessary information was previously available in a database or within existing 
files. Such information could have been proactively used in order to solve a 
particular case, a number of linked cases or better understand the criminal 
activity as a whole. This article reviews this broader contribution of forensic 
science, with a particular emphasis on drug intelligence at the Australian 
Federal Police (AFP) in Australia. Using the AFP as a model organisation, an 
overview of the current situation and the contribution of physical and chemical 
profiling are first discussed. The situation in Europe, and in particular in 
Switzerland, is also presented. It is argued that a change of attitude towards a 
more intelligence-led perspective is required in forensic science in general, 
and in drug profiling in particular.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.forsciint.2013.01.003
PMID: 23379982 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


338. Sci Justice. 2013 Mar;53(1):60-6. doi: 10.1016/j.scijus.2012.06.001. Epub 2012 
Jun 20.

Automated shape annotation for illicit tablet preparations: a contour angle 
based classification from digital images.

Lopatka M(1), van Houten W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Illicit Drugs, Laan van Ypenburg 6, GB The Hague, The 
Netherlands. m.lopatka@nfi.minvenj.nls

In order to facilitate forensic intelligence efforts in managing large 
collections of physical feature data pertaining to illicit tablets, we have 
developed an automated shape classification method. This approach performs 
categorical shape annotation for the domain of illicit tablets. It is invariant 
to scale, rotation and translation and operates on digital images of seized 
tablets. The approach employs two processing levels. The first (coarse) level is 
being based on comparing the contour curvature space of tablet pairs. The second 
(fine) level is a rule based approach, implemented as a classification tree, 
that exploits characteristic similarities of shape categories. Annotation is 
demonstrated over a collection of 169 tablets selected for their diverse shapes 
with an accuracy of 97.6% when 19 shape categories are defined.

Copyright © 2012 Forensic Science Society. Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scijus.2012.06.001
PMID: 23380064


339. Arch Clin Neuropsychol. 2013 Jun;28(4):356-62. doi: 10.1093/arclin/act006. Epub 
2013 Feb 3.

Math anxiety differentially affects WAIS-IV arithmetic performance in 
undergraduates.

Buelow MT(1), Frakey LL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, The Ohio State University Newark, Newark, OH 43055, 
USA. buelow.11@osu.edu

Previous research has shown that math anxiety can influence the math performance 
level; however, to date, it is unknown whether math anxiety influences 
performance on working memory tasks during neuropsychological evaluation. In the 
present study, 172 undergraduate students completed measures of math achievement 
(the Math Computation subtest from the Wide Range Achievement Test-IV), math 
anxiety (the Math Anxiety Rating Scale-Revised), general test anxiety (from the 
Adult Manifest Anxiety Scale-College version), and the three Working Memory 
Index tasks from the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-IV Edition (WAIS-IV; 
Digit Span [DS], Arithmetic, Letter-Number Sequencing [LNS]). Results indicated 
that math anxiety predicted performance on Arithmetic, but not DS or LNS, above 
and beyond the effects of gender, general test anxiety, and math performance 
level. Our findings suggest that math anxiety can negatively influence WAIS-IV 
working memory subtest scores. Implications for clinical practice include the 
utilization of LNS in individuals expressing high math anxiety.

DOI: 10.1093/arclin/act006
PMID: 23380810 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


340. J Autism Dev Disord. 2013 Oct;43(10):2259-68. doi: 10.1007/s10803-013-1772-4.

Practice makes improvement: how adults with autism out-perform others in a 
naturalistic visual search task.

Gonzalez C(1), Martin JM, Minshew NJ, Behrmann M.

Author information:
(1)Dynamic Decision Making Laboratory, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, 
PA, 15213, USA, coty@cmu.edu.

People with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) often exhibit superior performance in 
visual search compared to others. However, most studies demonstrating this 
advantage have employed simple, uncluttered images with fully visible targets. 
We compare the performance of high-functioning adults with ASD and matched 
controls on a naturalistic luggage screening task. Although the two groups were 
equally accurate in detecting targets, the ASD adults improve in their correct 
elimination of target-absent bags faster than controls. This feature of their 
behavior is extremely important for many real-world monitoring tasks that 
require sustained attention for long time periods. Further analyses suggest that 
this improvement is attributable neither to the motor speed nor to the level of 
intelligence of the adults with ASD. These findings may have possible 
implications for employment opportunities of adult individuals with ASD.

DOI: 10.1007/s10803-013-1772-4
PMID: 23381483 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


341. J Autism Dev Disord. 2013 Sep;43(9):2233-7. doi: 10.1007/s10803-013-1774-2.

Brief report: is cognitive rehabilitation needed in verbal adults with autism? 
Insights from initial enrollment in a trial of cognitive enhancement therapy.

Eack SM(1), Bahorik AL, Hogarty SS, Greenwald DP, Litschge MY, Mazefsky CA, 
Minshew NJ.

Author information:
(1)School of Social Work, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA 15260, USA. 
sme12@pitt.edu

Cognitive rehabilitation is an emerging set of potentially effective 
interventions for the treatment of autism spectrum disorder, yet the 
applicability of these approaches for "high functioning" adults who have 
normative levels of intelligence remains unexplored. This study examined the 
initial cognitive performance characteristics of 40 verbal adults with autism 
enrolled in a pilot trial of Cognitive Enhancement Therapy to investigate the 
need for cognitive rehabilitation in this population. Results revealed marked 
and broad deficits across neurocognitive and social-cognitive domains, despite 
above-average IQ. Areas of greatest impairment included processing speed, 
cognitive flexibility, and emotion perception and management. These findings 
indicate the need for comprehensive interventions designed to enhance cognition 
among verbal adults with autism who have intact intellectual functioning.

DOI: 10.1007/s10803-013-1774-2
PMCID: PMC3686872
PMID: 23381484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


342. PLoS One. 2013;8(1):e54651. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0054651. Epub 2013 Jan 30.

Adolescents' functional numeracy is predicted by their school entry number 
system knowledge.

Geary DC(1), Hoard MK, Nugent L, Bailey DH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychological Sciences, University of Missouri, Columbia, 
Missouri, USA. GearyD@Missouri.edu

One in five adults in the United States is functionally innumerate; they do not 
possess the mathematical competencies needed for many modern jobs. We 
administered functional numeracy measures used in studies of young adults' 
employability and wages to 180 thirteen-year-olds. The adolescents began the 
study in kindergarten and participated in multiple assessments of intelligence, 
working memory, mathematical cognition, achievement, and in-class attentive 
behavior. Their number system knowledge at the beginning of first grade was 
defined by measures that assessed knowledge of the systematic relations among 
Arabic numerals and skill at using this knowledge to solve arithmetic problems. 
Early number system knowledge predicted functional numeracy more than six years 
later (ß = 0.195, p = .0014) controlling for intelligence, working memory, 
in-class attentive behavior, mathematical achievement, demographic and other 
factors, but skill at using counting procedures to solve arithmetic problems did 
not. In all, we identified specific beginning of schooling numerical knowledge 
that contributes to individual differences in adolescents' functional numeracy 
and demonstrated that performance on mathematical achievement tests 
underestimates the importance of this early knowledge.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0054651
PMCID: PMC3559782
PMID: 23382934 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


343. PLoS One. 2013;8(1):e55208. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0055208. Epub 2013 Jan 30.

No effect of genome-wide copy number variation on measures of intelligence in a 
New Zealand birth cohort.

Bagshaw AT(1), Horwood LJ, Liu Y, Fergusson DM, Sullivan PF, Kennedy MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Otago, Christchurch, New Zealand. 
andrew.bagshaw@gmail.com

Variation in human intelligence is approximately 50% heritable, but 
understanding of the genes involved is limited. Several forms of genetic 
variation remain under-studied in relation to intelligence, one of which is copy 
number variation (CNV). Using single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) -based 
microarrays, we genotyped CNVs genome-wide in a birth cohort of 723 New 
Zealanders, and correlated them with four intelligence-related phenotypes. We 
found no significant association for any common CNV after false discovery 
correction, which is consistent with previous work. In contrast to a previous 
study, however, we found no effect on any cognitive measure of rare CNV burden, 
defined as total number of bases inserted or deleted in CNVs rarer than 5%. We 
discuss possible reasons for this failure to replicate, including interaction 
between CNV and aging in determining the effects of rare CNVs. While our results 
suggest that no CNV assayable by SNP chips contributes more than a very small 
amount to variation in human intelligence, it remains possible that common CNVs 
in segmental duplication arrays, which are not well covered by SNP chips, are 
important contributors.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0055208
PMCID: PMC3559383
PMID: 23383111 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


344. J Pharm Biomed Anal. 2014 Jan;87:167-75. doi: 10.1016/j.jpba.2013.01.009. Epub 
2013 Jan 11.

Understanding and fighting the medicine counterfeit market.

Dégardin K(1), Roggo Y, Margot P.

Author information:
(1)F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd., Basel, Switzerland; Institute of Forensic Science, 
School of Criminal Sciences, University of Lausanne, Switzerland. Electronic 
address: klara.degardin@roche.com.

Medicine counterfeiting is a serious worldwide issue, involving networks of 
manufacture and distribution that are an integral part of industrialized 
organized crime. Despite the potentially devastating health repercussions 
involved, legal sanctions are often inappropriate or simply not applied. The 
difficulty in agreeing on a definition of counterfeiting, the huge profits made 
by the counterfeiters and the complexity of the market are the other main 
reasons for the extent of the phenomenon. Above all, international cooperation 
is needed to thwart the spread of counterfeiting. Moreover effort is urgently 
required on the legal, enforcement and scientific levels. Pharmaceutical 
companies and agencies have developed measures to protect the medicines and 
allow fast and reliable analysis of the suspect products. Several means, 
essentially based on chromatography and spectroscopy, are now at the disposal of 
the analysts to enable the distinction between genuine and counterfeit products. 
However the determination of the components and the use of analytical data for 
forensic purposes still constitute a challenge. The aim of this review article 
is therefore to point out the intricacy of medicine counterfeiting so that a 
better understanding can provide solutions to fight more efficiently against it.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpba.2013.01.009
PMID: 23384475 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


345. Schizophr Res. 2013 Apr;145(1-3):95-100. doi: 10.1016/j.schres.2012.12.026. Epub 
2013 Feb 4.

Assessment of real-world daily-living skills in early-onset schizophrenia trough 
the Life Skills Profile scale.

Puig O(1), Penadés R, Baeza I, De la Serna E, Sánchez-Gistau V, Lázaro L, 
Bernardo M, Castro-Fornieles J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry and Psychology, SGR 1119, 
Hospital Clínic Universitari, Barcelona, Spain. opuig@clinic.ub.es

BACKGROUND: Adolescents with early-onset schizophrenia (EOS) have marked 
deficits in their functional outcome. However, few short and reliable 
instruments for assessing real-world functioning have been specifically 
validated in EOS. The Life Skills Profile (LSP) is a brief scale widely used in 
schizophrenia and considered one of the optimal instruments for assessing 
real-world daily living skills. The purpose of this study was to examine the 
usefulness and the feasibility of the LSP to assess daily living skills in EOS.
METHODS: The sample included 53 clinically and pharmacologically stabilized 
adolescent patients with EOS and 53 healthy adolescents. Content review of the 
scale and internal consistency analysis were conducted in the EOS group. A 
subgroup of 30 patients was re-assessed over a 10-day interval to establish the 
test-retest reliability. Measures of functional outcome were used to assess 
convergent validity, and measures of intelligence and symptoms were used to 
assess divergent validity. Discriminant validity was analyzed through logistic 
analysis and the receiver-operating characteristic curve.
RESULTS: The LSP and its subscales showed high reliability, adequate internal 
consistency and adequate convergent and divergent validity. The LSP was also 
found to be a sensitive instrument for detecting differences between patients 
and healthy adolescents, correctly classifying 84% of the sample. The estimated 
area under the curve was 0.925 (95% CI 0.875-0.976).
CONCLUSIONS: The LSP showed adequate psychometric characteristics in adolescents 
with EOS and appeared to be a valid, reliable and time-efficient instrument for 
use in clinical practice and research settings to assess real-world daily-living 
skills in EOS.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.schres.2012.12.026
PMID: 23384737 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


346. Rev Psiquiatr Salud Ment. 2013 Jul-Sep;6(3):109-20. doi: 
10.1016/j.rpsm.2012.12.001. Epub 2013 Feb 4.

Borderline intellectual functioning: consensus and good practice guidelines.

[Article in English, Spanish]

Salvador-Carulla L(1), García-Gutiérrez JC, Ruiz Gutiérrez-Colosía M, 
Artigas-Pallarès J, García Ibáñez J, González Pérez J, Nadal Pla M, Aguilera 
Inés F, Isus S, Cereza JM, Poole M, Portero Lazcano G, Monzón P, Leiva M, 
Parellada M, García Nonell K, Martínez I Hernández A, Rigau E, Martínez-Leal R.

Author information:
(1)Unidad de Investigación en Discapacidad Intelectual y Trastornos del 
Desarrollo, Fundació Villablanca, IISPV, CIBERSAM, Reus, España.

INTRODUCTION: The Borderline Intellectual Functioning (BIF) is conceptualized as 
the frontier that delimits "normal" intellectual functioning from intellectual 
disability (IQ 71-85). In spite of its magnitude, its prevalence cannot be 
quantified and its diagnosis has not yet been defined.
OBJECTIVES: To elaborate a conceptual framework and to establish consensus 
guidelines.
METHOD: A mixed qualitative methodology, including frame analysis and nominal 
groups techniques, was used. The literature was extensively reviewed in evidence 
based medical databases, scientific publications, and the grey literature. This 
information was studied and a framing document was prepared.
RESULTS: Scientific publications covering BIF are scarce. The term that yields a 
bigger number of results is "Borderline Intelligence". The Working Group 
detected a number of areas in which consensus was needed and wrote a consensus 
document covering the conclusions of the experts and the framing document.
CONCLUSIONS: It is a priority to reach an international consensus about the BIF 
construct and its operative criteria, as well as to develop specific tools for 
screening and diagnosis. It is also necessary to define criteria that enable its 
incidence and prevalence. To know what interventions are the most efficient, and 
what are the needs of this population, is vital to implement an integral model 
of care centred on the individual.

Copyright © 2011 SEP y SEPB. Published by Elsevier Espana. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rpsm.2012.12.001
PMID: 23384877 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


347. J Anesth. 2013 Aug;27(4):493-9. doi: 10.1007/s00540-013-1566-z. Epub 2013 Feb 6.

Prognostic study of sevoflurane-based general anesthesia on cognitive function 
in children.

Fan Q(1), Cai Y, Chen K, Li W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, Eye & ENT Hospital of Fudan University, 83 
Fenyang Rd, Xuhui District, Shanghai, 200031, China.

PURPOSE: It is unclear whether volatile general anesthetics have sustained 
adverse effects on the immature brains of children. We performed a 
self-controlled study to evaluate the effects of strabismus surgery under 
sevoflurane-based general anesthesia on the cognitive function of pediatric 
patients.
METHODS: The study included 100 children of ages 4 to 7 years old scheduled to 
undergo strabismus correction under sevoflurane-based general anesthesia. 
Cognitive function was tested 1 day before the operation (T1), 1 month after the 
operation (T2), and 6 months after the operation by the Wechsler Preschool and 
Primary Scale of Intelligence (WPPSI) (Third Edition) method, which consists of 
150 items. The scores at T1 were compared with scores at T2 and T3.
RESULTS: Seventy-two children completed the three tests. At T1, they were 66.1 ± 
7.7 months old and had a mean body weight of 21.6 ± 4.0 kg. The mean anesthesia 
time was 67.3 ± 9.8 min. The mean interval between T1 and T2 was 25.4 ± 6.8 
days, and that between T1 and T3 was 182.1 ± 27.7 days. No statistically 
significant decrease in WPPSI scores was observed between T1 and T2, or between 
T1 and T3.
CONCLUSION: These findings from our self-controlled study show that 
sevoflurane-based general anesthesia does not have significantly adverse effects 
on the cognitive function of 4- to 7-year-old children at 1 month and 6 months 
after strabismus surgery. Additional studies with a larger sample size are 
needed.

DOI: 10.1007/s00540-013-1566-z
PMID: 23386252 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


348. Neuropsychiatr Dis Treat. 2013;9:163-8. doi: 10.2147/NDT.S39687. Epub 2013 Jan 
29.

General versus executive cognitive ability in pupils with ADHD and with milder 
attention problems.

Ek U(1), Westerlund J, Fernell E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Special Education, Stockholm University, Stockholm.

BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to analyze two main types of cognitive 
domains in school children with different types and severities of 
attention-related problems. The cognitive domains examined were general 
cognitive ability and executive abilities.
METHODS: Three different clinical samples of pupils with school problems were 
analyzed to assess their cognitive Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children 
profiles. In particular, the general cognitive ability index and the executive 
markers (ie, verbal memory index and processing speed index) were of interest. 
Of the total sample (n = 198), two main groups were contrasted; one met the full 
criteria for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)/subthreshold ADHD, 
and one was comprised of those with milder attention problems, insufficient to 
meet the criteria for ADHD/subthreshold ADHD.
RESULTS: It could be demonstrated that both groups had a significantly higher 
score on the general cognitive ability index than on measures of working memory 
and processing speed. This difference was more pronounced for boys.
CONCLUSION: These types of cognitive differences need to be considered in 
children with different kinds of learning, behavior, and attention problems; 
this is also true for children presenting with an average general intelligence 
quotient and with milder attention problems. Current educational expectations 
are demanding for children with mild difficulties, and such cognitive 
information will add to the understanding of the child's learning problems, 
hopefully leading to a better adapted education than that conventionally 
available.

DOI: 10.2147/NDT.S39687
PMCID: PMC3563345
PMID: 23386788


349. Genes Brain Behav. 2013 Apr;12(3):348-52. doi: 10.1111/gbb.12024. Epub 2013 Mar 
7.

Apolipoprotein E, brain injury and neurodevelopmental outcome of children.

Korja M(1), Ylijoki M, Lapinleimu H, Pohjola P, Matomäki J, Kuśmierek H, Mahlman 
M, Rikalainen H, Parkkola R, Kaukola T, Lehtonen L, Hallman M, Haataja L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Helsinki University Central Hospital, Helsinki, 
Finland. mkorja@mqneurosurgery.com

Apolipoprotein E plays an important role in neurodegenerative processes in 
adulthood, whereas its neurodevelopmental role is uncertain. We aimed to study 
the effect of apolipoprotein E on neurodevelopment in a cohort liable to 
neurodevelopmental changes. The cohort consisted of very preterm (<32 
gestational weeks) and/or very low birth weight (<1500 g) children, and the 
longitudinal follow-up protocol included sequential cranial ultrasounds during 
infancy, brain magnetic resonance imaging at term-equivalent age, neurological 
and cognitive assessment (Mental Developmental Index) at the corrected age of 2 
years and cognitive and neuropsychological assessments (Wechsler Preschool and 
Primary Scale of Intelligence and Developmental NEuroPSYchological Assessment) 
at the chronological age of 5 years. Apolipoprotein E genotypes were determined 
from 322 children. Ultrasound and magnetic resonance imaging data were available 
for 321 (99.7%) and 151 (46.9%) children, respectively. Neurodevelopmental 
assessment data were available for 138 (42.9%) to 171 (53.1%) children. Abnormal 
findings in ultrasounds and magnetic resonance imaging were found in 163 (50.8%) 
and 64 (42.4%) children, respectively. Mild cognitive delay at the corrected age 
of 2 years and the chronological age of 5 years was suspected in 21 (12.3%) of 
171 and 19 (13.8%) of 138 children, respectively. In the Developmental 
NEuroPSYchological Assessment, 47 (32.6%) of 144 children had significantly 
impaired performances in more than one study subtest. No associations between 
the apolipoprotein E genotypes and imaging findings or measured 
neurodevelopmental variables were found. Apolipoprotein E genotypes do not 
appear to have major impact on brain vulnerability or neurodevelopment in 
children.

Genes, Brain and Behavior © 2013 Blackwell Publishing Ltd and International 
Behavioural and Neural Genetics Society.

DOI: 10.1111/gbb.12024
PMID: 23387365 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


350. Am J Epidemiol. 2013 Mar 1;177(5):402-10. doi: 10.1093/aje/kws239. Epub 2013 Feb 
6.

Associations of maternal weight gain in pregnancy with offspring cognition in 
childhood and adolescence: findings from the Avon Longitudinal Study of Parents 
and Children.

Gage SH(1), Lawlor DA, Tilling K, Fraser A.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Causal Analyses in Translational Epidemiology, School of Social 
and Community Medicine, Bristol, United Kingdom. suzi.gage@bristol.ac.uk

An association of gestational weight gain (GWG) with offspring cognition has 
been postulated. We used data from the Avon Longitudinal Study of Parents and 
Children, a United Kingdom prospective cohort (1990 through the present) with a 
median of 10 maternal weight measurements in pregnancy. These were used to 
allocate participants to 2009 Institute of Medicine weight-gain categories and 
in random effect linear spline models. Outcomes were School Entry Assessment 
score (age, 4 years; n = 5,832), standardized intelligence quotient assessed by 
Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children (age, 8 years; n = 5,191), and school 
final-examination results (age, 16 years; n = 7,339). Offspring of women who 
gained less weight than recommended had a 0.075 standard deviation lower mean 
School Entry Assessment score (95% confidence interval: -0.127, -0.023) and were 
less likely to achieve adequate final-examination results (odds ratio = 0.88, 
95% confidence interval: 0.78, 0.99) compared with offspring of women who gained 
as recommended. GWG in early pregnancy (defined as 0-18 weeks on the basis of a 
knot point at 18 weeks) and midpregnancy (defined as 18-28 weeks on the basis of 
knot points at 18 and 28 weeks) was positively associated with School Entry 
Assessment score and intelligence quotient. GWG in late pregnancy (defined as 28 
weeks onward on the basis of a knot point at 28 weeks) was positively associated 
with offspring intelligence quotient and with increased odds of offspring 
achieving adequate final-examination results in mothers who were overweight 
prepregnancy. Findings support small positive associations between GWG and 
offspring cognitive development, which may have lasting effects on educational 
attainment up to age 16 years.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/kws239
PMCID: PMC3581073
PMID: 23388581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


351. Hum Mol Genet. 2013 May 15;22(10):1960-70. doi: 10.1093/hmg/ddt043. Epub 2013 
Feb 5.

Homozygous and heterozygous disruptions of ANK3: at the crossroads of 
neurodevelopmental and psychiatric disorders.

Iqbal Z(1), Vandeweyer G, van der Voet M, Waryah AM, Zahoor MY, Besseling JA, 
Roca LT, Vulto-van Silfhout AT, Nijhof B, Kramer JM, Van der Aa N, Ansar M, 
Peeters H, Helsmoortel C, Gilissen C, Vissers LE, Veltman JA, de Brouwer AP, 
Frank Kooy R, Riazuddin S, Schenck A, van Bokhoven H, Rooms L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Genetics, Nijmegen Centre for Molecular Life Sciences, 
Donders Institute for Brain, Cognitionand Behaviour, Radboud University Medical 
Centre, Nijmegen, TheNetherlands.

AnkyrinG, encoded by the ANK3 gene, is involved in neuronal development and 
signaling. It has previously been implicated in bipolar disorder and 
schizophrenia by association studies. Most recently, de novo missense mutations 
in this gene were identified in autistic patients. However, the causative nature 
of these mutations remained controversial. Here, we report inactivating 
mutations in the Ankyrin 3 (ANK3) gene in patients with severe cognitive 
deficits. In a patient with a borderline intelligence, severe attention deficit 
hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), autism and sleeping problems, all isoforms of the 
ANK3 gene, were disrupted by a balanced translocation. Furthermore, in a 
consanguineous family with moderate intellectual disability (ID), an ADHD-like 
phenotype and behavioral problems, we identified a homozygous truncating 
frameshift mutation in the longest isoform of the same gene, which represents 
the first reported familial mutation in the ANK3 gene. The causality of ANK3 
mutations in the two families and the role of the gene in cognitive function 
were supported by memory defects in a Drosophila knockdown model. Thus we 
demonstrated that ANK3 plays a role in intellectual functioning. In addition, 
our findings support the suggested association of ANK3 with various 
neuropsychiatric disorders and illustrate the genetic and molecular relation 
between a wide range of neurodevelopmental disorders.

DOI: 10.1093/hmg/ddt043
PMID: 23390136 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


352. J Nutr. 2013 Apr;143(4):500-4. doi: 10.3945/jn.112.166165. Epub 2013 Feb 6.

Serum folate but not vitamin B-12 concentrations are positively associated with 
cognitive test scores in children aged 6-16 years.

Nguyen CT(1), Gracely EJ, Lee BK.

Author information:
(1)Drexel University, School of Public Health, Philadelphia, PA, USA.

Folate and vitamin B-12 are important for nervous system functioning at all 
ages, with important roles in functions such as neurotransmitter synthesis. 
Although studies suggest a relation between folate and vitamin B-12 and 
cognitive function in the elderly population, there is relatively less evidence 
regarding these vitamins and children's cognitive function. The purpose of the 
study was to examine the associations of serum folate and vitamin B-12 with 
cognitive performance in children 6-16 y old in the NHANES III, conducted from 
1988 to 1994, prior to the implementation of folic acid fortification. A 
cross-sectional analysis was conducted using data on 5365 children 6-16 y old 
from NHANES III. Serum folate and vitamin B-12 concentrations were measured, 
along with performance, on the Wide Range Achievement Test-Revised and the 
Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children-Revised. Associations of B vitamins 
with cognitive performance were assessed using linear regression models adjusted 
for various covariates. Higher serum concentrations of folate were associated 
with higher reading and block design scores after adjusting for various 
covariates. For example, compared with the lowest quartile of folate, children 
in the highest quartile scored 3.28 points or 0.19 SD units higher on the 
reading test (P < 0.05). Vitamin B-12 was not associated with any of the test 
scores. In the largest study to date, higher folate concentrations were 
associated with better reading and block design scores. These associations 
appear to be biologically plausible and merit further study.

DOI: 10.3945/jn.112.166165
PMID: 23390191 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


353. PLoS One. 2013;8(2):e55347. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0055347. Epub 2013 Feb 4.

Topological organization of functional brain networks in healthy children: 
differences in relation to age, sex, and intelligence.

Wu K(1), Taki Y, Sato K, Hashizume H, Sassa Y, Takeuchi H, Thyreau B, He Y, 
Evans AC, Li X, Kawashima R, Fukuda H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nuclear Medicine and Radiology, Institute of Development, Aging 
and Cancer, Tohoku University, Sendai, Japan. kai.wu.22@gmail.com

Recent studies have demonstrated developmental changes of functional brain 
networks derived from functional connectivity using graph theoretical analysis, 
which has been rapidly translated to studies of brain network organization. 
However, little is known about sex- and IQ-related differences in the 
topological organization of functional brain networks during development. In 
this study, resting-state fMRI (rs-fMRI) was used to map the functional brain 
networks in 51 healthy children. We then investigated the effects of age, sex, 
and IQ on economic small-world properties and regional nodal properties of the 
functional brain networks. At a global level of whole networks, we found 
significant age-related increases in the small-worldness and local efficiency, 
significant higher values of the global efficiency in boys compared with girls, 
and no significant IQ-related difference. Age-related increases in the regional 
nodal properties were found predominately in the frontal brain regions, whereas 
the parietal, temporal, and occipital brain regions showed age-related 
decreases. Significant sex-related differences in the regional nodal properties 
were found in various brain regions, primarily related to the default mode, 
language, and vision systems. Positive correlations between IQ and the regional 
nodal properties were found in several brain regions related to the attention 
system, whereas negative correlations were found in various brain regions 
primarily involved in the default mode, emotion, and language systems. Together, 
our findings of the network topology of the functional brain networks in healthy 
children and its relationship with age, sex, and IQ bring new insights into the 
understanding of brain maturation and cognitive development during childhood and 
adolescence.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0055347
PMCID: PMC3563524
PMID: 23390528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: One of the co-authors (Dr. 
Yong He) currently serves as an editor for PLOS ONE. This does not alter the 
authors' adherence to all the PLOS ONE policies on sharing data and materials.


354. Arch Clin Neuropsychol. 2013 Jun;28(4):363-74. doi: 10.1093/arclin/acs141. Epub 
2013 Feb 7.

Predictors of neuropsychological change in patients with chronic myelogenous 
leukemia and myelodysplastic syndrome.

Meadows ME(1), Chang G, Jones JA, Antin JR, Orav EJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cognitive and Behavioral Neurology, Brigham and Women's Hospital, 
Boston, MA 02115, USA. mmeadows@partners.org

This study examined the course of neuropsychological functioning in patients 
with chronic myelogeous leukemia (n = 91) or myelodysplastic syndrome (n = 15) 
who underwent standard treatment for their disease or allogeneic hematopoietic 
stem cell transplantation (HSCT) at baseline, 12 months, and 18 months 
post-treatment. At baseline, 23% of the participants (n = 75) in the 
longitudinal sample had Z-scores on at least one of the neuropsychological tests 
that were <1.4. Participants in the study showed improvement over baseline at 
the 12 and 18 months assessments. The average Z-scores for the six cognitive 
domains in the longitudinal data set over the course of the study ranged from 
-0.89 to 0.59. Significant predictors of change in neuropsychological test 
scores included age, with older participants showing less improvement over time. 
Other predictors included baseline cognitive domains (language, memory, and 
attention), previous cocaine use, disease status, intelligence quotient, and 
quality of life measures. Findings support previous studies in patients with 
hematological malignancies who showed cognitive impairments at baseline prior to 
HSCT. However, there was little evidence for further cognitive decline over the 
course of 18 months.

DOI: 10.1093/arclin/acs141
PMCID: PMC3656510
PMID: 23391504 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


355. Dement Geriatr Cogn Disord. 2013;35(1-2):98-105. doi: 10.1159/000346286. Epub 
2013 Feb 6.

Neuropsychological detection of the early stage of amnestic mild cognitive 
impairment without objective memory impairment.

Murayama N(1), Tagaya H, Ota K, Fujishiro H, Manabe Y, Sato K, Isek E.

Author information:
(1)PET/CT Dementia Research Center, Juntendo Tokyo Koto Geriatric Medical 
Center, Juntendo University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan. 
n-mura@kitasato-u.ac.jp

AIM: We investigate the assessment method to detect the early stage of amnestic 
mild cognitive impairment (aMCI) using Wechsler Memory Scale - Revised (WMS-R) 
and Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale - Third Edition (WAIS-III).
METHODS: Three groups (normal group, aMCI group, and early aMCI group), 
controlled for age and years of education, underwent brain 
(18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography ((18)F-FDG PET), WAIS-III, 
WMS-R, and other tests. The early aMCI group does not fulfill the clinical 
diagnostic criteria of aMCI because patients do not have objective memory 
impairment, but their clinical symptoms and results of (18)F-FDG PET indicate 
that they should be included in the category of aMCI.
RESULTS: The discrepancy of scores between Verbal IQ and General Memory had the 
highest accuracy in discriminating between normal and early aMCI groups.
CONCLUSION: The cutoff point determined in this study is useful to detect an 
early stage of aMCI, which may be distinguished from aMCI using the current 
criteria.

Copyright © 2013 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000346286
PMID: 23392179 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


356. Brain Struct Funct. 2014 Mar;219(2):485-94. doi: 10.1007/s00429-013-0512-z. Epub 
2013 Feb 8.

Architecture of fluid intelligence and working memory revealed by lesion 
mapping.

Barbey AK(1), Colom R, Paul EJ, Grafman J.

Author information:
(1)Decision Neuroscience Laboratory, University of Illinois, Champaign, IL, USA, 
barbey@illinois.edu.

Although cognitive neuroscience has made valuable progress in understanding the 
role of the prefrontal cortex in human intelligence, the functional networks 
that support adaptive behavior and novel problem solving remain to be well 
characterized. Here, we studied 158 human brain lesion patients to investigate 
the cognitive and neural foundations of key competencies for fluid intelligence 
and working memory. We administered a battery of neuropsychological tests, 
including the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale (WAIS) and the N-Back task. 
Latent variable modeling was applied to obtain error-free scores of fluid 
intelligence and working memory, followed by voxel-based lesion-symptom mapping 
to elucidate their neural substrates. The observed latent variable modeling and 
lesion results support an integrative framework for understanding the 
architecture of fluid intelligence and working memory and make specific 
recommendations for the interpretation and application of the WAIS and N-Back 
task to the study of fluid intelligence in health and disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s00429-013-0512-z
PMID: 23392844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


357. Early Hum Dev. 2013 Apr;89(4):257-62. doi: 10.1016/j.earlhumdev.2013.01.006. 
Epub 2013 Feb 8.

Regular breakfast consumption is associated with increased IQ in kindergarten 
children.

Liu J(1), Hwang WT, Dickerman B, Compher C.

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA. 
jhliu@nursing.upenn.edu

BACKGROUND: Studies have documented a positive relationship between regular 
breakfast consumption and cognitive outcomes in youth. However, most of these 
studies have emphasized specific measures of cognition rather than cognitive 
performance as a broad construct (e.g., IQ test scores) and have been limited to 
Western samples of school-age children and adolescents. This study aims to 
extend the literature on breakfast consumption and cognition by examining these 
constructs in a sample of Chinese kindergarten-age children.
METHODS: This cross-sectional study consisted of a sample of 1269 children (697 
boys and 572 girls) aged 6 years from the Chinese city of Jintan. Cognition was 
assessed with the Chinese version of the Wechsler preschool and primary scale of 
intelligence-revised. Breakfast habits were assessed through parental 
questionnaire. Analyses of variance and linear regression models were used to 
analyze the association between breakfast habits and IQ. Socioeconomic and 
parental psychosocial variables related to intelligence were controlled for.
RESULTS: Findings showed that children who regularly have breakfast on a 
near-daily basis had significantly higher full scale, verbal, and performance IQ 
test scores (all p<0.001) compared to children who "sometimes" have breakfast. 
This relationship persisted for VIQ (verbal IQ) and FIQ (full IQ) even after 
adjusting for gender, current living location, parental education, parental 
occupation, and primary child caregiver.
CONCLUSION: Findings may reflect nutritional as well as social benefits of 
regular breakfast consumption on cognition, and regular breakfast consumption 
should be encouraged among young children.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.earlhumdev.2013.01.006
PMCID: PMC3606659
PMID: 23395328 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICT OF INTEREST STATEMENT The authors have 
declared that no competing interests exist.


358. Psychol Assess. 2013 Jun;25(2):477-83. doi: 10.1037/a0031653. Epub 2013 Feb 11.

Long-term stability of the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children--Fourth 
Edition.

Watkins MW(1), Smith LG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Educational Psychology, Baylor University, Waco, TX 76798-7301, 
USA. marley_watkins@baylor.edu

Long-term stability of the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children-Fourth 
Edition (WISC-IV; Wechsler, 2003) was investigated with a sample of 344 students 
from 2 school districts twice evaluated for special education eligibility at an 
average interval of 2.84 years. Test-retest reliability coefficients for the 
Verbal Comprehension Index (VCI), Perceptual Reasoning Index (PRI), Working 
Memory Index (WMI), Processing Speed Index (PSI), and the Full Scale IQ (FSIQ) 
were .72, .76, .66, .65, and .82, respectively. As predicted, the test-retest 
reliability coefficients for the subtests (Mdn = .56) were generally lower than 
the index scores (Mdn = .69) and the FSIQ (.82). On average, subtest scores did 
not differ by more than 1 point, and index scores did not differ by more than 2 
points across the test-retest interval. However, 25% of the students earned FSIQ 
scores that differed by 10 or more points, and 29%, 39%, 37%, and 44% of the 
students earned VCI, PRI, WMI, and PSI scores, respectively, that varied by 10 
or more points. Given this variability, it cannot be assumed that WISC-IV scores 
will be consistent across long test-retest intervals for individual students.

PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2013 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/a0031653
PMID: 23397927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


359. Appl Neuropsychol Adult. 2013;20(2):83-94. doi: 10.1080/09084282.2012.670167. 
Epub 2012 Nov 8.

WAIS-IV Digit Span variables: are they valuable for use in predicting TOMM and 
MSVT failure?

Whitney KA(1), Shepard PH, Davis JJ.

Author information:
(1)Psychiatry Department , Richard L. Roudebush Veterans Administration Medical 
Center, Indianapolis, IN 46202, USA. kriscinda.whitney@va.gov

The Digit Span (DS) task in the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Fourth Edition 
differs substantially from earlier versions of the measure, with one of the 
major changes being the addition of a sequencing component. In the present 
investigation, the usefulness of the new sequencing task and other DS variables 
(i.e., DS Age-Scaled Score, DS Forward Total, DS Backward Total, and Reliable 
DS) was investigated with regard to the ability of these variables to predict 
negative response bias. Negative response bias was first defined and examined 
using below-cutoff performance on the Test of Memory Malingering (TOMM) (N = 
99). Then, for comparison purposes, negative response bias was examined using 
below-cutoff performance on the Medical Symptom Validity Test (MSVT; N = 95). 
Study participants included primarily middle-aged outpatients at a Veterans 
Affairs medical center. Findings from this retrospective analysis showed that, 
regardless of whether the TOMM or the MSVT was used as the negative response 
bias criterion, of all the DS variables examined, DS Sequencing Total showed the 
best classification accuracy. Yet, due to its relatively low positive and 
negative predictive power, DS Sequencing Total is not recommended for use in 
isolation to identify negative response bias.

DOI: 10.1080/09084282.2012.670167
PMID: 23397994 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


360. Appl Neuropsychol Adult. 2013;20(2):120-35. doi: 10.1080/09084282.2012.690798. 
Epub 2012 Dec 5.

Factor structure of the Halstead-Reitan neuropsychological battery: a review and 
integration.

Ross SA(1), Allen DN, Goldstein G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Nevada, Las Vegas, NV 89154, USA.

The Halstead-Reitan Neuropsychological Battery (HRNB) was the first 
factor-analyzed neuropsychological battery. It was based on a series of tests 
studied in Ward Halstead's laboratory at the University of Chicago, was 
accomplished in collaboration with a group of eminent statisticians, and was 
published in 1947 . Four factors were extracted based on Halstead's tests called 
central integrative field, abstraction, power, and directional and constituted 
what was described as biological intelligence. Since this original analysis, 
Reitan's additions to the battery, and the proposal of Reitan and Wolfson's 
model of neuropsychological functioning, this factor-analytic research 
continued. This article reviews factor-analytic research concluding that 
Halstead's analysis has held up reasonably well and there is support for the 
Reitan and Wolfson model. However, Reitan's revisions of the battery added tests 
that form a distinct language factor and the sensory-perceptual tests that 
generally form a separate factor. Other tests and scoring methods used in 
individual studies modified the core battery and produced somewhat differing 
solutions. The complexity of the tests prevents the HRNB from being a 
factorially pure battery, and simple structure is rarely, if ever, reached. 
Current versions of the HRNB appear to evaluate both "biological" and 
"psychometric" intelligence, which appear to load on separate factors.

DOI: 10.1080/09084282.2012.690798
PMID: 23397998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


361. Appl Neuropsychol Adult. 2013;20(2):136-44. doi: 10.1080/09084282.2012.670154. 
Epub 2013 Jan 14.

Executive functions, depressive symptoms, and college adjustment in women.

Wingo J(1), Kalkut E, Tuminello E, Asconape J, Han SD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Loyola University Chicago, Chicago, IL, USA.

Many students have difficulty adjusting to college, and the contribution of 
academic and relational factors have been considered in previous research. In 
particular, depression commonly emerges among college women at this time and 
could be related to poor adjustment to college. This study examined the 
relationship between executive functions, depressive symptoms, and college 
adjustment in college women. Seventy-seven female participants from a midsize 
urban university completed the Wechsler Abbreviated Scale of Intelligence, 
College Adjustment Scale, Beck Depression Inventory-Second Edition, Behavior 
Rating Inventory of Executive Function-Adult Version, and four subtests from the 
Delis-Kaplan Executive Function System: the Trail-Making Test, Design Fluency 
Test, Verbal Fluency Test, and Color-Word Interference Test. After controlling 
for IQ score, hierarchical regression analyses showed that subjective and 
objective measures of executive functioning and depressive symptoms were 
significantly related to college adjustment problems in academic, relational, 
and psychological areas. The current study provides evidence for a relationship 
between cognitive abilities, psychiatric symptoms, and college adjustment.

DOI: 10.1080/09084282.2012.670154
PMID: 23397999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


362. Med Educ. 2013 Mar;47(3):317-25. doi: 10.1111/medu.12115.

Exploring the relationships among attachment, emotional intelligence and 
communication.

Cherry MG(1), Fletcher I, O'Sullivan H.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Excellence in Evidence-Based Learning and Teaching (CEEBLT), 
School of Medical Education, University of Liverpool, Liverpool, UK. 
m.g.cherry@liverpool.ac.uk

OBJECTIVES: Attachment style has been shown to influence both emotional 
intelligence (EI) and the clinical communication of medical students and 
doctors. No research has assessed the relationships among attachment, EI and 
clinical communication in medical students. This study was conducted to evaluate 
the effect of EI on the relationship between medical students' attachment style 
and clinical communication.
METHODS: Medical students were invited to complete measures of attachment (using 
the Experiences in Close Relationships-Short Form [ECR-SF], a 12-item measure 
that provides attachment avoidance and attachment anxiety dimensional scores) 
and EI (using the Mayer-Salovey-Caruso Emotional Intelligence Test [MSCEIT], a 
141-item measure of the perception, use, understanding and management of 
emotions) at the end of Year 1, prior to a summative objective structured 
clinical examination (OSCE). Clinical communication was assessed using OSCE 
scores. Structural equation modelling (SEM) was used to analyse a hypothetical 
model of the relationships among attachment style, EI and clinical 
communication.
RESULTS: A total of 200 of 358 (55.9%) students participated. Attachment 
avoidance was significantly negatively correlated with total EI scores (r=-0.28, 
p<0.01); total EI was significantly positively correlated with OSCE scores (r = 
0.23, p < 0.01). A parsimonious SEM revealed that attachment avoidance accounted 
for 13% of the variance in students' total EI scores but did not directly 
predict OSCE scores, whereas total EI significantly predicted 7% of the variance 
in OSCE scores.
CONCLUSIONS: Attachment is perceived to be stable from early adulthood, whereas 
the literature suggests that EI can be developed through the use of targeted 
interventions. This has potential implications for the training of medical 
students in clinical communication.

© Blackwell Publishing Ltd 2013.

DOI: 10.1111/medu.12115
PMID: 23398018 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


363. Sch Psychol Q. 2013 Jun;28(2):154-169. doi: 10.1037/spq0000010. Epub 2013 Feb 
11.

Investigating the structure of the WJ-III Cognitive at school age.

Dombrowski SC(1).

Author information:
(1)School Psychology Program, Department of Graduate Education, Counseling & 
Leadership, Rider University.

During its development, the Woodcock-Johnson, Third Edition Cognitive (WJ-III 
Cognitive; McGrew & Woodcock, 2001) was never subjected to structural analysis 
using exploratory and higher order factor analyses. Instead, confirmatory factor 
analyses were conducted on separate sets of WJ-III correlation matrices, 
yielding a seven-factor model across all age ranges. To see whether the 
structure holds for the WJ-III Cognitive, currently recognized best practice 
exploratory factor analysis (EFA) procedures were applied to two school-aged 
correlation matrices (ages 9-13; 14-19) from the normative sample. Using EFA and 
higher order factor analysis, four factors emerged at age 9 to 13 and three 
factors emerged at age 14 to 19. The results of this analysis indicated a robust 
manifestation of general intelligence (g) that exceeded the variance attributed 
to the lower order factors. An additional analysis was conducted that 
disregarded factor extraction rules and forced the seven-factor fit. The 
resulting solution was only partially aligned (i.e., Gc, Ga, and Gsm) with the 
theoretical structure posited in the WJ-III Technical Manual. Surprisingly, this 
study represents the first time to my knowledge that the WJ-III Cognitive has 
been subjected to EFA analyses given the instrument's significant use by 
practitioners and that it has served as the initial evidentiary base for 
Cattell-Horn-Carroll theory.

DOI: 10.1037/spq0000010
PMID: 23398149 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


364. Acta Paediatr. 2013 May;102(5):492-7. doi: 10.1111/apa.12191. Epub 2013 Mar 4.

Predictive value of neonatal brain MRI on the neurodevelopmental outcome of 
preterm infants by 5 years of age.

Setänen S(1), Haataja L, Parkkola R, Lind A, Lehtonen L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Neurology, Turku University Hospital, Turku, Finland. 
sirkku.a.setanen@utu.fi

AIM: To study the prognostic value of MRI in preterm infants at term equivalent 
age for cognitive development at 5 years of age.
METHODS: A total of 217 very low birth weight/very low gestational age infants 
who all received brain MRI at term equivalent age were categorized into 4 groups 
based on the brain MRI findings. Cognitive development was assessed at 5 years 
of chronological age by using a short form of Wechsler Preschool and Primary 
Scale of Intelligence - Revised. This information was combined with neurosensory 
diagnoses by 2 years of corrected age.
RESULTS: Of all infants 31 (17.0%) had Full Scale Intelligence Quotient (FSIQ) 
<85, 14 (6.5%) had cerebral palsy and 4 (1.8%) had severe hearing impairment. A 
total of 41 (22.0%) infants had some neurodevelopmental impairment at 5 years of 
age. Considering cognitive outcome (FSIQ <85), the positive predictive value of 
several major MRI pathologies was 43.8%, and the negative predictive value of 
normal finding or minor pathologies was 92.0% and 85.7%, respectively.
CONCLUSION: The MRI of the brain at term equivalent age may be valuable in 
predicting neurodevelopmental outcome in preterm infants by 5 years of age. The 
findings should always be interpreted alongside the clinical information of the 
infant. Furthermore, MRI should not replace a long-term clinical follow-up for 
very preterm infants.

©2013 The Author(s)/Acta Paediatrica ©2013 Foundation Acta Paediatrica.

DOI: 10.1111/apa.12191
PMID: 23398524 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


365. Dev Psychol. 2013 Nov;49(11):2040-6. doi: 10.1037/a0031840. Epub 2013 Feb 11.

Mothers' daily person and process praise: implications for children's theory of 
intelligence and motivation.

Pomerantz EM(1), Kempner SG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology.

This research examined if mothers' day-to-day praise of children's success in 
school plays a role in children's theory of intelligence and motivation. 
Participants were 120 children (mean age = 10.23 years) and their mothers who 
took part in a 2-wave study spanning 6 months. During the first wave, mothers 
completed a 10-day daily interview in which they reported on their use of person 
(e.g., "You are smart") and process (e.g., "You tried hard") praise. Children's 
entity theory of intelligence and preference for challenge in school were 
assessed with surveys at both waves. Mothers' person, but not process, praise 
was predictive of children's theory of intelligence and motivation: The more 
person praise mothers used, the more children subsequently held an entity theory 
of intelligence and avoided challenge over and above their earlier functioning 
on these dimensions.

DOI: 10.1037/a0031840
PMID: 23398552 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


366. Obesity (Silver Spring). 2013 Mar;21(3):434-40. doi: 10.1002/oby.20018.

Childhood intelligence and adult obesity.

Kanazawa S(1).

Author information:
(1)Managerial Economics and Strategy Group, Department of Management, London 
School of Economics and Political Science, London, UK. S.Kanazawa@lse.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: Recent studies conclude childhood intelligence has no direct effect 
on adult obesity net of education, but evolutionary psychological theories 
suggest otherwise.
DESIGN AND METHODS: A population (n = 17,419) of British babies has been 
followed since birth in 1958 in a prospectively longitudinal study. Childhood 
general intelligence is measured at 7, 11, and 16, and adult BMI and obesity are 
measured at 51.
RESULTS: Childhood general intelligence has a direct effect on adult BMI, 
obesity, and weight gain, net of education, earnings, mother's BMI, father's 
BMI, childhood social class, and sex. More intelligent children grow up to eat 
more healthy foods and exercise more frequently as adults.
CONCLUSION: Childhood intelligence has a direct effect on adult obesity 
unmediated by education or earnings. General intelligence decreases BMI only in 
adulthood when individuals have complete control over what they eat.

Copyright © 2012 The Obesity Society.

DOI: 10.1002/oby.20018
PMID: 23404798 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


367. PLoS One. 2013;8(2):e55518. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0055518. Epub 2013 Feb 6.

Brain training game boosts executive functions, working memory and processing 
speed in the young adults: a randomized controlled trial.

Nouchi R(1), Taki Y, Takeuchi H, Hashizume H, Nozawa T, Kambara T, Sekiguchi A, 
Miyauchi CM, Kotozaki Y, Nouchi H, Kawashima R.

Author information:
(1)Smart Ageing International Research Centre, Institute of Development, Aging 
and Cancer, Tohoku University, Sendai, Japan. rnouchi@idac.tohoku.ac.jp

BACKGROUND: Do brain training games work? The beneficial effects of brain 
training games are expected to transfer to other cognitive functions. Yet in all 
honesty, beneficial transfer effects of the commercial brain training games in 
young adults have little scientific basis. Here we investigated the impact of 
the brain training game (Brain Age) on a wide range of cognitive functions in 
young adults.
METHODS: We conducted a double-blind (de facto masking) randomized controlled 
trial using a popular brain training game (Brain Age) and a popular puzzle game 
(Tetris). Thirty-two volunteers were recruited through an advertisement in the 
local newspaper and randomly assigned to either of two game groups (Brain Age, 
Tetris). Participants in both the Brain Age and the Tetris groups played their 
game for about 15 minutes per day, at least 5 days per week, for 4 weeks. 
Measures of the cognitive functions were conducted before and after training. 
Measures of the cognitive functions fell into eight categories (fluid 
intelligence, executive function, working memory, short-term memory, attention, 
processing speed, visual ability, and reading ability).
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: Our results showed that commercial brain training game 
improves executive functions, working memory, and processing speed in young 
adults. Moreover, the popular puzzle game can engender improvement attention and 
visuo-spatial ability compared to playing the brain training game. The present 
study showed the scientific evidence which the brain training game had the 
beneficial effects on cognitive functions (executive functions, working memory 
and processing speed) in the healthy young adults.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results do not indicate that everyone should play brain 
training games. However, the commercial brain training game might be a simple 
and convenient means to improve some cognitive functions. We believe that our 
findings are highly relevant to applications in educational and clinical fields.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: UMIN Clinical Trial Registry 000005618.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0055518
PMCID: PMC3566110
PMID: 23405164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: RK is the creator of Brain 
Age. Tohoku University, to which RK belongs, has received royalties generated by 
Brain Age's sales. RK has no other competing interests. All other authors have 
declared that no competing interests exist. This does not alter the authors' 
adherence to all the PLOS ONE policies on sharing data and materials.


368. J Nurs Manag. 2013 Apr;21(3):563-71. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2834.2012.01390.x. Epub 
2012 May 23.

Bullying as workgroup manipulation: a model for understanding patterns of 
victimization and contagion within the workgroup.

Hutchinson M(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Human Sciences, Southern Cross University, Lismore, New 
South Wales, Australia.

Aim  The aim of the present synthesis was to review the literature on bullying 
in the nursing workplace and develop an explanatory model for patterns of 
victimization and contagion within the workgroup. Background  Although research 
has demonstrated that bullying can cause significant harm there has been little 
investigation or theorizing into the place of the workgroup as a vehicle for 
magnifying, transmitting or sustaining bullying. Evaluation  Narrative synthesis 
of the literature on bullying in the nursing workplace. Key issues  The putative 
model developed from a narrative synthesis of the available literature proposes 
four forms of bullying as workgroup manipulation. Conclusions  The model 
provides insight into mechanisms for the contagion of bullying and victimization 
within workgroups and an explanatory mechanism for the way bullying can escalate 
to implicate patient care. Implications for Nurse Managers  Recognizing 
workgroup manipulation processes and the patterns of victimization and contagion 
with the workgroup provides a deeper understanding of bullying and illustrates 
the place of intervention strategies which foster the emotional intelligence 
climate in nursing teams.

© 2012 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2834.2012.01390.x
PMID: 23406069 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


369. J Trauma Dissociation. 2013;14(2):147-58. doi: 10.1080/15299732.2013.724344.

The role of abusive states of being in interrogation.

Putnam FW(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel 
Hill, North Carolina, USA. frank_putnam@med.unc.edu

Interrogation, the questioning of persons detained by police, military, or 
intelligence organizations, is designed to extract information that a subject 
may resist disclosing. Interrogation techniques are frequently predicated on 
inducing mental states of despair, dread, dependency, and debility that weaken 
an individual's resistance. Descriptions of techniques from 2 Central 
Intelligence Agency training manuals are illustrated by examples from interviews 
of and writings by Murat Kurnaz, who was held at Guantánamo Bay Detention Camp 
for 5 years. Interrogation techniques are designed to create a destabilizing 
sense of shock; undermine an individual's grasp on reality; and provoke internal 
psychological division, self-conflict, and confusion. The long-term effects of 
interrogation often include posttraumatic stress disorder as well as states of 
anxiety, depression, and depersonalization.

DOI: 10.1080/15299732.2013.724344
PMID: 23406220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


370. Orphanet J Rare Dis. 2013 Feb 13;8:24. doi: 10.1186/1750-1172-8-24.

Brain involvement in Alström syndrome.

Citton V(1), Favaro A, Bettini V, Gabrieli J, Milan G, Greggio NA, Marshall JD, 
Naggert JK, Manara R, Maffei P.

Author information:
(1)Neuroradiology Unit, IRCCS San Camillo Hospital Venezia, and Department of 
Neurosciences, University of Padua, Padova, Italy. valentinacitton@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: Alström Syndrome (AS) is a rare ciliopathy characterized by cone-rod 
retinal dystrophy, sensorineural hearing loss, obesity, type 2 diabetes mellitus 
and cardiomyopathy. Most patients do not present with neurological issues and 
demonstrate normal intelligence, although delayed psychomotor development and 
psychiatric disorders have been reported. To date, brain Magnetic Resonance 
Imaging (MRI) abnormalities in AS have not been explored.
METHODS: We investigated structural brain changes in 12 genetically proven AS 
patients (mean-age 22 years; range: 6-45, 6 females) and 19 matched healthy and 
positive controls (mean-age 23 years; range: 6-43; 12 females) using 
conventional MRI, Voxel-Based Morphometry (VBM) and Diffusion Tensor Imaging 
(DTI).
RESULTS: 6/12 AS patients presented with brain abnormalities such as ventricular 
enlargement (4/12), periventricular white matter abnormalities (3/12) and 
lacune-like lesions (1/12); all patients older than 30 years had vascular-like 
lesions. VBM detected grey and white matter volume reduction in AS patients, 
especially in the posterior regions. DTI revealed significant fractional 
anisotropy decrease and radial diffusivity increase in the supratentorial white 
matter, also diffusely involving those regions that appeared normal on 
conventional imaging. On the contrary, axial and mean diffusivity did not differ 
from controls except in the fornix.
CONCLUSIONS: Brain involvement in Alström syndrome is not uncommon. Early 
vascular-like lesions, gray and white matter atrophy, mostly involving the 
posterior regions, and diffuse supratentorial white matter derangement suggest a 
role of cilia in endothelial cell and oligodendrocyte function.

DOI: 10.1186/1750-1172-8-24
PMCID: PMC3584911
PMID: 23406482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


371. Acta Psychiatr Scand. 2013 Nov;128(5):362-9. doi: 10.1111/acps.12073. Epub 2013 
Feb 14.

The CACNA1C risk allele selectively impacts on executive function in bipolar 
type I disorder.

Soeiro-de-Souza MG(1), Bio DS, Dias VV, Vieta E, Machado-Vieira R, Moreno RA.

Author information:
(1)Mood Disorders Unit (GRUDA), Department and Institute of Psychiatry, School 
of Medicine, University of Sao Paulo (IPq-FMUSP), São Paulo, Brazil.

OBJECTIVE: Calcium channels are important for converting electrical activity 
into biochemical events. A single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) (rs1006737) in 
the CACNA1C gene has been strongly associated with increased risk for Bipolar 
disorder (BD) in genome-wide association studies. Recently, this same SNP has 
been reported to influence executive function in schizophrenia and controls, but 
it remains unclear whether this SNP affects behaviour, especially cognition in 
subjects with BD.
METHOD: A total of 109 BD type I subjects and 96 controls were genotyped for 
CACNA1C rs1006737 and assessed with an executive function tests battery 
[Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale III (WAIS-III) Letter-Number Sequence subtest 
(WAIS-LNS), digit span (WAISDS), trail making test (TMT), and WCST (Wisconsin 
Card Sorting Test)].
RESULTS: In patients with BD, the CACNA1C genotype Met/Met was associated with 
worse performance on all four executive function tests compared to Val/Val. No 
influence of CACNA1C was observed in the cognitive performance of healthy 
controls.
CONCLUSION: Our data indicate for the first time that the CACNA1C risk allele is 
likely associated with executive dysfunction as a trait in BD, as this 
association was found regardless the presence of mood symptoms. Larger studies 
should evaluate the potential influence of CACNA1C on other cognitive domains in 
BD.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/acps.12073
PMID: 23406546 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


372. J Nerv Ment Dis. 2013 Mar;201(3):202-7. doi: 10.1097/NMD.0b013e3182845c0a.

Mentalizing in female inpatients with major depressive disorder.

Fischer-Kern M(1), Fonagy P, Kapusta ND, Luyten P, Boss S, Naderer A, Blüml V, 
Leithner K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychoanalysis and Psychotherapy, Medical University of Vienna, 
Vienna, Austria. melitta.fischer-kern@meduniwien.ac.at

Depression is associated with profound impairments in social and interpersonal 
functioning. However, little research has addressed deficits in mentalizing 
capacity that may underlie these impairments. The aim of this study was, 
therefore, to investigate the capacity for mentalization in female inpatients 
with depression in comparison with healthy controls. We assessed 46 inpatients 
with major depressive disorder with regard to psychiatric diagnoses, severity of 
depression, cognitive impairment, and verbal intelligence. In addition, 20 
healthy controls matched for sex, age, and education were included. 
Mentalization was scored on the Adult Attachment Interview using the Reflective 
Functioning Scale. The female inpatients with depression showed a significantly 
lower capacity for mentalization compared with the healthy controls. 
Mentalization deficits were not restricted to depression-specific topics. 
Moreover, deficits in mentalizing capacity were related to illness duration, 
number of admissions, and cognitive impairment. The results indicate severe 
impairment in the ability of the female inpatients with depression to identify 
and interpret mental states of the self and others. Correlations with illness 
duration and number of admissions suggest that a chronic course of depression 
results in further mentalizing impairments. The investigation of mentalization 
may be of particular importance for the development of targeted 
psychotherapeutic interventions for depression.

DOI: 10.1097/NMD.0b013e3182845c0a
PMID: 23407204 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


373. Neuroreport. 2013 Mar 27;24(5):259-64. doi: 10.1097/WNR.0b013e32835f2069.

Brain networks of social comparison.

Kedia G(1), Lindner M, Mussweiler T, Ihssen N, Linden DE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Cologne, Cologne, UK. 
gkedia@uni-koeln.de

Social comparison, that is, the process of comparing oneself to other people, is 
a ubiquitous social cognitive mechanism; however, so far its neural correlates 
have remained unknown. The present study tested the hypothesis that social 
comparisons are supported by partly dissociated networks, depending on whether 
the dimension under comparison concerns a physical or a psychological attribute. 
We measured brain activity with functional MRI, whereas participants were 
comparing their own height or intelligence to that of individuals they 
personally know. Height comparisons were associated with higher activity in a 
frontoparietal network involved in spatial and numerical cognition. Conversely, 
intelligence comparisons recruited a network of midline areas that have been 
previously implicated in the attribution of mental states to oneself and others 
(Theory of mind). These findings suggest that social comparisons rely on diverse 
domain-specific mechanisms rather than on one unitary process.

DOI: 10.1097/WNR.0b013e32835f2069
PMID: 23407275 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


374. Brain Struct Funct. 2014 Jan;219(1):353-66. doi: 10.1007/s00429-013-0504-z. Epub 
2013 Feb 14.

Musical training intensity yields opposite effects on grey matter density in 
cognitive versus sensorimotor networks.

James CE(1), Oechslin MS, Van De Ville D, Hauert CA, Descloux C, Lazeyras F.

Author information:
(1)Geneva Neuroscience Center, University of Geneva, Geneva, Switzerland, 
clara.james@unige.ch.

Using optimized voxel-based morphometry, we performed grey matter density 
analyses on 59 age-, sex- and intelligence-matched young adults with three 
distinct, progressive levels of musical training intensity or expertise. 
Structural brain adaptations in musicians have been repeatedly demonstrated in 
areas involved in auditory perception and motor skills. However, musical 
activities are not confined to auditory perception and motor performance, but 
are entangled with higher-order cognitive processes. In consequence, neuronal 
systems involved in such higher-order processing may also be shaped by 
experience-driven plasticity. We modelled expertise as a three-level regressor 
to study possible linear relationships of expertise with grey matter density. 
The key finding of this study resides in a functional dissimilarity between 
areas exhibiting increase versus decrease of grey matter as a function of 
musical expertise. Grey matter density increased with expertise in areas known 
for their involvement in higher-order cognitive processing: right fusiform gyrus 
(visual pattern recognition), right mid orbital gyrus (tonal sensitivity), left 
inferior frontal gyrus (syntactic processing, executive function, working 
memory), left intraparietal sulcus (visuo-motor coordination) and bilateral 
posterior cerebellar Crus II (executive function, working memory) and in 
auditory processing: left Heschl's gyrus. Conversely, grey matter density 
decreased with expertise in bilateral perirolandic and striatal areas that are 
related to sensorimotor function, possibly reflecting high automation of motor 
skills. Moreover, a multiple regression analysis evidenced that grey matter 
density in the right mid orbital area and the inferior frontal gyrus predicted 
accuracy in detecting fine-grained incongruities in tonal music.

DOI: 10.1007/s00429-013-0504-z
PMID: 23408267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


375. J Nurs Manag. 2013 Apr;21(3):553-62. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2834.2012.01372.x. Epub 
2012 Apr 28.

Exploring leadership capability and emotional intelligence as moderators of 
workplace bullying.

Hutchinson M(1), Hurley J.

Author information:
(1)Southern Cross University, School of Health and Human Sciences, Coffs 
Harbour, New South Wales, Australia.

AIM: This study aimed to explore the potential for emotionally intelligent 
leadership as a way to mitigate bullying behaviour within nursing workplace 
environments.
BACKGROUND: As the body of evidence about bullying continues to grow there is an 
increasing need for researchers to direct their attention to developing 
theoretical frameworks that explain how bullying and victimization occur, and 
the types of strategies that may address the problem.
EVALUATION: The narrative synthesis of the literature presented in this paper is 
forwarded as supporting the need for strengthening leadership capability, 
especially those capabilities associated with emotional intelligence, as a means 
of diminishing experienced bullying within nursing.
KEY ISSUES: Stemming from our expanding understandings about bullying is an 
appreciation of the range of factors within organizations that influence the 
occurrence of bullying, and an awareness of the need to understand the 
expression, experience and management of emotions in the workplace.
CONCLUSIONS: While both leadership and emotional intelligence capabilities offer 
real potential to mitigate bullying behaviour, disparity exits between clinical 
and managerial nurses toward preferred leadership styles and emotional 
intelligence is open to challenges towards its content validity.
IMPLICATIONS FOR NURSING MANAGEMENT: Nursing management is challenged to build 
upon procedural responses to bullying to include a ground up approach to 
leadership enhancement capability, better responses to emotions in the workplace 
and supporting the interpersonal and intrapersonal capabilities of the nursing 
workforce.

© 2012 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2834.2012.01372.x
PMID: 23410008 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


376. Dev Neuropsychol. 2013;38(2):98-113. doi: 10.1080/87565641.2012.733785.

Correlations between motor and intellectual functions in normally developing 
children between 7 and 18 years.

Jenni OG(1), Chaouch A, Caflisch J, Rousson V.

Author information:
(1)Child Development Center, Department of Pediatrics, University Children's 
Hospital Zürich, Zürich, Switzerland. Oskar.Jenni@kispi.uzh.ch

The relationship between motor and intellectual functions was examined in 252 
healthy children from 7 to 18 years using the Zurich Neuromotor Assessment and 
standardized intelligence tests. The magnitude of Spearman correlations between 
neuromotor and intellectual scores was generally weak (r = 0.15-0.37). The 
strongest correlations were found between performance in the pegboard task and 
visuomotor intelligence (r = 0.35) and between contralateral associated 
movements and intelligence in boys (r = 0.37). We conclude that specific 
connections between motor and intellectual functions may exist. However, because 
the magnitude of correlations is generally weak, we suggest that motor and 
intellectual domains in healthy children are largely independent.

DOI: 10.1080/87565641.2012.733785
PMID: 23410213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


377. J Nurs Manag. 2013 May;21(4):624-32. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2834.2012.01443.x. Epub 
2012 Nov 1.

Leadership training to improve nurse retention.

Wallis A(1), Kennedy KI.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Affairs, University of Colorado Denver, Denver, CO 
80217-3364, USA. allan.wallis@ucdenver.edu

AIM: This paper discusses findings from an evaluation of a training programme 
designed to promote collaborative, team-based approaches to improve nurse 
retention within health care organizations.
BACKGROUND: A year-long leadership training programme was designed and 
implemented to develop effective teams that could address retention challenges 
in a diverse set of organizations in Colorado ranging from public, private to 
non-profit.
EVALUATION: An evaluation, based on a combination of participant observation, 
group interviews, and the use of standardized tests measuring individual 
emotional intelligence and team dynamics was conducted to assess the 
effectiveness of the training programme.
KEY ISSUES: What role do the emotional intelligence of individual members and 
organizational culture play in team effectiveness?
CONCLUSIONS: Out of five teams participating in the training programme, two 
performed exceptionally well, one experienced moderate success and two 
encountered significant problems. Team dynamics were significantly affected by 
the emotional intelligence of key members holding supervisory positions and by 
the existing culture and structure of the participating organizations.
IMPLICATIONS FOR NURSING MANAGEMENT: Team approaches to retention hold promise 
but require careful development and are most likely to work where organizations 
have a collaborative problem-solving environment.

© 2012 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2834.2012.01443.x
PMID: 23410240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


378. Psychol Med. 2013 Dec;43(12):2563-70. doi: 10.1017/S0033291713000196. Epub 2013 
Feb 15.

Schizophrenia genetic variants are not associated with intelligence.

van Scheltinga AF(1), Bakker SC, van Haren NE, Derks EM, Buizer-Voskamp JE, Cahn 
W, Ripke S; Psychiatric Genome-Wide Association Study (GWAS) Consortium; Ophoff 
RA, Kahn RS.

Collaborators: Ripke S, Sanders A, Kendler K, Levinson D, Sklar P, Holmans P, 
Lin D-, Duan J, Ophoff R, Andreassen O, Scolnick E, Cichon S, St Clair D, Corvin 
A, Gurling H, Werge T, Rujescu D, Blackwood D, Pato C, Malhotra A, Purcell S, 
Dudbridge F, Neale B, Rossin L, Visscher P, Posthuma D, Ruderfer D, Fanous A, 
Stefansson H, Steinberg S, Mowry B, Golimbet V, De Hert M, Jonsson E, Bitter I, 
Pietilainen O, Collier D, Tosato S, Agartz I, Albus M, Alexander M, Amdur R, 
Amin F, Bass N, Bergen S, Black D, Børglum A, Brown M, Bruggeman R, Buccola N, 
Byerley W, Cahn W, Cantor R, Carr V, Catts S, Choudhury K, Cloninger C, Cormican 
P, Craddock N, Danoy P, Datta S, de Haan L, Demontis D, Dikeos D, Djurovic S, 
Donnelly P, Donohoe G, Duong L, Dwyer S, Fink-Jensen A, Freedman R, Freimer N, 
Friedl M, Georgieva L, Giegling I, Gill M, Glenthøj B, Godard S, Hamshere M, 
Hansen M, Hansen T, Hartmann A, Henskens F, Hougaard D, Hultman C, Ingason A, 
Jablensky A, Jakobsen K, Jay M, Jurgens G, Kahn R, Keller M, Kenis G, Kenny E, 
Kim Y, Kirov G, Konnerth H, Konte B, Krabbendam L, Krasucki R, Lasseter V, 
Laurent C, Lawrence J, Lencz T, Lerer F, Liang K-, Lichtenstein P, Lieberman J, 
Linszen D, Lonnqvist J, Loughland C, Maclean A, Maher B, Maier W, Mallet J, 
Malloy P, Mattheisen M, Mattingsdal M, McGhee K, McGrath J, McIntosh A, McLean 
D, McQuillin A, Melle I, Michie P, Milanova V, Morris D, Mors O, Mortensen P, 
Moskvina V, Muglia P, Myin-Germeys I, Nertney D, Nestadt G, Nielsen J, Nikolov 
I, Nordentoft M, Norton N, Nothen M, O'Dushlaine C, Olincy A, Olsen L, O'Neill 
F, Ørntoft T, Owen M, Pantelis C, Papadimitriou G, Pato M, Peltonen L, Petursson 
H, Pickard B, Pimm J, Pulver A, Puri V, Quested D, Quinn E, Rasmussen H, 
Rethelyi JM, Ribble R, Rietschel M, Riley B, Ruggeri M, Schall U, Schulze T, 
Schwab S, Scott R, Shi J, Sigurdsson E, Silverman J, Spencer C, Stefansson K, 
Strange A, Strengman E, Stroup T, Suvisaari J, Terenius L, Thirumalai S, 
Thygesen J, Timm S, Toncheva D, van den Oord E, van Os J, van Winkel R, Veldink 
J, Walsh D, Wang A, Wiersma D, Wildenauer D, Williams H, Williams N, Wormley B, 
Zammit S, Sullivan P, O'Donovan M, Daly M, Gejman P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Rudolf Magnus Institute of Neuroscience, University 
Medical Center Utrecht, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Schizophrenia is associated with lower pre-morbid intelligence (IQ) 
in addition to (pre-morbid) cognitive decline. Both schizophrenia and IQ are 
highly heritable traits. Therefore, we hypothesized that genetic variants 
associated with schizophrenia, including copy number variants (CNVs) and a 
polygenic schizophrenia (risk) score (PSS), may influence intelligence.
METHOD: IQ was estimated with the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale (WAIS). CNVs 
were determined from single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) data using the 
QuantiSNP and PennCNV algorithms. For the PSS, odds ratios for genome-wide SNP 
data were calculated in a sample collected by the Psychiatric Genome-Wide 
Association Study (GWAS) Consortium (8690 schizophrenia patients and 11 831 
controls). These were used to calculate individual PSSs in our independent 
sample of 350 schizophrenia patients and 322 healthy controls.
RESULTS: Although significantly more genes were disrupted by deletions in 
schizophrenia patients compared to controls (p = 0.009), there was no effect of 
CNV measures on IQ. The PSS was associated with disease status (R 2 = 0.055, p = 
2.1 × 10-7) and with IQ in the entire sample (R 2 = 0.018, p = 0.0008) but the 
effect on IQ disappeared after correction for disease status.
CONCLUSIONS: Our data suggest that rare and common schizophrenia-associated 
variants do not explain the variation in IQ in healthy subjects or in 
schizophrenia patients. Thus, reductions in IQ in schizophrenia patients may be 
secondary to other processes related to schizophrenia risk.

DOI: 10.1017/S0033291713000196
PMCID: PMC4743754
PMID: 23410598 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


379. Australas Psychiatry. 2013 Apr;21(2):122-6. doi: 10.1177/1039856213475683. Epub 
2013 Feb 14.

An open clinical trial assessing a novel training program for social cognitive 
impairment in schizophrenia.

Marsh P(1), Langdon R, McGuire J, Harris A, Polito V, Coltheart M.

Author information:
(1)ARC Centre of Excellence in Cognition and its Disorders, Macquarie 
University, Sydney, NSW, Australia. pamela.marsh@mq.edu.au

OBJECTIVE: Social cognition is profoundly impaired in patients with 
schizophrenia. This study describes 'Mental-State Reasoning Training for Social 
Cognitive Impairment' (SoCog-MSRT), a 5-week program developed to improve social 
cognition in patients with schizophrenia. We aimed to investigate the 
feasibility of implementing SoCog-MSRT in a rehabilitation setting and to 
evaluate whether our training methods produced improvements. METHOD The 
feasibility and benefits of SoCog-MSRT were evaluated in an open clinical trial 
with 14 participants with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder. Training 
comprised 10 twice-weekly sessions, for 5 weeks, with a pre- and post-training 
assessment.
RESULTS: There were significant improvements on: (a) a classic false-belief test 
of Theory of Mind (ToM); (b) inferring complex mental states from the eyes; and 
(c) a self-reported measure of social understanding. Some of these improvements 
were associated with baseline levels of working memory and premorbid 
Intelligence Quotient (IQ). CONCLUSIONS SoCog-MSRT can improve ToM abilities and 
social understanding, but individuals with poorer working memory and lower 
premorbid IQ may be less able to benefit from this type of training.

DOI: 10.1177/1039856213475683
PMID: 23411126 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


380. Hum Reprod. 2013 May;28(5):1309-23. doi: 10.1093/humrep/det014. Epub 2013 Feb 
14.

High FSH decreases the developmental potential of mouse oocytes and resulting 
fertilized embryos, but does not influence offspring physiology and behavior in 
vitro or in vivo.

Li M(1), Zhao Y, Zhao CH, Yan J, Yan YL, Rong L, Liu P, Feng HL, Yu Y, Qiao J.

Author information:
(1)Center of Reproductive Medicine, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, 
Peking University Third Hospital, No. 49 North HuaYuan Road, HaiDian District, 
Beijing 100191, China.

STUDY QUESTION: Do different concentrations of FSH in the assisted reproductive 
technology (ART) procedure in vitro or in vivo affect the developmental 
competence of oocytes, the embryos and the offspring conceived from these 
embryos?
SUMMARY ANSWER: Improper FSH treatment (200 IU/l in vitro, 10 IU/ml in vivo and 
200 IU/ml in vivo) impairs the development competence of oocyte and embryo, but 
does not influence offspring physiology and behavior.
WHAT IS KNOWN ALREADY: Exogenous FSH has been widely used in the field of ART. 
However, the effects of different concentrations of FSH on the developmental 
competence of oocytes, embryos and the offspring conceived from these embryos, 
are still unknown.
STUDY DESIGN, SIZE, DURATION: In a prospective study, a total of 45 mice at 8-10 
weeks of age were primed in vivo with different dosages of FSH (9 mice in the 10 
IU/ml, 10 mice in the 50 IU/ml, 10 mice in the 100 IU/ml and 16 mice in the 200 
IU/ml groups). Fresh MII oocytes were retrieved from ovaries: this was 
designated as in vivo group. Thirty six mice at 8-10 weeks of age were 
sacrificed by cervical dislocation to obtain ovaries without FSH treatment (9 
mice in the 0 IU/l, 9 mice in the 50 IU/l, 8 mice in the 100 IU/l and 10 mice in 
the 200 IU/l groups), and then the immature oocytes were collected from these 
ovaries and cultured in vitro matured medium supplemented with 0, 50, 100 and 
200 IU/l FSH: this was designated as in vitro group.
MATERIALS, SETTING, METHODS: Spindle assembly of matured MII oocytes was stained 
via an immunofluorescence method and the oocytes ratio of normal spindle was 
analyzed. The developmental competence of the resulting fertilized embryos in 
the pre- and post-implantation stages was examined in in vitro and in vivo 
groups. Furthermore, physiological index, including reproductive potential and 
body weight, of the offspring was investigated by mating experiments and 
behavior index, including learning, memory, probing and intelligence, was tested 
by Morris water maze in in vitro and in vivo groups.
MAIN RESULTS AND THE ROLE OF CHANCE: In the in vitro groups, the oocyte 
maturation competence, normal spindle assembly, blastocyst formation and 
implantation, as well as viable pup production were all impaired in the group 
treated with 200 IU/l FSH (P < 0.05). No differences were observed among the 
other three groups (P > 0.05). In the in vivo groups, 10 IU/ml FSH but not 200 
IU/ml treatment influenced blastocyst formation and viable pup production (P < 
0.05), although the high proportion of spindle assembly abnormality was only 
observed in the 200 IU/ml FSH treatment group (P < 0.05). Furthermore, there 
were no significant differences in terms of physiological index (reproductive 
potential and body weight) and behavior index (learning, memory, probing and 
intelligence) in offspring from in vitro and in vivo groups (P > 0.05).
LIMITATIONS, REASONS FOR CAUTION: The mouse model was used in this study. The 
results of the mouse follicle growth and oocyte development in responding to 
different concentrations of FSH are not 100% transferable to human, because of 
the physiological differences between mouse and human.
WIDER IMPLICATIONS OF THE FINDINGS: The findings indicated that FSH application 
in the field of ART is safe to the resulted offspring, but it should be more 
carefully used for each women in ART cycles because the inappropriate FSH 
concentration would decrease the oocyte developmental competence.
STUDY FUNDING/COMPETING INTEREST(S): This work was partially supported by the 
Ministry of Science and Technology of China Grants (973 program; 2011CB944504), 
the Program for Changjiang Scholars and Innovative Research Team in University 
of Ministry of Education of China (30825038), the National Natural Science Funds 
for Young Scholar (31000661) and by the Joint Research Fund for Overseas, Hong 
Kong and Marco Scholars (31128013/C120205). None of the authors has any 
conflicts of interest.

DOI: 10.1093/humrep/det014
PMID: 23411618 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


381. Healthc Financ Manage. 2013 Feb;67(2):44-6, 48.

Quest for business intelligence in health care.

Van De Graaff J(1), Cameron A.

Author information:
(1)KLAS Research, Orem, Utah, USA. joev@klasresearch.com

In an era of reform, providers are examining more forward-thinking business 
intelligence strategies, according to a recent study. Enterprise business 
intelligence tool sets offer a breadth of design and functionality that often 
are capable of serving the enterprise. One limitation of broader tool sets is 
that they may lack needed application-specific functionality or prebuilt 
healthcare content for a specific department.

PMID: 23413668 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


382. Clin Neuropsychol. 2013;27(3):485-94. doi: 10.1080/13854046.2013.771215. Epub 
2013 Feb 18.

Cognitive, emotional and social markers of serial murdering.

Angrilli A(1), Sartori G, Donzella G.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Psychology, University of Padova, Padova, Italy. 
alessandro.angrilli@unipd.it

Although criminal psychopathy is starting to be relatively well described, our 
knowledge of the characteristics and scientific markers of serial murdering is 
still very poor. A serial killer who murdered more than five people, KT, was 
administered a battery of standardized tests aimed at measuring 
neuropsychological impairment and social/emotional cognition deficits. KT 
exhibited a striking dissociation between a high level of emotional detachment 
and a low score on the antisocial behavior scale on the Psychopathy 
Checklist-Revised (PCL-R). The Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory-2 
showed a normal pattern with the psychotic triad at borderline level. KT had a 
high intelligence score and showed almost no impairment in cognitive tests 
sensitive to frontal lobe dysfunction (Wisconsin Card Sorting Test, Theory of 
Mind, Tower of London, this latter evidenced a mild impairment in planning 
performance). In the tests on moral, emotional and social cognition, his 
patterns of response differed from matched controls and from past reports on 
criminal psychopaths as, unlike these individuals, KT exhibited normal 
recognition of fear and a relatively intact knowledge of moral rules but he was 
impaired in the recognition of anger, embarrassment and conventional social 
rules. The overall picture of KT suggests that serial killing may be closer to 
normality than psychopathy defined according to either the DSM IV or the PCL-R, 
and it would be characterized by a relatively spared moral cognition and 
selective deficits in social and emotional cognition domains.

DOI: 10.1080/13854046.2013.771215
PMID: 23414440 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


383. Theor Biol Med Model. 2013 Feb 18;10:13. doi: 10.1186/1742-4682-10-13.

A clinical study of the effects of lead poisoning on the intelligence and 
neurobehavioral abilities of children.

Hou S(1), Yuan L, Jin P, Ding B, Qin N, Li L, Liu X, Wu Z, Zhao G, Deng Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Xijing Hospital, Fourth Military Medical University, 
Xi'an, China.

BACKGROUND: Lead is a heavy metal and important environmental toxicant and nerve 
poison that can destruction many functions of the nervous system. Lead poisoning 
is a medical condition caused by increased levels of lead in the body. Lead 
interferes with a variety of body processes and is toxic to many organs and 
issues, including the central nervous system. It interferes with the development 
of the nervous system, and is therefore particularly toxic to children, causing 
potentially permanent neural and cognitive impairments. In this study, we 
investigated the relationship between lead poisoning and the intellectual and 
neurobehavioral capabilities of children.
METHODS: The background characteristics of the research subjects were collected 
by questionnaire survey. Blood lead levels were detected by differential 
potentiometric stripping analysis (DPSA). Intelligence was assessed using the 
Gesell Developmental Scale. The Achenbach Child Behavior Checklist (CBCL) was 
used to evaluate each child's behavior.
RESULTS: Blood lead levels were significantly negatively correlated with the 
developmental quotients of adaptive behavior, gross motor performance, fine 
motor performance, language development, and individual social behavior (P < 
0.01). Compared with healthy children, more children with lead poisoning had 
abnormal behaviors, especially social withdrawal, depression, and atypical body 
movements, aggressions and destruction.
CONCLUSION: Lead poisoning has adverse effects on the behavior and mental 
development of 2-4-year-old children, prescribing positive and effective 
precautionary measures.

DOI: 10.1186/1742-4682-10-13
PMCID: PMC3598508
PMID: 23414525 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


384. Brain Dev. 2014 Feb;36(2):97-106. doi: 10.1016/j.braindev.2013.01.005. Epub 2013 
Feb 13.

Neurobehavioral and hemodynamic evaluation of Stroop and reverse Stroop 
interference in children with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder.

Yasumura A(1), Kokubo N(2), Yamamoto H(2), Yasumura Y(3), Nakagawa E(4), Kaga 
M(2), Hiraki K(5), Inagaki M(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Developmental Disorders, National Institute of Mental Health, 
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Tokyo, Japan; Graduate School of 
Arts and Sciences, The University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan. Electronic address: 
yasumura@ncnp.go.jp.
(2)Department of Developmental Disorders, National Institute of Mental Health, 
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Department of Children, Saitama Jyunshin College, Saitama, Japan.
(4)Department of Child Neurology, NCNP Hospital, Tokyo, Japan.
(5)Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, The University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.

Failure of executive function (EF) is a core symptom of 
attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). However, various results have 
been reported and sufficient evidence is lacking. In the present study, we 
evaluated the characteristics of children with ADHD using the Stroop task (ST) 
and reverse Stroop task (RST) that reflects the inhibition function of EF. We 
compared children with ADHD, typically developing children (TDC), and children 
with autism spectrum disorder (ASD), which is more difficult to discriminate 
from ADHD. A total of 10 children diagnosed with ADHD, 15 TDC, and 11 children 
diagnosed with ASD, all matched by age, sex, language ability, and intelligence 
quotient, participated in this study. While each subject performed 
computer-based ST and RST with a touch panel, changes in oxygenated hemoglobin 
(oxy-Hb) were measured in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) by near-infrared 
spectroscopy (NIRS) to correlate test performance with neural activity. 
Behavioral performance significantly differed among 3 groups during RST but not 
during ST. The ADHD group showed greater color interference than the TDC group. 
In addition, there was a negative correlation between right lateral PFC (LPFC) 
activity and the severity of attention deficit. Children with ADHD exhibit 
several problems associated with inhibition of color, and this symptom is 
affected by low activities of the right LPFC. In addition, it is suggested that 
low hemodynamic activities in this area are correlated with ADHD.

Copyright © 2013 The Japanese Society of Child Neurology. Published by Elsevier 
B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.braindev.2013.01.005
PMID: 23414618 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


385. Soc Sci Med. 2013 Mar;80:19-23. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2012.12.008. Epub 2012 
Dec 20.

The scarring effect of unemployment throughout adulthood on psychological 
distress at age 50: estimates controlling for early adulthood distress and 
childhood psychological factors.

Daly M(1), Delaney L.

Author information:
(1)Stirling Management School, University of Stirling, FK9 4LA, United Kingdom.

Unemployment is an established predictor of psychological distress. Despite this 
robust relationship, the long-term impact of unemployment on human welfare has 
been examined in relatively few studies. In this investigation we test the 
association between the life-time duration of unemployment over a 34 year period 
from 1974 to 2008 and psychological distress at age 50 years in a sample of 6253 
British adults who took part in the National Child Development Study (NCDS). In 
addition to adjusting for demographic characteristics, we account for the role 
of childhood psychological factors, which have been shown to predict adult 
occupational and mental health outcomes and may determine the connection between 
unemployment and distress. We find that intelligence and behavioral/emotional 
problems at age 11 predict both unemployment and psychological distress later in 
life. Furthermore, as predicted, the duration of unemployment throughout 
adulthood was associated with elevated levels of psychological distress at age 
50, after adjusting for demographic characteristics including labor force status 
at age 50. The emotional impact of unemployment was only marginally attenuated 
by the inclusion of childhood factors and early-life distress levels in the 
analyses. Thus, unemployment may lead to worsening distress levels that persist 
over time and which cannot be attributed to childhood or early-life well-being 
or cognitive functioning early in life. Our analysis further supports the idea 
of psychological scarring from unemployment and the importance of employment 
outcomes for adult well-being.

Copyright © 2012. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2012.12.008
PMID: 23415587 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


386. Soc Sci Med. 2013 Mar;80:31-6. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2012.12.026. Epub 2013 
Jan 10.

Sheepskin effects of education in the 10-year Framingham risk of coronary heart 
disease.

Liu SY(1), Buka SL, Kubzansky LD, Kawachi I, Gilman SE, Loucks EB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Society, Human Development and Health, Harvard School of Public 
Health, 677 Huntington Avenue, Boston, MA 02115, USA. szeliu@harvard.hsph.edu

While the association between education and adult health is well documented, it 
is unclear whether quantity (i.e. years of schooling) or credentials (i.e. 
degrees) drive this association. Individuals with degrees may have better health 
than their non-credentialed counterparts given similar years of schooling, the 
so-called "sheepskin" effect. This paper contributes to this line of inquiry by 
examining associations of educational degree and years of schooling with the 
Framingham Risk Score, a measure of 10-year risk of coronary heart disease 
(CHD), using data from a unique birth cohort (the New England Family Study; 
participants mean age 42 years) with prospective information on childhood health 
and intelligence quotient (IQ). According to our results, years of schooling 
were inversely associated with 10-year CHD risk in the unadjusted model but not 
in the fully adjusted models that included degree attainment. By contrast, 
associations between degree attainment and 10-year CHD risk remained significant 
in the fully adjusted models that included years of schooling. College degree 
holders had 10-year CHD risk 19% (95% CI: -33%, -2%) lower than individuals with 
HS degrees or less in the fully adjusted models. Subanalyses evaluating 
sheepskin effects on the individual components of the 10-year CHD risk algorithm 
showed the expected education gradient was generally noted for each of the 
individual components, with decreasing prevalence of "high risk" values 
associated with higher degree credentials. Our results suggest educational 
credentials provide an additional benefit to risk of coronary heart disease 
beyond schooling.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2012.12.026
PMCID: PMC4017865
PMID: 23415589 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


387. Environ Int. 2013 Apr;54:59-64. doi: 10.1016/j.envint.2013.01.005. Epub 2013 Feb 
13.

Long term neurocognitive impact of low dose prenatal methylmercury exposure in 
Hong Kong.

Lam HS(1), Kwok KM, Chan PH, So HK, Li AM, Ng PC, Fok TF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics, Prince of Wales Hospital, The Chinese University 
of Hong Kong, Hong Kong. hslam@cantab.net

BACKGROUND: International studies suggest that low dose prenatal methylmercury 
exposure (>29 nmol/L) has long-term adverse neurocognitive effects. There is 
evidence that the majority of children in Hong Kong exceed this level as a 
result of high fish consumption of mothers during pregnancy.
OBJECTIVE: To study whether there are any associations between low-dose prenatal 
methylmercury exposure and neurocognitive outcomes in Hong Kong children.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: All 1057 children from the original birth cohort were 
eligible for entry into the study, except children with conditions that would 
affect neurocognitive development, but were unrelated to methylmercury exposure. 
Subjects were assessed by a wide panel of tests covering a broad range of 
neurocognitive functions: Hong Kong Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children 
(HK-WISC), Hong Kong List Learning Test (HKLLT), Tests of Everyday Attention for 
Children (TEACH), Boston Naming Test, and Grooved Pegboard Test.
RESULTS: 608 subjects were recruited (median age 8.2 years, IQR 7.3, 8.8; 53.9% 
boys). After correction by confounders including child age and sex, multivariate 
analysis showed that cord blood mercury concentration was significantly 
associated with three subtests: Picture Arrangement of HK-WISC (coefficient 
-0.944, P=0.049) and Short and Long Delay Recall Difference of the HKLLT 
(coefficient -1.087, P=0.007 and coefficient -1.161, P=0.005, respectively), 
i.e., performance worsened with increasing prenatal methylmercury exposure in 
these subtests.
CONCLUSIONS: Small, but statistically significant adverse associations between 
prenatal methylmercury exposure and long-term neurocognitive effects (a visual 
sequencing task and retention ability of verbal memory) were found in our study. 
These effects are compatible with findings of studies with higher prenatal 
methylmercury exposure levels and suggest that safe strategies to further reduce 
exposure levels in Hong Kong are desirable.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envint.2013.01.005
PMID: 23416249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


388. Res Dev Disabil. 2013 Apr;34(4):1322-35. doi: 10.1016/j.ridd.2013.01.013. Epub 
2013 Feb 14.

Relationship between poor sleep and daytime cognitive performance in young 
adults with autism.

Limoges É(1), Bolduc C, Berthiaume C, Mottron L, Godbout R.

Author information:
(1)Sleep Laboratory & Clinic, Hôpital Rivière-des-Prairies, 7070 Perras Blvd., 
Montréal, Québec, Canada H1E 1A4.

Erratum in
    Res Dev Disabil. 2015 May;40:73.

Poor sleep is a common feature in autism even though patients themselves do not 
necessarily complain. The impact of poor sleep on daytime cognitive functioning 
in autism is not well-known and we therefore investigated whether sleep in 
autism correlates with daytime cognitive performance. A battery of non-verbal 
tasks was administered, in the morning after a second night of sleep in the 
laboratory, to 17 young adults with autism and normal intelligence, and 14 
typically developed individuals matched for age and IQ; none of the participants 
complained about sleep problems. Two dimensions of attention (sustained and 
selective) and 4 types of memory (working, declarative, sensory-motor and 
cognitive procedural) were tested. Individuals with autism showed clear signs of 
poor sleep. Their performance differed from the controls in response speed but 
not in accuracy. Signs of poor sleep in the autism group were significantly 
correlated with either normal performance (selective attention and declarative 
memory) or performance inferior to that of the controls (sensory-motor and 
cognitive procedural memories). Both groups presented a significant negative 
correlation between slow-wave sleep (SWS) and learning a sensory-motor 
procedural memory task. Only control participants showed a positive association 
between SWS duration and number of figures recalled on the declarative memory 
task. Correlation patterns differed between groups when sleep spindles were 
considered: they were negatively associated with number of trials needed to 
learn the sensory-motor procedural memory task in autism and with reaction time 
and number of errors on selective attention in the controls. Correlation between 
rapid eye movements (REMs) in REM sleep and cognitive procedural memory was not 
significant. We conclude that some signs reflecting the presence of poor sleep 
in adults with high-functioning autism correlate with various aspects of motor 
output on non-verbal performance tasks. The question is raised whether poor 
sleep in non-complaining persons with autism should be treated.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ridd.2013.01.013
PMID: 23417137 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


389. Ann Acad Med Singap. 2013 Jan;42(1):7-17.

Short- and long-term outcomes at 2, 5 and 8 years old for neonates at borderline 
viability--an 11-year experience.

Poon WB(1), Ho SK, Yeo CL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neonatal and Developmental Medicine, Singapore General 
Hospital, Singapore. woeibingpoon@yahoo.com

INTRODUCTION: Neurodevelopmental outcome of borderline viability neonates have 
lagged behind improvement in survival figures. Accurate figures based on local 
outcome allow us to better counsel parents and to prognosticate with greater 
accuracy on both short- and longterm outcomes.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A retrospective cohort study of 101 consecutively born 
neonates, born from 21 to 26 weeks gestation over an 11-year period from 1 
January 1994 to 31 December 2005 was conducted. Long-term outcomes were assessed 
at 2, 5 and 8 years of age in terms of mental developmental index (MDI) or 
intelligence quotient (IQ) scores, hearing and visual impairments, handicaps and 
impairments, school placement and interventions required.
RESULTS: Survival rates were 20.0%, 60.9%, 70.4% and 73.2% for neonates born at 
21 to 23, 24, 25 and 26 weeks gestation respectively. Factors that predicted 
increased mortality included higher alveolar-arterial oxygen difference (AaDO2) 
with odds ratio (OR) 1.005 and lower birth weight OR 0.993. Rates of severe 
retinopathy of prematurity (ROP) (stage 3 or worse) were 100%, 57.1%, 42.1% and 
26.7% for 21 to 23, 24, 25 and 26 weeks gestation respectively. Rates of 
bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) were 100.0%, 57.1%, 63.2% and 60.0% 
respectively. Rates of severe intraventricular haemorrhage (IVH) were 0%, 7.1%, 
5.3% and 10.0% respectively. Moderate to severe disability rates at 2 years old 
were 100%, 44.4%, 33.3% and 30.4% respectively. At 5 years old, moderate to 
severe disability rates were 16.7%, 22.2% and 14.3% respectively for those born 
at 24, 25 and 26 weeks gestation. Interpretation at 8 years was limited by small 
numbers.
CONCLUSION: Our results indicated that local figures for mortality and morbidity 
remained high at the limits of viability, although they were comparable to 
outcomes for large scale studies in advanced countries.

PMID: 23417586 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


390. Prog Neuropsychopharmacol Biol Psychiatry. 2013 Jul 1;44:193-200. doi: 
10.1016/j.pnpbp.2013.02.006. Epub 2013 Feb 16.

The influence of sex on cognitive insight and neurocognitive functioning in 
schizophrenia.

Kao YC(1), Liu YP, Lien YJ, Lin SJ, Lu CW, Wang TS, Loh CH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Tri-Service General Hospital Songshan Branch, 
Taipei, Taiwan.

Both impaired insight and cognitive deficits in schizophrenia are core features 
of this disorder. Previous studies have demonstrated the complex relationships 
between neurocognition and cognitive insight, as well as the contribution of 
neurocognition in explaining cognitive insight. However, there is lack of 
research regarding the influences of sex on the relation of neurocognition and 
cognitive insight. The present study sought to elucidate sex differences in 
cognitive insight and neurocognition in schizophrenia. Seventy three outpatients 
(male=39) with DSM-IV diagnosis of schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder 
were enrolled in the cross-sectional study. The participants were assessed with 
cognitive insight using the Beck Cognitive Insight Scale, executive functions 
using the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test, sustained attention using the Conner's 
Continuous Performance Test (Second Edition), and intelligence using the 
Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Third version, respectively. Sex differences 
in demographic and clinical variables were small; nevertheless, female patients 
had significantly later age of illness onset and higher levels of formal 
education than males (p<0.05). Poor cognitive insight was attributed to 
impairment in performance of executive function and sustained attention. Results 
from hierarchical regression analyses indicated sex as a moderator only in the 
association between cognitive insight and executive function. Our findings 
support an association between poor cognitive insight and neurocognitive 
impairment in outpatients with schizophrenia and suggest that the relationship 
may be sex-specific. This study highlights potential targets for effective 
intervention and rehabilitation in improving patients' insight toward mental 
illness.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pnpbp.2013.02.006
PMID: 23419242 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


391. J Rehabil Med. 2013 Apr;45(4):397-402. doi: 10.2340/16501977-1124.

Artificial intelligence techniques: An efficient new approach to challenge the 
assessment of complex clinical fields such as airway clearance techniques in 
patients with cystic fibrosis?

Slavici T(1), Almajan B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Mechanics, Politehnica University, 300006 Timisoara, Romania. 
titusslavici@yahoo.com

OBJECTIVE: To construct an artificial intelligence application to assist 
untrained physiotherapists in determining the appropriate physiotherapy 
exercises to improve the quality of life of patients with cystic fibrosis.
SUBJECTS: A total of 42 children (21 boys and 21 girls), age range 6-18 years, 
participated in a clinical survey between 2001 and 2005.
METHODS: Data collected during the clinical survey were entered into a neural 
network in order to correlate the health state indicators of the patients and 
the type of physiotherapy exercise to be followed. Cross-validation of the 
network was carried out by comparing the health state indicators achieved after 
following a certain physiotherapy exercise and the health state indicators 
predicted by the network.
RESULTS: The lifestyle and health state indicators of the survey participants 
improved. The network predicted the health state indicators of the participants 
with an accuracy of 93%. The results of the cross-validation test were within 
the error margins of the real-life indicators.
CONCLUSION: Using data on the clinical state of individuals with cystic 
fibrosis, it is possible to determine the most effective type of physiotherapy 
exercise for improving overall health state indicators.

DOI: 10.2340/16501977-1124
PMID: 23420272 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


392. Scand J Psychol. 2013 Jun;54(3):236-42. doi: 10.1111/sjop.12039. Epub 2013 Feb 
20.

Social judgment of aggressive language: effects of target and sender sex on the 
evaluation of slurs.

Bendixen M(1), Gabriel U.

Author information:
(1)Norwegian University of Science and Technology, Trondheim.

We investigated the influence of the sex of the target and the sex of the sender 
on the judgment of slurs (verbal derogation). From previous research, we 
selected and clustered slurs into seven categories and respondents rated their 
degree of perceived insult in two consecutive questionnaire surveys (N = 281 and 
N = 224, respectively). Results confirm that slurs are generally judged as being 
more insulting when directed towards females than towards males. In comparison, 
differences in sex of sender were small. When directed towards females, slurs 
referring to "being loose" were rated as the most insulting. For both target 
sexes, remarks referring to homosexuality and physical unattractiveness were 
among those rated as the most insulting. Least insulting were slurs referring to 
unethical acts, lack of intelligence and cowardliness. A sex of respondent 
effect was found, suggesting that women rated slurs generally more insulting 
than men. The pattern of results showed considerable stability across surveys 
attesting for the reliability of the method for measuring the social evaluation 
of slurs.

© 2013 The Authors. Scandinavian Journal of Psychology © 2013 The Scandinavian 
Psychological Associations.

DOI: 10.1111/sjop.12039
PMID: 23421402 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


393. Exp Aging Res. 2013;39(2):125-44. doi: 10.1080/0361073X.2013.761869.

Profiles of cognitive functioning in a population-based sample of centenarians 
using factor mixture analysis.

Davey A(1), Dai T, Woodard JL, Miller LS, Gondo Y, Johnson MA, Hausman DB, 
Martin P, Green RC, Allen RH, Stabler SP, Poon LW; Georgia Centenarian.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Temple University, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
19122, USA. adavey@temple.edu

BACKGROUND/STUDY CONTEXT: The goal of the study was to identify and characterize 
latent profiles (clusters) of cognitive functioning in centenarians and the 
psychometric properties of cognitive measures within them.
METHODS: Data were collected from cross-sectional, population-based sample of 
244 centenarians (aged 98 to 108, 15.8% men, 20.5% African American, 38.0% 
community-dwelling) from 44 counties in northern Georgia participating in the 
Georgia Centenarian Study (2001-2008). Measures included the Mini-Mental State 
Examination (MMSE), Severe Impairment Battery (SIB), Wechsler Adult Intelligence 
Scale-III Similarities subtest (WAIS), Hand Tapping, Behavioral Dyscontrol Scale 
(BDS), Controlled Oral Word Association Test (COWAT), and Fuld Object Memory 
Evaluation (FOME). The Global Deterioration Rating Scale (GDRS) was used to 
independently evaluate criterion-related validity for distinguishing cognitively 
normal and impaired groups. Relevant covariates included directly assessed 
functional status for basic and instrumental activities of daily living (DAFS), 
race, gender, educational attainment, Geriatric Depression Scale Short Form 
(GDS), and vision and hearing problems.
RESULTS: Results suggest two distinct classes of cognitive performance in this 
centenarian sample. Approximately one third of the centenarians show a pattern 
of markedly lower cognitive performance on most measures. Group membership is 
independently well predicted (area under the curve [AUC] = .83) by GDRS scores 
(sensitivity 67.7%, specificity 82.4%). Membership in the lower cognitive 
performance group was more likely for individuals who were older, African 
Americans, had more depressive symptoms, lower plasma folate, carriers of the 
apolipoprotein E (APOE) ε4 allele, facility residents, and individuals who died 
in the 2 years following interview.
CONCLUSIONS: In a population expected to have high prevalence of dementia, 
latent subtypes can be distinguished via factor mixture analysis that provide 
normative values for cognitive functioning. The present study allows estimates 
for normative cognitive performance in this age group.

DOI: 10.1080/0361073X.2013.761869
PMCID: PMC3579538
PMID: 23421635 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


394. BMC Pediatr. 2013 Feb 19;13:25. doi: 10.1186/1471-2431-13-25.

School-age effects of the newborn individualized developmental care and 
assessment program for preterm infants with intrauterine growth restriction: 
preliminary findings.

McAnulty G(1), Duffy FH, Kosta S, Weisenfeld NI, Warfield SK, Butler SC, 
Alidoost M, Bernstein JH, Robertson R, Zurakowski D, Als H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Neurobehavioral Infant and Child Studies, Enders 
Pediatric Research Laboratories, EN-107, Children's Hospital Boston, Harvard 
Medical School, 320 Longwood Avenue, 02115, Boston, MA, USA. 
gloria.mcanulty@childrens.harvard.edu

BACKGROUND: The experience in the newborn intensive care nursery results in 
premature infants' neurobehavioral and neurophysiological dysfunction and poorer 
brain structure. Preterms with severe intrauterine growth restriction are doubly 
jeopardized given their compromised brains. The Newborn Individualized 
Developmental Care and Assessment Program improved outcome at early school-age 
for preterms with appropriate intrauterine growth. It also showed effectiveness 
to nine months for preterms with intrauterine growth restriction. The current 
study tested effectiveness into school-age for preterms with intrauterine growth 
restriction regarding executive function (EF), electrophysiology (EEG) and 
neurostructure (MRI).
METHODS: Twenty-three 9-year-old former growth-restricted preterms, randomized 
at birth to standard care (14 controls) or to the Newborn Individualized 
Developmental Care and Assessment Program (9 experimentals) were assessed with 
standardized measures of cognition, achievement, executive function, 
electroencephalography, and magnetic resonance imaging. The participating 
children were comparable to those lost to follow-up, and the controls to the 
experimentals, in terms of newborn background health and demographics. All 
outcome measures were corrected for mother's intelligence. Analysis techniques 
included two-group analysis of variance and stepwise discriminate analysis for 
the outcome measures, Wilks' lambda and jackknifed classification to ascertain 
two-group classification success per and across domains; canonical correlation 
analysis to explore relationships among neuropsychological, electrophysiological 
and neurostructural domains at school-age, and from the newborn period to 
school-age.
RESULTS: Controls and experimentals were comparable in age at testing, 
anthropometric and health parameters, and in cognitive and achievement scores. 
Experimentals scored better in executive function, spectral coherence, and 
cerebellar volumes. Furthermore, executive function, spectral coherence and 
brain structural measures discriminated controls from experimentals. Executive 
function correlated with coherence and brain structure measures, and with 
newborn-period neurobehavioral assessment.
CONCLUSION: The intervention in the intensive care nursery improved executive 
function as well as spectral coherence between occipital and frontal as well as 
parietal regions. The experimentals' cerebella were significantly larger than 
the controls'. These results, while preliminary, point to the possibility of 
long-term brain improvement even of intrauterine growth compromised preterms if 
individualized intervention begins with admission to the NICU and extends 
throughout transition home. Larger sample replications are required in order to 
confirm these results.
CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: The study is registered as a clinical trial. The 
trial registration number is NCT00914108.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2431-13-25
PMCID: PMC3600990
PMID: 23421857 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


395. Eur J Intern Med. 2013 Jul;24(5):411-5. doi: 10.1016/j.ejim.2013.01.022. Epub 
2013 Feb 17.

The role of patient involvement in the diagnostic process in internal medicine: 
a cognitive approach.

Lucchiari C(1), Pravettoni G.

Author information:
(1)Università degli Studi di Milano, Via Conservatorio 7, Milan, Italy. 
Claudio.lucchiari@unimi.it

Much cognitive and clinical research has addressed clinical reasoning, pointing 
out that physicians often have difficulties in following a linear course when 
making accurate diagnoses. Some authors suspect that physicians make mistakes 
because they unknowingly fail to observe the laws of formal logic and that their 
reasoning becomes influenced by contextual factors. In this paper, we introduce 
some basic principles of the cognitive approach to medical decision making and 
we describe the cognitive balanced model. Then we discuss the relationship 
between construction of mental models, cognitive biases and patient involvement 
by the use of a clinical vignette. Medical decisions may be considered 
fundamentally biased since the use of judgment heuristics and a combination of 
cognitive-related and system-related factors limit physicians' rationality. 
While traditional understanding of clinical reasoning has failed to consider 
contextual factors, most techniques designed to avoid biases seem to fail in 
promoting sound and safer medical practice. In particular, we argue that an 
unbiased process requires the use of a cognitive balanced model, in which 
analytical and intuitive mind skills should be properly integrated. In order to 
improve medical decision making and thereby lessen incidence of adverse events, 
it is fundamental to include the patient perspective in a balanced model. 
Physicians and patients should improve their collective intelligence by sharing 
mental models within a framework of distributed intelligence.

Copyright © 2013 European Federation of Internal Medicine. Published by Elsevier 
B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejim.2013.01.022
PMID: 23422865 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


396. Eur J Hum Genet. 2013 Nov;21(11):1253-9. doi: 10.1038/ejhg.2013.24. Epub 2013 
Feb 20.

The intellectual disability of trisomy 21: differences in gene expression in a 
case series of patients with lower and higher IQ.

Mégarbané A(1), Noguier F, Stora S, Manchon L, Mircher C, Bruno R, Dorison N, 
Pierrat F, Rethoré MO, Trentin B, Ravel A, Morent M, Lefranc G, Piquemal D.

Author information:
(1)1] Institut Jérôme Lejeune, Paris, France [2] Unité de Génétique Médicale et 
Laboratoire Associé INSERM UMR_S910, Beirut, Lebanon.

Trisomy 21 (T21), or Down syndrome (DS), is the most frequent and recognizable 
cause of intellectual disabilities. The level of disability, as evaluated by the 
intelligence quotient (IQ) test, varies considerably between patients 
independent of other factors. To determine the genetic or molecular basis of 
this difference, a high throughput transcriptomic analysis was performed on 
twenty T21 patients with high and low IQ, and 10 healthy controls using Digital 
Gene Expression. More than 90 millions of tags were sequenced in the three 
libraries. A total of 80 genes of potential interest were selected for the qPCR 
experiment validation, and three housekeeping genes were used for normalizing 
purposes. HLA DQA1 and HLA DRB1 were significantly downregulated among the 
patients with a low IQ, the values found in the healthy controls being 
intermediate between those noted in the IQ+ and IQ- T21 patients. Interestingly, 
the intergenic region between these genes contains a binding sequence for the 
CCCTC-binding factor, or CTCF, and cohesin (a multisubunit complex), both of 
which are essential for expression of HLA DQA1 and HLA DRB1 and numerous other 
genes. Our results might lead to the discovery of genes, or genetic markers, 
that are directly involved in several phenotypes of DS and, eventually, to the 
identification of potential targets for therapeutic interventions.

DOI: 10.1038/ejhg.2013.24
PMCID: PMC3798834
PMID: 23422941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


397. Urologia. 2013 Jan-Mar;80(1):42-5. doi: 10.5301/RU.2013.10744. Epub 2013 Feb 14.

Predictive models in urology.

Cestari A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Istituto Auxologico Italiano IRCCS, Milan, Italy. 
a_cestari@yahoo.it

Predictive modeling is emerging as an important knowledge-based technology in 
healthcare. The interest in the use of predictive modeling reflects advances on 
different fronts such as the availability of health information from 
increasingly complex databases and electronic health records, a better 
understanding of causal or statistical predictors of health, disease processes 
and multifactorial models of ill-health and developments in nonlinear computer 
models using artificial intelligence or neural networks. These new 
computer-based forms of modeling are increasingly able to establish technical 
credibility in clinical contexts. The current state of knowledge is still quite 
young in understanding the likely future direction of how this so-called 
'machine intelligence' will evolve and therefore how current relatively 
sophisticated predictive models will evolve in response to improvements in 
technology, which is advancing along a wide front. Predictive models in urology 
are gaining progressive popularity not only for academic and scientific purposes 
but also into the clinical practice with the introduction of several nomograms 
dealing with the main fields of onco-urology.

DOI: 10.5301/RU.2013.10744
PMID: 23423686 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


398. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 2013 Sep;44(3):454-61; discussion 461. doi: 
10.1093/ejcts/ezt062. Epub 2013 Feb 19.

Risk factors for adverse neurocognitive outcomes in school-aged patients after 
the Fontan operation.

Sugimoto A(1), Ota N, Ibuki K, Miyakoshi C, Murata M, Tosaka Y, Yamazaki T, 
Sakamoto K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, Mt. Fuji Shizuoka Children's Hospital, 
Shizuoka, Japan.

OBJECTIVES: As the surgical results for Fontan candidates improve, much 
attention has been given to the long-term cognitive outcomes. This study aimed 
to assess the neurocognitive outcomes after Fontan completion, and to determine 
the factors associated with an extremely low intelligence quotient (IQ <70).
METHODS: A total of 70 local eligible school-aged patients were enrolled in the 
study (hypoplastic left heart syndrome, 17; right atrial isomerism, 15 and 
others, 38). Fontan operations were performed at a median age of 1.8 (range, 
0.5-8.9) years (primary Fontan, 4 of 70 [6%]). The Wechsler Intelligence Test 
was taken at a median age of 9 (range, 5.1-14.4) years for the purpose of 
neurocognitive evaluation. Patients' data were collected from medical records, 
and a retrospective analysis of potential predictors for an IQ <70 was 
performed.
RESULTS: The median full-scale IQ (FSIQ) for the entire cohort was 85 (range, 
43-118). Of the lower order composites, the perceptual reasoning index and the 
working memory index were significantly lower in low-FSIQ patients (P < 0.05). 
Overall, 15 of 70 (21%) of the cohort had an IQ <70. Univariate analysis 
identified three significant risk factors for FSIQ <70 (15 of 70, 21%): body 
weight <2.5 kg at initial palliative surgery (P < 0.05), low 5-min Apgar score 
<4 (P < 0.05) and inter-stage events requiring cardiopulmonary resuscitation 
(CPR) (P < 0.05). No other patient-specific factors (e.g. cardiac morphology) or 
modifiable surgical factors (e.g. the use of hypothermic cardiac arrest) were 
associated with FSIQ <70.
CONCLUSIONS: Low body weight (<2.5 kg) at initial operation, low 5-min Apgar 
score (<4) and inter-stage CPR were significant risk factors for impaired 
neurocognitive outcomes. An evolving strategy for preventing inter-stage CPR may 
improve cognitive outcomes.

DOI: 10.1093/ejcts/ezt062
PMID: 23423918 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


399. J Biosoc Sci. 2013 Jul;45(4):451-9. doi: 10.1017/S0021932013000102. Epub 2013 
Feb 21.

Normative data for IQ, height and head circumference for children in Saudi 
Arabia.

Batterjee AA(1), Khaleefa O, Ashaer K, Lynn R.

Author information:
(1)Dar al Thikr schools for boys, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia. 
a-batterjee@althike.edu.sa

Normative data are reported for intelligence, height and head circumference for 
a sample of 1553 6- to 15-year-olds in Saudi Arabia, and for the correlations 
between these variables. Intelligence was tested with the Standard Progressive 
Matrices, on which the Saudi sample obtained a British IQ of 76.2. There were no 
significant differences in means between boys and girls and differences in 
variability were inconsistent. The heights of the Saudi sample were generally 
lower than those of the American norms. The differences in head circumferences 
between the Saudi children and the American norms were inconsistent. 
Correlations between IQ and height were weaker than those found in other studies 
but correlations between IQ and head circumference were positive.

DOI: 10.1017/S0021932013000102
PMID: 23425395 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


400. Am J Epidemiol. 2013 Jun 15;177(12):1338-47. doi: 10.1093/aje/kws395. Epub 2013 
Feb 20.

Choline intake during pregnancy and child cognition at age 7 years.

Boeke CE(1), Gillman MW, Hughes MD, Rifas-Shiman SL, Villamor E, Oken E.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Nutrition and Epidemiology, Harvard School of Public Health, 
Boston, Massachusetts, USA. caroline.boeke@mail.harvard.edu

Animal models indicate that exposure to choline in utero improves visual memory 
through cholinergic transmission and/or epigenetic mechanisms. Among 895 mothers 
in Project Viva (eastern Massachusetts, 1999-2002 to 2008-2011), we estimated 
the associations between intakes of choline, vitamin B12, betaine, and folate 
during the first and second trimesters of pregnancy and offspring visual memory 
(measured by the Wide Range Assessment of Memory and Learning, Second Edition 
(WRAML2), Design and Picture Memory subtests) and intelligence (measured using 
the Kaufman Brief Intelligence Test, Second Edition (KBIT-2)) at age 7 years. 
Mean second-trimester intakes were 328 (standard deviation (SD), 63) mg/day for 
choline, 10.5 (SD, 5.1) µg/day for vitamin B12, 240 (SD, 104) mg/day for 
betaine, and 1,268 (SD, 381) µg/day for folate. Mean age 7 test scores were 17.2 
(SD, 4.4) points on the WRAML 2 Design and Picture Memory subtests, 114.3 (SD, 
13.9) points on the verbal KBIT-2, and 107.8 (SD, 16.5) points on the nonverbal 
KBIT-2. In a model adjusting for maternal characteristics, the other nutrients, 
and child's age and sex, the top quartile of second-trimester choline intake was 
associated with a child WRAML2 score 1.4 points higher (95% confidence interval: 
0.5, 2.4) than the bottom quartile (P-trend = 0.003). Results for 
first-trimester intake were in the same direction but weaker. Intake of the 
other nutrients was not associated with the cognitive tests administered. Higher 
gestational choline intake was associated with modestly better child visual 
memory at age 7 years.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/kws395
PMCID: PMC3676149
PMID: 23425631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


401. Plant Signal Behav. 2013 May;8(5):e23902. doi: 10.4161/psb.23902. Epub 2013 Feb 
20.

Plant intelligence and attention.

Marder M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Philosophy; The University of the Basque Country; UPV-EHU; 
Ikerbasque: Basque Foundation for Science; Vitoria-Gasteiz, Basque Country.

This article applies the phenomenological model of attention to plant monitoring 
of environmental stimuli and signal perception. Three complementary definitions 
of attention as selectivity, modulation and perdurance are explained with 
reference to plant signaling and behaviors, including foraging, ramet placement 
and abiotic stress communication. Elements of animal and human attentive 
attitudes are compared with plant attention at the levels of cognitive focus, 
context and margin. It is argued that the concept of attention holds the 
potential of becoming a cornerstone of plant intelligence studies.

DOI: 10.4161/psb.23902
PMCID: PMC3906434
PMID: 23425923 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


402. Bioinformatics. 2013 Apr 15;29(8):1098-100. doi: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btt088. 
Epub 2013 Feb 19.

Planform: an application and database of graph-encoded planarian regenerative 
experiments.

Lobo D(1), Malone TJ, Levin M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Center for Regenerative and Developmental Biology, 
Tufts University, 200 Boston Avenue, Medford, MA 02155, USA.

SUMMARY: Understanding the mechanisms governing the regeneration capabilities of 
many organisms is a fundamental interest in biology and medicine. An 
ever-increasing number of manipulation and molecular experiments are attempting 
to discover a comprehensive model for regeneration, with the planarian flatworm 
being one of the most important model species. Despite much effort, no 
comprehensive, constructive, mechanistic models exist yet, and it is now clear 
that computational tools are needed to mine this huge dataset. However, until 
now, there is no database of regenerative experiments, and the current 
genotype-phenotype ontologies and databases are based on textual descriptions, 
which are not understandable by computers. To overcome these difficulties, we 
present here Planform (Planarian formalization), a manually curated database and 
software tool for planarian regenerative experiments, based on a mathematical 
graph formalism. The database contains more than a thousand experiments from the 
main publications in the planarian literature. The software tool provides the 
user with a graphical interface to easily interact with and mine the database. 
The presented system is a valuable resource for the regeneration community and, 
more importantly, will pave the way for the application of novel artificial 
intelligence tools to extract knowledge from this dataset.
AVAILABILITY: The database and software tool are freely available at 
http://planform.daniel-lobo.com.

DOI: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btt088
PMCID: PMC3624808
PMID: 23426257 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


403. Zoo Biol. 2013 May-Jun;32(3):332-41. doi: 10.1002/zoo.21054. Epub 2013 Feb 20.

The value of enrichment to reintroduction success.

Reading RP(1), Miller B, Shepherdson D.

Author information:
(1)Denver Zoological Foundation, Denver, CO 80205, USA. rreading@denverzoo.org

Reintroduction attempts have faced low, albeit improving, success rates, 
especially for threatened and endangered species reintroduced from captivity to 
the wild. This is not only a concern for conservation, as the low success of 
reintroduction also implies an animal welfare issue for the individuals 
concerned. Success rates are particularly low for species that live in complex 
social structures, require greater training during development, and exhibit 
higher levels of intelligence. Aside from mitigating the original cause of a 
species extirpation from an area, behavior factors arguably represent the most 
important aspect influencing an animal's survival following reintroduction. 
Indeed, we previously recommended using behavioral indicators for determining 
relative reintroduction success, especially as practitioners develop and compare 
protocols or if survivorship is difficult to gauge. Strategic enrichment 
programs targeted toward developing specific skills important for survival in 
the wild promise to improve reintroduction success by providing individuals with 
opportunities to develop and improve behavioral skills, such as avoiding 
predation, foraging (especially for predators and primates), interacting in 
social groups, courtship and mating, habitat selection, and learning movement 
and migration routes. Enrichment also improves the physical condition of most 
individuals, which should also increase reintroduction success. Last but not 
least, such programs offer the prospect of improved animal welfare both pre- and 
post-release. We explore how behavioral enrichment has influenced reintroduction 
success and welfare in a variety of different species.

© 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/zoo.21054
PMID: 23426786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


404. Appl Neuropsychol Child. 2013;2(1):1-5. doi: 10.1080/09084282.2011.595460. Epub 
2012 Apr 25.

Long-term cognitive sequelae: abused children without PTSD.

Perna RB(1), Kiefner M.

Author information:
(1)Behavioral Medicine Department, Walton Rehabilitation Hospital, Augusta, GA 
30901, USA. Dr.Perna@juno.com

Many lines of research suggest that childhood abuse and neglect are associated 
with later developing psychiatric diagnoses, academic problems, cognitive 
difficulty, and possible brain changes as measured through brain imaging. Data 
were collected on children (N = 41) who completed a neuropsychological 
evaluation. Of those evaluated, 18 had a documented history of physical and/or 
emotional abuse or significant neglect and 23 had no history of abuse/neglect. 
When controlling for Full-Scale IQ (FSIQ), the abused children had significantly 
lower scores on measures of executive functioning (Wisconsin Card-Sorting 
Test-Categories, Maintenance of Set, and Perseveration and Wechsler Intelligence 
Scale for Children-Fourth Edition Working Memory), and effect sizes were large 
for these variables. Neither group had any test scores significantly lower than 
their FSIQ. Cross-tabulation analyses showed that the abused children were more 
likely to subsequently be diagnosed with a behavioral or emotional disorder. 
Consistent with psychobiological theories and imaging studies, our data are 
suggestive that childhood abuse and neglect are associated with later 
development of behavioral and emotional disorders and areas of cognitive 
weakness and possible impairment. Future research may be conducted to clarify 
these effects, the possibility of a dose-effect relationship, and timing of 
possible critical periods of brain vulnerability.

DOI: 10.1080/09084282.2011.595460
PMID: 23427770 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


405. Appl Neuropsychol Child. 2013;2(1):43-6. doi: 10.1080/21622965.2012.670554. Epub 
2012 Apr 26.

Stability of WISC-IV process scores.

Ryan JJ(1), Umfleet LG, Kane A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychological Science, University of Central Missouri, 
Warrensburg, MO 64093, USA. ryan@ucmo.edu

Forty-three students were administered on two occasions approximately 11 months 
apart the complete Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children-Fourth Edition, 
including the seven process components of Block Design No Time Bonus, Digit Span 
Forward (DSF), Digit Span Backward (DSB), Cancellation Random (CAR), 
Cancellation Structured (CAS), Longest Digit Span Forward (LDSF), and Longest 
Digit Span Backward (LDSB). Mean ages at first and second testing were 7.77 
years (SD = 1.91) and 8.74 years (SD = 1.93), respectively. Mean Full-Scale IQ 
at initial testing was 111.63 (SD = 10.71). Process score stability coefficients 
ranged from .75 on DSF to .32 on CAS. Discrepancy score stabilities ranged from 
.45 on DSF minus DSB to .05 on CAS minus CAR. Approximately 21% of participants 
increased their LDSF on retest, and 16.3% showed a gain on LDSB. Caution must be 
exercised when interpreting process scores, and interpretation of discrepancy 
scores should probably be avoided.

DOI: 10.1080/21622965.2012.670554
PMID: 23427776 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


406. Bioprocess Biosyst Eng. 2014 Jan;37(1):27-36. doi: 10.1007/s00449-013-0925-3. 
Epub 2013 Feb 22.

Software sensors for biomass concentration in a SSC process using artificial 
neural networks and support vector machine.

Acuña G(1), Ramirez C, Curilem M.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Ingeniería Informática, Universidad de Santiago de Chile 
(USACH), Av. Ecuador, 3659, Santiago, Chile, gacuna@usach.cl.

The lack of sensors for some relevant state variables in fermentation processes 
can be coped by developing appropriate software sensors. In this work, NARX-ANN, 
NARMAX-ANN, NARX-SVM and NARMAX-SVM models are compared when acting as software 
sensors of biomass concentration for a solid substrate cultivation (SSC) 
process. Results show that NARMAX-SVM outperforms the other models with an SMAPE 
index under 9 for a 20 % amplitude noise. In addition, NARMAX models perform 
better than NARX models under the same noise conditions because of their better 
predictive capabilities as they include prediction errors as inputs. In the case 
of perturbation of initial conditions of the autoregressive variable, NARX 
models exhibited better convergence capabilities. This work also confirms that a 
difficult to measure variable, like biomass concentration, can be estimated 
on-line from easy to measure variables like CO₂ and O₂ using an adequate 
software sensor based on computational intelligence techniques.

DOI: 10.1007/s00449-013-0925-3
PMID: 23429930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


407. Neuropsychiatr Dis Treat. 2013;9:177-83. doi: 10.2147/NDT.S38676. Epub 2013 Feb 
7.

Semantics, pragmatics, and formal thought disorders in people with 
schizophrenia.

Salavera C(1), Puyuelo M, Antoñanzas JL, Teruel P.

Author information:
(1)Universidad de Zaragoza, Zaragoza, Spain.

BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to analyze how formal thought disorders 
(FTD) affect semantics and pragmatics in patients with schizophrenia.
METHODS: The sample comprised subjects with schizophrenia (n = 102) who met the 
criteria for the disorder according to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of 
Mental Disorders, 4th Edition Text Revision. In the research process, the 
following scales were used: Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) for 
psychopathology measurements; the Scale for the Assessment of Thought, Language, 
and Communication (TLC) for FTD, Word Accentuation Test (WAT), System for the 
Behavioral Evaluation of Social Skills (SECHS), the pragmatics section of the 
Objective Criteria Language Battery (BLOC-SR) and the verbal sections of the 
Wechsler Adults Intelligence Scale (WAIS) III, for assessment of semantics and 
pragmatics.
RESULTS: The results in the semantics and pragmatics sections were inferior to 
the average values obtained in the general population. Our data demonstrated 
that the more serious the FTD, the worse the performances in the Verbal-WAIS 
tests (particularly in its vocabulary, similarities, and comprehension 
sections), SECHS, and BLOC-SR, indicating that FTD affects semantics and 
pragmatics, although the results of the WAT indicated good premorbid language 
skills.
CONCLUSION: The principal conclusion we can draw from this study is the evidence 
that in schizophrenia the superior level of language structure seems to be 
compromised, and that this level is related to semantics and pragmatics; when 
there is an alteration in this level, symptoms of FTD appear, with a 
wide-ranging relationship between both language and FTD. The second conclusion 
is that the subject's language is affected by the disorder and rules out the 
possibility of a previous verbal impairment.

DOI: 10.2147/NDT.S38676
PMCID: PMC3573805
PMID: 23430043


408. Case Rep Neurol Med. 2013;2013:141983. doi: 10.1155/2013/141983. Epub 2013 Feb 
3.

Positron emission tomography-computer tomography scan used as a monitoring tool 
following cellular therapy in cerebral palsy and mental retardation-a case 
report.

Sharma A(1), Sane H, Paranjape A, Gokulchandran N, Kulkarni P, Nagrajan A, Badhe 
P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Services and Clinical Research, NeuroGen, Brain and 
Spine institute Private limited, Surana Sethia-Hospital and Research Centre, 
Suman Nagar, SionTrombay Road, Chembur, Mumbai 400071, Maharashtra, India.

Cerebral palsy (CP) is one of the non-progressive neurological diseases caused 
by damage to the brain tissue at birth, which leads to physical, cognitive and 
perceptive symptoms. Even after lifelong medical and therapeutic management 
there are residual deficits which affect the quality of life of the patients and 
their families. We examined a maximally rehabilitated, 20 year old male 
suffering from CP and Mental Retardation (MR). He had diplegic gait and 
Intelligence Quotient (IQ) score of 44 with affected fine motor activities, 
balance, speech and higher functions. Positron Emission Tomography-Computer 
Tomography (PET-CT) scan identified frontal, temporal, parietal, occipital, left 
cerebellar lobes, amygdala, hippocampus, and parahippocampus as the affected 
areas. He was treated with cellular therapy of Autologous Bone Marrow Derived 
Mono-Nuclear Cells (MNCs) transplantation followed by multidisciplinary 
rehabilitation. Six months following therapy, PET-CT scan showed significant 
increase in metabolic activity in all four lobes, mesial temporal structures and 
left cerebellar hemisphere, also supported by clinical improvement in IQ, social 
behavior, speech, balance and daily functioning. These findings provide 
preliminary evidence to support the efficacy of cellular therapy for the 
treatment of CP with MR. PET-CT scan can also be viewed as an impressive tool to 
monitor the effects of cellular therapy.

DOI: 10.1155/2013/141983
PMCID: PMC3575675
PMID: 23431488


409. Pract Midwife. 2013 Jan;16(1):12-4.

Parting the cloud s: a vision of supervision of midwifery.

Leamon J(1), Ireland J.

Author information:
(1)Bournemouth University.

This paper describes a response to the evidence that midwives often have a 
limited view of the roles and responsibilities of the supervisor of midwives 
(SoM) and SoM team. Using a creative approach (word clouds) and midwife/SoM 
stories, the importance of relationships which are supportive of midwives, women 
and normality is highlighted. Emotional intelligence and interprofessional 
communication are also shown to be key aspects of the role. Supervision has an 
important role to play in supporting midwives' development, promoting normality 
and generally protecting midwives and the public. Reflection using creative 
media can contribute to this.

PMID: 23431661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


410. Child Dev. 2013 Sep-Oct;84(5):1542-53. doi: 10.1111/cdev.12063. Epub 2013 Feb 
24.

Sleep and cognition in preschool years: specific links to executive functioning.

Bernier A(1), Beauchamp MH, Bouvette-Turcot AA, Carlson SM, Carrier J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Montreal, Canada. 
annie.bernier@umontreal.ca

This study investigated the prospective links between sleep in infancy and 
preschoolers' cognitive performance. Mothers of 65 infants completed a sleep 
diary when infants were aged 1 year, and children completed two subscales of the 
Wechsler Preschool and Primary Scale of Intelligence at 4 years, indexing 
general cognitive ability and complex executive functioning. Consistent with 
hypotheses, children getting higher proportions of their sleep at night as 
infants were found to perform better on executive functions, but did not show 
better general cognition. Relations held after controlling for family 
socioeconomic status and prior cognitive functioning. These findings suggest 
that the special importance of sleep for higher order cognition, documented 
among adults, may appear very early in life.

© 2013 The Authors. Child Development © 2013 Society for Research in Child 
Development, Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/cdev.12063
PMID: 23432661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


411. Brain Dev. 2013 Sep;35(8):721-9. doi: 10.1016/j.braindev.2013.01.011. Epub 2013 
Feb 21.

Cognitive outcome after epilepsy surgery in children.

Van Schooneveld MM(1), Braun KP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Psychology, Sector of Neuropsychology, University 
Medical Centre Utrecht (UMCU), The Netherlands. M.vanSchooneveld-2@umcutrecht.nl

The ultimate goal of epilepsy surgery in young children is to stop seizures, 
interrupt the downhill course of the epileptic encephalopathy, and improve 
developmental capacities. Postoperative outcome after childhood epilepsy surgery 
should therefore not only be expressed in terms of seizure freedom, cognitive 
outcome is an equally important outcome measure. Insight in the mutually 
dependent variables that can determine pre and postoperative cognitive 
developmental abilities will improve prediction of outcome and presurgical 
counseling of parents. The purpose of this review is to discuss the literature 
regarding cognitive outcome and the predictors of postoperative cognitive 
functioning after epilepsy surgery in children, particularly those with 
"catastrophic" epilepsy. There are only few studies in which the relation 
between possible determinants and cognitive outcome or change was statistically 
tested in a multivariable manner. Duration of epilepsy, presurgical 
Developmental Quotient (DQ) or Intelligence Quotient (IQ), and postoperative 
seizure freedom were the only factors reported in different studies to be 
independently related to eventual cognitive outcome after epilepsy surgery. 
Underlying etiology, gender, age at surgery, presurgical DQ/IQ, postoperative 
seizure freedom, cessation of antiepileptic medication, and follow-up interval 
have all been described in different surgical cohorts to be independently 
related to a postoperative change of IQ or DQ scores. To appreciate how each of 
the pre-epileptic, presurgical, and postoperative variables may independently 
influence eventual cognitive outcome and postoperative cognitive improvement, we 
need multicenter studies with large homogenous surgical populations, using 
standardized tests and multivariable analyses.

Copyright © 2013 The Japanese Society of Child Neurology. Published by Elsevier 
B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.braindev.2013.01.011
PMID: 23434294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


412. Brain Cogn. 2013 Apr;81(3):337-44. doi: 10.1016/j.bandc.2013.01.004. Epub 2013 
Feb 28.

Pitch discrimination without awareness in congenital amusia: evidence from 
event-related potentials.

Moreau P(1), Jolicœur P, Peretz I.

Author information:
(1)International Laboratory for Brain, Music, and Sound Research (BRAMS), 
Department of Psychology, University of Montreal, Canada. 
patricia.moreau@umontreal.ca

Congenital amusia is a lifelong disorder characterized by a difficulty in 
perceiving and producing music despite normal intelligence and hearing. 
Behavioral data have indicated that it originates from a deficit in fine-grained 
pitch discrimination, and is expressed by the absence of a P3b event-related 
brain response for pitch differences smaller than a semitone and a bigger 
N2b-P3b brain response for large pitch differences as compared to controls. 
However, it is still unclear why the amusic brain overreacts to large pitch 
changes. Furthermore, another electrophysiological study indicates that the 
amusic brain can respond to changes in melodies as small as a quarter-tone, 
without awareness, by exhibiting a normal mismatch negativity (MMN) brain 
response. Here, we re-examine the event-related N2b-P3b components with the aim 
to clarify the cause of the larger amplitude observed by Peretz, Brattico, and 
Tervaniemi (2005), by experimentally matching the number of deviants presented 
to the controls according to the number of deviants detected by amusics. We also 
re-examine the MMN component as well as the N1 in an acoustical context to 
investigate further the pitch discrimination deficit underlying congenital 
amusia. In two separate conditions, namely ignore and attend, we measured the 
MMN, the N1, the N2b and the P3b to tones that deviated by an eight of a tone 
(25 cents) or whole tone (200 cents) from a repeated standard tone. The results 
show a normal MMN, a seemingly normal N1, a normal P3b for the 200 cents pitch 
deviance, and no P3b for the small 25 cents pitch differences in amusics. These 
results indicate that the amusic brain responds to small pitch differences at a 
pre-attentive level of perception, but is unable to detect consciously those 
same pitch deviances at a later attentive level. The results are consistent with 
previous MRI and fMRI studies indicating that the auditory cortex of amusic 
individuals is functioning normally.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bandc.2013.01.004
PMID: 23434917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


413. J Paediatr Child Health. 2013 Mar;49(3):193-8. doi: 10.1111/jpc.12126. Epub 2013 
Feb 26.

Computer use and letter knowledge in pre-school children: a population-based 
study.

Castles A(1), McLean GM, Bavin E, Bretherton L, Carlin J, Prior M, Ukoumunne O, 
Wake M, Reilly S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cognitive Science, ARC Centre of Excellence in Cognition and 
its Disorders, Macquarie University, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. 
anne.castles@mq.edu.au

AIM: To explore the link between pre-school children's general home computer use 
and their letter knowledge.
METHODS: As part of the Early Language in Victoria Study, a community cohort of 
1539 four-year-old children was tested on letter knowledge as well as on 
non-verbal intelligence, oral language, articulation and phonological awareness. 
Performance on these measures was examined in relation to parent-questionnaire 
responses exploring home literacy environment and the amount of time children 
spent using the computer.
RESULTS: A positive correlation between computer use and letter knowledge was 
found, and this association was still evident after controlling for other 
cognitive and environmental factors known to predict the development of letter 
knowledge in young children.
CONCLUSIONS: Greater computer use in pre-school children appears to have a 
positive association with emerging literacy development. Future research needs 
to examine the nature of that association.

© 2013 The Authors. Journal of Paediatrics and Child Health © 2013 Paediatrics 
and Child Health Division (Royal Australasian College of Physicians).

DOI: 10.1111/jpc.12126
PMID: 23437778 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


414. Psychiatry Clin Neurosci. 2013 Feb;67(2):83-91. doi: 10.1111/pcn.12014.

Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children 4th edition-Chinese version index 
scores in Taiwanese children with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder.

Yang P(1), Cheng CP, Chang CL, Liu TL, Hsu HY, Yen CF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Faculty of Medicine, College of Medicine, Kaohsiung 
Medical University & Kaohsiung Medical University Hospital, Kaohsiung, Taiwan.

AIM: The Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children 4th edition-Chinese version 
(WISC-IV-Chinese) has been in clinical use in Taiwan since 2007. Research is 
needed to determine how the WISC-IV, modified from its earlier version, will 
affect its interpretation in clinical practice in a Mandarin-speaking context.
METHODS: We attempted to use WISC-IV-Chinese scores to identify the cognitive 
strengths and weaknesses in 334 Taiwanese children with 
attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Comparison of cognitive 
profiles of WISC-IV-Chinese scores between subtypes of ADHD was also performed.
RESULTS: The results indicated that the four-factor model of the WISC-IV-Chinese 
fitted well for Taiwanese children with ADHD. The profiles showed that 
performance in the index score of the Processing Speed Index was the weakness 
domain for the Taiwanese children with ADHD, as confirmed by two different kinds 
of analytic methods. Cognitive profile analysis of ADHD subtypes revealed 
children with inattentive subtypes to have a greater weakness in processing 
speed performance.
CONCLUSION: The implications of the profiles of the index scores on the 
WISC-IV-Chinese version for Taiwanese children with ADHD were explored.

© 2013 The Authors. Psychiatry and Clinical Neurosciences © 2013 Japanese 
Society of Psychiatry and Neurology.

DOI: 10.1111/pcn.12014
PMID: 23438160 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


415. Mol Med Rep. 2013 Apr;7(4):1067-72. doi: 10.3892/mmr.2013.1336. Epub 2013 Feb 
21.

Association of the COMT Met¹⁵⁸ allele with trait impulsivity in healthy young 
adults.

Soeiro-De-Souza MG(1), Stanford MS, Bio DS, Machado-Vieira R, Moreno RA.

Author information:
(1)Mood Disorders Unit (GRUDA), Department and Institute of Psychiatry, School 
of Medicine, University of São Paulo (HC-FMUSP), São Paulo, Brazil. mgss@usp.br

Dopamine (DA) is considered to be an important neurotransmitter in the control 
of impulsive behavior, however, its underlying mechanisms have not been fully 
elucidated. Catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) is a key enzyme in the 
catabolism of DA within the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and has been suggested to 
play a role in the mediation of impulsive behavior. The COMT single nucleotide 
polymorphism (SNP) rs4680 (Val158Met) Met allele has been shown to decrease COMT 
enzyme activity and is associated with improved PFC cognitive function 
(intelligence and executive functions). Studies have associated the rs4680 
genotype with impulsivity as a symptom in attention deficit hyperactivity 
disorder and substance abuse. However, only a few studies have assessed the 
effects of rs4680 on impulsiveness in healthy subjects, the results of which 
remain controversial. The Barratt Impulsiveness Scale (BIS-11) was applied to 82 
healthy volunteers (including 42 females) who were genotyped for COMT rs4680. 
Subjects carrying the Met/Met genotype scored higher for the BIS-11 second-order 
factor Non-planning than carriers of the Val/Val genotype. No interaction 
between gender genotype was detected. Age, gender and education had no effect on 
the results. The COMT rs4680 Met/Met genotype was associated with higher 
impulsivity on the BIS-11 second-order factor Non-planning. These results 
suggest that COMT enzyme activity may be important in the regulation of 
impulsiveness among young adults. Further studies involving larger samples 
should be conducted to confirm the results of the present study.

DOI: 10.3892/mmr.2013.1336
PMID: 23440431 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


416. Int J Geriatr Psychiatry. 2013 Nov;28(11):1175-81. doi: 10.1002/gps.3940. Epub 
2013 Feb 26.

Executive functioning in older adults with hoarding disorder.

Ayers CR(1), Wetherell JL, Schiehser D, Almklov E, Golshan S, Saxena S.

Author information:
(1)Research Service, Veterans Affairs San Diego Healthcare System, San Diego, 
CA, USA; Psychology Service, Veterans Affairs San Diego Healthcare System, San 
Diego, CA, USA; Department of Psychiatry, University of California, San Diego, 
CA, USA.

BACKGROUND: Hoarding disorder (HD) is a chronic and debilitating psychiatric 
condition. Midlife HD patients have been found to have neurocognitive 
impairment, particularly in areas of executive functioning, but the extent to 
which this is due to comorbid psychiatric disorders has not been clear.
AIMS/METHOD: The purpose of the present investigation was to examine executive 
functioning in geriatric HD patients without any comorbid Axis I disorders (n = 
42) compared with a healthy older adult comparison group (n = 25). We 
hypothesized that older adults with HD would perform significantly worse on 
measures of executive functioning (Wisconsin Card Sort Task [Psychological 
Assessment Resources, Lutz, Florida, USA] ( Psychological Assessment Resources, 
2003) and the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-IV digit span and letter-number 
sequencing tests [Pearson, San Antonio, TX, USA]).
RESULTS: Older adults with HD showed significant differences from healthy older 
controls in multiple aspects of executive functioning. Compared with healthy 
controls, older adults with HD committed significantly more total, 
non-perseverative errors and conceptual level responses on the Wisconsin Card 
Sort Task and had significantly worse performance on the Wechsler Adult 
Intelligence Scale-IV digit span and letter-number sequencing tests. Hoarding 
symptom severity was strongly correlated with executive dysfunction in the HD 
group.
CONCLUSIONS: Compared with demographically-matched controls, older adults with 
HD have dysfunction in several domains of executive functioning including mental 
control, working memory, inhibition, and set shifting. Executive dysfunction is 
strongly correlated with hoarding severity and is not because of comorbid 
psychiatric disorders in HD patients. These results have broad clinical 
implications suggesting that executive functioning should be assessed and taken 
into consideration when developing intervention strategies for older adults with 
HD.

Copyright © 2013 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/gps.3940
PMCID: PMC4037916
PMID: 23440720 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


417. J Strength Cond Res. 2013 Nov;27(11):3221-4. doi: 10.1519/JSC.0b013e31828bed4e.

Reliability of the ALPHA health-related fitness test battery in adolescents with 
Down syndrome.

Tejero-Gonzalez CM(1), Martinez-Gomez D, Bayon-Serna J, Izquierdo-Gomez R, 
Castro-Piñero J, Veiga OL.

Author information:
(1)1Department of Physical Education, Sports, and Human Movement, Autonomous 
University of Madrid, Madrid, Spain; and 2Department of Physical Education, 
University of Cadiz, Puerto Real, Spain.

The Assessing Levels of Physical Activity (ALPHA) health-related fitness test 
battery is a set of reliable, valid, and feasible tests to assess health-related 
physical fitness in children and in adolescents. The aim of this study was to 
examine the reliability of this battery in adolescents with Down syndrome (DS). 
The extended ALPHA health-related fitness test battery was performed twice 
within 1 month in 17 apparently healthy adolescents, aged 12-18 years, with DS 
who had an intelligence quotient ≥ 35. Intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) 
was used to determinate test-retest reliability, and nonparametric Wilcoxon 
signed rank test was used to compare mean differences between measurements. With 
the exception of subscapular skinfold test, which obtained a moderate agreement 
(ICC = 0.64), all tests had a very high reliability: the 20-m shuttle-run test 
(ICC = 0.86), the right handgrip strength test (ICC = 0.86), the left handgrip 
strength test (ICC = 0.86), the standing broad jump test (ICC = 0.85), body mass 
index (ICC = 0.95), waist circumference (ICC = 0.98), triceps skinfold (ICC = 
0.85), and the 4 × 10-m shuttle-run test (ICC = 0.92). There were no significant 
differences (all p > 0.05) in any of the tests. The ALPHA health-related fitness 
battery is reliable for measuring health-related components of fitness in 
adolescents with DS.

DOI: 10.1519/JSC.0b013e31828bed4e
PMID: 23442277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


418. BMC Psychiatry. 2013 Feb 25;13:68. doi: 10.1186/1471-244X-13-68.

Childhood clumsiness and peer victimization: a case-control study of psychiatric 
patients.

Bejerot S(1), Humble MB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, 
Sweden. susanne.bejerot@ki.se

BACKGROUND: Poor motor and social skills as well as peer victimization are 
commonly reported in both ADHD and autism spectrum disorder. Positive 
relationships between poor motor and poor social skills, and between poor social 
skills and peer victimization, are well documented, but the relationship between 
poor motor skills and peer victimization has not been studied in psychiatric 
populations.
METHOD: 277 patients (133 males, 144 females), mean age 31 years, investigated 
for ADHD or autism spectrum disorder in adulthood and with normal intelligence, 
were interviewed about childhood peer victimization and examined for gross motor 
skills. The parents completed a comprehensive questionnaire on childhood 
problems, the Five to Fifteen. The Five to Fifteen is a validated questionnaire 
with 181 statements that covers various symptoms in childhood across eight 
different domains, one of them targeting motor skills. Regression models were 
used to evaluate the relationship between motor skills and the risk and duration 
of peer victimization, adjusted for sex and diagnosis.
RESULTS: Victims were described as more clumsy in childhood than their 
non-victimized counterparts. A significant independent association was found 
between reportedly poor childhood gross motor skills and peer victimization 
(adjusted odds ratio: 2.97 [95% confidence interval: 1.46-6.07], n = 235, p = 
0.003). In adulthood, the victimized group performed worse on vertical jumps, a 
gross motor task, and were lonelier. Other factors that were expected to be 
associated with peer victimization were not found in this highly selected group.
CONCLUSION: Poor gross motor skills constitute a strong and independent risk 
factor for peer victimization in childhood, regardless of sex, childhood 
psychiatric care and diagnosis.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-244X-13-68
PMCID: PMC3602183
PMID: 23442984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


419. Soc Psychiatry Psychiatr Epidemiol. 2013 Dec;48(12):1993-2005. doi: 
10.1007/s00127-013-0666-2. Epub 2013 Feb 27.

Associations between IQ and alcohol consumption in a population of young males: 
a large database analysis.

Müller M(1), Kowalewski R, Metzler S, Stettbacher A, Rössler W, Vetter S.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Disaster and Military Psychiatry, University of Zurich, 
Militärstrasse 8, 8021, Zurich, Switzerland, mario.mueller@access.uzh.ch.

PURPOSE: This study aimed at exploring the relationship between intelligence 
quotient (IQ) and alcohol consumption in a large sample of young males. This 
study explored whether IQ influences alcohol drinking and which pathways might 
be involved. We further hypothesized that IQ differences between lifetime 
abstainers and former drinkers exist, and that they primarily result from 
different group characteristics.
METHOD: Within a psychiatric-epidemiological survey using a cross-sectional 
design IQ-tests were administered to approximately 50,000 Swiss conscripts at 
age of about 20 years. The sample was divided into four alcohol consumption 
categories (rare, occasional, moderate and daily drinking) and two non-drinker 
categories (former drinking and lifetime abstinence). Probabilities for 
different levels of consumption or former drinking against lifetime abstention 
in relation to IQ were estimated using multinomial logistic regression. Models 
were adjusted for education, disability pension, tobacco/cannabis use, 
migration, parental alcohol disorders, and mental health.
RESULTS: After adjusting for confounders full-scale IQ displayed positive 
associations with being a rare (OR 1.13; CI 95 % 1.07-1.19), occasional (OR 
1.41; CI 95 % 1.33-1.48), and moderate drinker (OR 1.53; CI 95 % 1.45-1.62), and 
negative associations with being a former drinker (OR 0.85; CI 95 % 0.79-0.93). 
Daily drinking was positively associated only with the performance subscale IQ 
(OR 1.12; CI 95 % 1.02-1.22). Confounders contributed significantly to the 
IQ-alcohol association and, therefore, highlight the distinction of non-drinkers 
into lifetime abstainers and former drinkers.
CONCLUSIONS: Our data confirmed the positive link between IQ and moderate 
drinking. Lower IQ in non-drinkers, however, seems to be related to earlier 
consumption and the presence of other risk factors.

DOI: 10.1007/s00127-013-0666-2
PMID: 23443272 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


420. Assessment. 2013 Aug;20(4):462-73. doi: 10.1177/1073191113478153. Epub 2013 Feb 
26.

WAIS-IV profile of cognition in schizophrenia.

Michel NM(1), Goldberg JO, Heinrichs RW, Miles AA, Ammari N, McDermid Vaz S.

Author information:
(1)York University, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

The Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale (WAIS) has been used extensively to study 
impairment across a range of cognitive domains in schizophrenia. However, 
cognitive performance among those with the illness has yet to be examined using 
the newest edition of this measure. Hence, the current study aims first, to 
provide WAIS-IV normative data for Canadian individuals with schizophrenia of 
low average intelligence; second, to examine schizophrenia performance on all 
WAIS-IV subtest, index and general intelligence scores relative to healthy 
comparison subjects; and third, to revalidate the pattern of impairment 
identified in this clinical group using the WAIS-III, where processing speed 
(PS) was most affected, followed by working memory (WM), perceptual reasoning 
(PR) and verbal comprehension (VC). The WAIS-IV was administered to outpatients 
with schizophrenia and their performance compared with age, gender, and 
education matched controls. WAIS-IV schizophrenia performance data are provided. 
Analyses revealed significant impairment on several tasks, including the new 
Cancellation subtest and the VC supplemental subtest, Comprehension. At the 
index score level, group differences in PS were significantly larger than those 
observed in all other cognitive domains. Impairments were also observed in WM 
amid relatively preserved performance in VC, thereby confirming the pattern of 
impairment identified using the WAIS-III.

DOI: 10.1177/1073191113478153
PMID: 23443820 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


421. Am J Med Genet A. 2013 Apr;161A(4):737-44. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.a.35788. Epub 2013 
Feb 26.

Pretibial linear vertical creases or indentations (shin dimples) associated with 
arthrogryposis.

Hall JG(1).

Author information:
(1)Departments of Medical Genetics and Pediatrics, University of British 
Columbia and BC Children's Hospital, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. 
jhall@cw.bc.ca

Among 2,500 cases of arthrogryposis, 14 families and 17 individuals were 
identified that had a linear vertical crease (indentation/dimple) along the 
anterior tibia, usually bilaterally. Approximately half had developmental 
delay/intellectual disability and the others had normal intellectual 
development. There are generalized flexion contractures with the legs more 
severely affected than the arms. The ankles are flexed at birth suggesting a 
relationship of contraction of the anterior tibial compartment to the in utero 
development of the anterior tibial crease. Dislocated hips are seen in 60%. 
Hands open with physical therapy and become quite functional. Those with normal 
intelligence are ambulatory, often with a crouching stance. Three families had 
recurrence suggesting a recessive pattern of inheritance. All parents were 
normal. No affected individuals have had offspring. Several have had CGH arrays, 
which were normal. The presence of this crease in cases of arthrogryposis 
appears to be a helpful clinical observation and may even be pathognomonic.

Copyright © 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.a.35788
PMID: 23444103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


422. Pediatr Blood Cancer. 2013 Aug;60(8):1350-7. doi: 10.1002/pbc.24496. Epub 2013 
Feb 26.

Intellectual and academic outcome following two chemotherapy regimens and 
radiotherapy for average-risk medulloblastoma: COG A9961.

Ris MD(1), Walsh K, Wallace D, Armstrong FD, Holmes E, Gajjar A, Zhou T, Packer 
RJ.

Author information:
(1)Departmentof Pediatrics, Baylor College of Medicine and Texas Children's 
Hospital, Houston, Texas, USA.

PURPOSE: Assess the intellectual and academic outcomes as well as risk factors 
associated with treatment for average-risk medulloblastoma in childhood using 
23.4 Gy of craniospinal radiotherapy plus adjuvant chemotherapy.
METHODS: From an overall sample of 379 enrolled in the parent study (COG A9961), 
110 patients received a total of 192 assessments over more than 5 years with 
standardized IQ and academic achievement tests. Random coefficient models of the 
various outcomes were developed that incorporated covariates including 
chemotherapy regimen, age at diagnosis, sex, initial Full Scale IQ, and mutism.
RESULTS: Participants in this study were found to be comparable to the overall 
sample in all demographic, disease, and treatment factors, except there were 
more gross total resections in the subsample undergoing intellectual and 
academic assessment. Major findings include significant decline in both 
intellectual and academic domains over time that were greater in children who 
were younger at diagnosis and had higher initial intelligence test scores. 
Children with mutism were at higher risk for initial effects on intelligence. No 
effects of sex were found.
CONCLUSION: These results show progressive decline over several years 
post-treatment in standardized intellectual and academic scores. Despite recent 
improvements in therapies for these children, most notably a decrease dose of 
craniospinal radiation, they remain at risk. The pursuit of less toxic 
treatments, particularly for younger children, should continue. 
Neuropsychological surveillance should be routine at centers treating children 
with brain tumors.

Copyright © 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/pbc.24496
PMCID: PMC6487237
PMID: 23444345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: Nothing to declare.


423. J Clin Exp Neuropsychol. 2013;35(3):319-28. doi: 10.1080/13803395.2013.771618. 
Epub 2013 Feb 27.

A comparison of the Cambridge Automated Neuropsychological Test Battery (CANTAB) 
with "traditional" neuropsychological testing instruments.

Smith PJ(1), Need AC, Cirulli ET, Chiba-Falek O, Attix DK.

Author information:
(1)Division of Medical Psychology, Duke University School of Medicine, Durham, 
NC 27710, USA. patrick.j.smith@dm.duke.edu

The Cambridge Neuropsychological Test Automated Battery (CANTAB) is frequently 
used in research protocols and increasingly in clinical practice. Despite the 
frequency of its use, important aspects of its measurement validity have yet to 
be established in healthy adults. Two hundred and fifty-five individuals 
completed the CANTAB and traditional neuropsychological tests commonly used in 
clinical practice, including selected subtests from the Wechsler Adult 
Intelligence Scale, Controlled Oral Word Association Test, Animal Naming, Trail 
Making Tests A and B, the Stroop test, and the Green Story Recall test. Results 
showed that CANTAB subtests were modestly correlated with traditional subtests. 
Correlations between CANTAB subtests and traditional subtests were less 
consistent when age and education were controlled for. In conclusion, the CANTAB 
shows modest associations with traditional neuropsychological test measures.

DOI: 10.1080/13803395.2013.771618
PMID: 23444947 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


424. Eur Neurol. 2013;69(5):292-5. doi: 10.1159/000346232. Epub 2013 Feb 23.

The neuroanatomy of herophilus.

Pearce JM(1).

Author information:
(1)Emeritus Consultant Neurologist, Department of Neurology, Hull Royal 
Infirmary, Hull, UK. jms.pearce@me.com

Herophilus (ca. 330 to ca. 260 BC) was one of Hellenistic -Alexandria's renowned 
scholars, a leading physician, often named the 'Father of Anatomy'. From 
cadaveric dissections and possibly vivisection Herophilus considered the 
ventricles to be the seat of the soul, intelligence and mental functions. 
Herophilus introduced the term rete mirabile found in ungulates but not in man, 
as opposed to Galen, who erroneously believed it a vital human network. A 
founder of the principles of observations in science, and an exponent of 
measurements in medicine, his accurate dissections resulted in original 
anatomical discoveries. He distinguished nerves that produce voluntary motion 
from blood vessels, and motor from sensory nerves; the nerves of the spinal cord 
were directly linked to the brain. He identified at least seven pairs of cranial 
nerves. Herophilus demonstrated the meninges, and ventricles, regarding the 
fourth as most important. His name is perpetuated by his accounts of the calamus 
scriptorius and the confluence of venous sinuses the torcular Herophili.

Copyright © 2013 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000346232
PMID: 23445719 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


425. Biol Reprod. 2013 Apr 18;88(4):99. doi: 10.1095/biolreprod.112.104653. Print 
2013 Apr.

Semen parameters can be predicted from environmental factors and lifestyle using 
artificial intelligence methods.

Girela JL(1), Gil D, Johnsson M, Gomez-Torres MJ, De Juan J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, University of Alicante, Alicante, Spain. 
girela@ua.es

Fertility rates have dramatically decreased in the last two decades, especially 
in men. It has been described that environmental factors as well as life habits 
may affect semen quality. In this paper we use artificial intelligence 
techniques in order to predict semen characteristics resulting from 
environmental factors, life habits, and health status, with these techniques 
constituting a possible decision support system that can help in the study of 
male fertility potential. A total of 123 young, healthy volunteers provided a 
semen sample that was analyzed according to the World Health Organization 2010 
criteria. They also were asked to complete a validated questionnaire about life 
habits and health status. Sperm concentration and percentage of motile sperm 
were related to sociodemographic data, environmental factors, health status, and 
life habits in order to determine the predictive accuracy of a multilayer 
perceptron network, a type of artificial neural network. In conclusion, we have 
developed an artificial neural network that can predict the results of the semen 
analysis based on the data collected by the questionnaire. The semen parameter 
that is best predicted using this methodology is the sperm concentration. 
Although the accuracy for motility is slightly lower than that for 
concentration, it is possible to predict it with a significant degree of 
accuracy. This methodology can be a useful tool in early diagnosis of patients 
with seminal disorders or in the selection of candidates to become semen donors.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod.112.104653
PMID: 23446456 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


426. Rev Neurol. 2013 Feb 22;56 Suppl 1:S67-76.

[High intellectual capacity, problem-solving and creativity].

[Article in Spanish]

Sastre-Riba S(1), Pascual-Sufrate MT.

Author information:
(1)Universidad de La Rioja, Logrono, LR, Spain. silvia.sastre@unirioja.es

The aim of the study is focused on the characteristics and components of 
creativity as a multidimensional construct in the context of intelligence, 
divergent thinking and problem solving, and their incorporation into the 
definition and explanation of intellectual functioning of giftedness and talent. 
It shows the progress of the investigation from the initial postulates of 
Guilford about the nature and cognitive processes involved in the creative act, 
its features and components, development and differential expression in the high 
intellectual ability, and the neurological correlates neuropsychological 
research is beginning to show. We present the results obtained with 41 
participants with high intellectual capacity profiles of giftedness or talent of 
6 to 14 years. We measure their cognitive skills through BADyG or DAT tests, and 
creative skills by the Torrance Test of Creative Thinking (TTCT), in two 
measuring points. Analyses show comparatively among high ability profiles: 1) 
the creative measurement stability between the two time points, 2) statistically 
significant differences between the creative components of fluency, flexibility 
and originality, related to the profiles of giftedness or talent (convergent or 
divergent), 3) the statistically significant changes among the scores of the 
creative components, at all ages studied.

PMID: 23446726 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


427. Psychooncology. 2013 Sep;22(9):1979-86. doi: 10.1002/pon.3255. Epub 2013 Feb 28.

Slower processing speed after treatment for pediatric brain tumor and acute 
lymphoblastic leukemia.

Kahalley LS(1), Conklin HM, Tyc VL, Hudson MM, Wilson SJ, Wu S, Xiong X, Hinds 
PS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Section of Psychology, Baylor College of Medicine, 
Houston, TX, USA. Lskahall@texaschildrens.org

BACKGROUND: Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and brain tumor (BT) survivors 
are at risk for post-treatment IQ declines. The extent to which lower scores 
represent global cognitive decline versus domain-specific impairment remains 
unclear. This study examined discrepancies between processing speed and 
estimated IQ (EIQ) scores and identified clinical characteristics associated 
with score discrepancies in a sample of pediatric cancer survivors.
PROCEDURE: Survivors (50 ALL, 50 BT) ages 12-17 years completed cognitive 
testing. The Wechsler Abbreviated Scale of Intelligence provided an untimed 
measure of general reasoning ability (EIQ). The age-appropriate Wechsler 
Intelligence Scale provided a Processing Speed Index (PSI) score. Scores were 
examined and compared.
RESULTS: Survivors' PSI scores were lower than their EIQ scores (BT t(45) =6.3, 
p<0.001; ALL t(49) =6.9, p<0.001). For BT survivors, lower PSI scores were 
associated with history of craniospinal irradiation, t(44) =3.3, p<0.01. For ALL 
survivors, lower PSI scores were associated with male gender, grade retention, 
and time since diagnosis, F(3, 46) =10.1, p<0.001. Clinically significant 
EIQ-PSI score discrepancies were identified in 41.3% of BT and 14.0% of ALL 
survivors.
CONCLUSIONS: Many pediatric BT and ALL survivors exhibit slower processing speed 
than expected for age, whereas general reasoning ability remains largely intact. 
Risk factors associated with larger EIQ-PSI discrepancies include the following: 
BT diagnosis, craniospinal irradiation (BT only), male gender, and younger age 
at diagnosis (ALL only). Grade retention was frequent and associated with lower 
EIQ scores (both groups) and PSI scores (ALL only). Describing post-treatment 
cognitive declines using global measures of intellectual ability may 
underestimate dysfunction or fail to isolate specific underlying deficits 
contributing to impairment.

Copyright © 2013 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/pon.3255
PMCID: PMC3740073
PMID: 23447439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Statement: None to declare.


428. Front Aging Neurosci. 2013 Feb 26;5:5. doi: 10.3389/fnagi.2013.00005. 
eCollection 2013.

Six months of dance intervention enhances postural, sensorimotor, and cognitive 
performance in elderly without affecting cardio-respiratory functions.

Kattenstroth JC(1), Kalisch T, Holt S, Tegenthoff M, Dinse HR.

Author information:
(1)Neural Plasticity Lab, Institute for Neuroinformatics, Ruhr-University Bochum 
Bochum, Germany.

During aging, sensorimotor, cognitive and physical performance decline, but can 
improve by training and exercise indicating that age-related changes are 
treatable. Dancing is increasingly used as an intervention because it combines 
many diverse features making it a promising neuroplasticity-inducing tool. We 
here investigated the effects of a 6-month dance class (1 h/week) on a group of 
healthy elderly individuals compared to a matched control group (CG). We 
performed a broad assessment covering cognition, intelligence, attention, 
reaction time, motor, tactile, and postural performance, as well as subjective 
well-being and cardio-respiratory performance. After 6 months, in the CG no 
changes, or further degradation of performance was found. In the dance group, 
beneficial effects were found for dance-related parameters such as posture and 
reaction times, but also for cognitive, tactile, motor performance, and 
subjective well-being. These effects developed without alterations in the 
cardio-respiratory performance. Correlation of baseline performance with the 
improvement following intervention revealed that those individuals, who 
benefitted most from the intervention, were those who showed the lowest 
performance prior to the intervention. Our findings corroborate previous 
observations that dancing evokes widespread positive effects. The pre-post 
design used in the present study implies that the efficacy of dance is most 
likely not based on a selection bias of particularly gifted individuals. The 
lack of changes of cardio-respiratory fitness indicates that even moderate 
levels of physical activity can in combination with rich sensorimotor, 
cognitive, social, and emotional challenges act to ameliorate a wide spectrum of 
age-related decline.

DOI: 10.3389/fnagi.2013.00005
PMCID: PMC3581819
PMID: 23447455


429. Intelligence. 2013 Mar;41(2):129-140. doi: 10.1016/j.intell.2013.01.002.

Hippocampal structure and human cognition: key role of spatial processing and 
evidence supporting the efficiency hypothesis in females.

Colom R(1), Stein JL(2), Rajagopalan P(2), Martínez K(1), Hermel D(2), Wang 
Y(2), Álvarez-Linera J(3), Burgaleta M(1), Quiroga MÁ(4), Shih PC(1), Thompson 
PM(2).

Author information:
(1)Facultad de Psicología, Universidad Autónoma de Madrid, 28049, Madrid (SPAIN) 
and Fundación CIEN-Fundación Reina Sofía, C/ Valderrebollo, 5, 28031, Madrid 
(SPAIN).
(2)Laboratory of Neuroimaging (LONI), UCLA School of Medicine, 635 Charles E. 
Young Drive South, Suite 225, Los Angeles, CA 90095-7334 (USA).
(3)Hospital Ruber Internacional-Fundación CIEN-Fundación Reina Sofía, C/ 
Valderrebollo, 5, 28031, Madrid (SPAIN).
(4)Facultad de Psicología, Universidad Complutense de Madrid, Campus de 
Somosaguas, 28223, Pozuelo de Alarcón, Madrid (SPAIN).

Here we apply a method for automated segmentation of the hippocampus in 3D 
high-resolution structural brain MRI scans. One hundred and four healthy young 
adults completed twenty one tasks measuring abstract, verbal, and spatial 
intelligence, along with working memory, executive control, attention, and 
processing speed. After permutation tests corrected for multiple comparisons 
across vertices (p < .05) significant relationships were found for spatial 
intelligence, spatial working memory, and spatial executive control. 
Interactions with sex revealed significant relationships with the general factor 
of intelligence (g), along with abstract and spatial intelligence. These 
correlations were mainly positive for males but negative for females, which 
might support the efficiency hypothesis in women. Verbal intelligence, 
attention, and processing speed were not related to hippocampal structural 
differences.

DOI: 10.1016/j.intell.2013.01.002
PMCID: PMC4306583
PMID: 25632167


430. Perspect Psychol Sci. 2013 Mar;8(2):187-9. doi: 10.1177/1745691612443829.

"The Intelligence of Nations": Smart but not Wise-A Comment on Hunt (2012).

Sternberg RJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Oklahoma State University robert.sternberg@okstate.edu.

I argue in this comment that Hunt's analysis of the intelligence of nations is 
smarter than it is wise. It is based on too narrow a conception of intelligence. 
It also conflates correlation and causation with regard to the relation between 
IQ and socially defined success, both individual and familial. I suggest that a 
better approach might be to compare nations as well for their creativity and 
wisdom.

© The Author(s) 2012.

DOI: 10.1177/1745691612443829
PMID: 26172499


431. Big Data. 2013 Mar;1(1):65-70. doi: 10.1089/big.2012.0003. Epub 2013 Jan 25.

Symposium on Human-Computer Information Retrieval.

Tunkelang D(1), Capra R(2), Golovchinsky G(3), Kules B(4), Smith C(5), White 
R(6).

Author information:
(1)1 LinkedIn , Mountain View, California.
(2)2 School of Information and Library Science, University of North Carolina at 
Chapel Hill , Chapel Hill, North Carolina.
(3)3 FXPAL , Palo Alto, California.
(4)4 School of Library and Information Science, The Catholic University of 
America , Washington, D.C.
(5)5 School of Library and Information Science, Kent State University , Kent, 
Ohio.
(6)6 Microsoft Research , Redmond, Washington.

Human-computer information retrieval (HCIR) is the study of information 
retrieval techniques that integrate human intelligence and algorithmic search to 
help people explore, understand, and use information. Since 2007, we have held 
an annual gathering of researchers and practitioners to advance the state of the 
art in this field. This meeting report summarizes the history of the HCIR 
symposium and emphasizes its relevance to the data science community.

DOI: 10.1089/big.2012.0003
PMID: 27447040


432. Obstet Med. 2013 Mar;6(1):20-25. doi: 10.1177/1753495X12472643. Epub 2013 Mar 1.

Maternal Body Mass Index during Pregnancy and Offspring Neurocognitive 
Development.

Craig WY(1), Palomaki GE(2), Neveux LM(2), Haddow JE(2).

Author information:
(1)Foundation for Blood Research, Scarborough, ME.
(2)Women & Infants Hospital/Alpert Medical School of Brown University, 
Providence, RI, USA.

BACKGROUND: This hypothesis generating study explores second trimester maternal 
body mass index (BMI) during pregnancy and offspring neurocognitive development.
METHODS: Mothers and offspring served as controls in two earlier studies: 101 
children at age two years and 118 children at age eight years.
RESULTS: Frequency of maternal BMI ≥30 kg/m2 increased from 10% in 1987-1990 to 
30% in 2004-2006 (P < 0.001); the socioeconomic gradient became more pronounced. 
At age two, one or more BSID-III (Bayley Scales of Infant Development, 3rd 
Edition) scores <85 were more frequent with higher maternal BMI (P = 0.029); 
regression analysis suggested an inverse relationship between language scores 
and BMI (P = 0.054). Among eight-year-olds, one or more WISC-III (Wechsler 
Intelligence Scale for Children, 3rd edition) scores <85 increased with maternal 
BMI (P = 0.017); regression analysis showed an inverse relationship between 
performance subscale IQ score and BMI (P = 0.023).
CONCLUSION: Second trimester maternal obesity may be an independent risk factor 
for some aspects of children's neurocognitive development. Further study is 
indicated.

DOI: 10.1177/1753495X12472643
PMCID: PMC5052772
PMID: 27757147


433. Sensors (Basel). 2013 Feb 28;13(3):2862-83. doi: 10.3390/s130302862.

An automatic weighting system for wild animals based in an artificial neural 
network: how to weigh wild animals without causing stress.

Larios DF(1), Rodríguez C, Barbancho J, Baena M, Angel ML, Marín J, León C, 
Bustamante J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Electronic Technology, University of Seville, 41011 Seville, 
Spain. dlarios@us.es

This paper proposes a novel and autonomous weighing system for wild animals. It 
allows evaluating changes in the body weight of animals in their natural 
environment without causing stress. The proposed system comprises a smart scale 
designed to estimate individual body weights and their temporal evolution in a 
bird colony. The system is based on computational intelligence, and offers 
valuable large amount of data to evaluate the relationship between long-term 
changes in the behavior of individuals and global change. The real deployment of 
this system has been for monitoring a breeding colony of lesser kestrels (Falco 
naumanni) in southern Spain. The results show that it is possible to monitor 
individual weight changes during the breeding season and to compare the weight 
evolution in males and females.

DOI: 10.3390/s130302862
PMCID: PMC3658719
PMID: 23449117 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


434. PLoS One. 2013;8(2):e56961. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0056961. Epub 2013 Feb 25.

Community intelligence in knowledge curation: an application to managing 
scientific nomenclature.

Dai L(1), Xu C, Tian M, Sang J, Zou D, Li A, Liu G, Chen F, Wu J, Xiao J, Wang 
X, Yu J, Zhang Z.

Author information:
(1)School of Computer Science and Technology, Beijing Institute of Technology, 
Beijing, China.

Harnessing community intelligence in knowledge curation bears significant 
promise in dealing with communication and education in the flood of scientific 
knowledge. As knowledge is accumulated at ever-faster rates, scientific 
nomenclature, a particular kind of knowledge, is concurrently generated in all 
kinds of fields. Since nomenclature is a system of terms used to name things in 
a particular discipline, accurate translation of scientific nomenclature in 
different languages is of critical importance, not only for communications and 
collaborations with English-speaking people, but also for knowledge 
dissemination among people in the non-English-speaking world, particularly young 
students and researchers. However, it lacks of accuracy and standardization when 
translating scientific nomenclature from English to other languages, especially 
for those languages that do not belong to the same language family as English. 
To address this issue, here we propose for the first time the application of 
community intelligence in scientific nomenclature management, namely, harnessing 
collective intelligence for translation of scientific nomenclature from English 
to other languages. As community intelligence applied to knowledge curation is 
primarily aided by wiki and Chinese is the native language for about one-fifth 
of the world's population, we put the proposed application into practice, by 
developing a wiki-based English-to-Chinese Scientific Nomenclature Dictionary 
(ESND; http://esnd.big.ac.cn). ESND is a wiki-based, publicly editable and 
open-content platform, exploiting the whole power of the scientific community in 
collectively and collaboratively managing scientific nomenclature. Based on 
community curation, ESND is capable of achieving accurate, standard, and 
comprehensive scientific nomenclature, demonstrating a valuable application of 
community intelligence in knowledge curation.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0056961
PMCID: PMC3581571
PMID: 23451119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The co-author Zhang Zhang 
is a PLOS ONE Editorial Board member. This does not alter the authors’ adherence 
to all the PLOS ONE policies on sharing data and materials.


435. J Child Psychol Psychiatry. 2013 Jul;54(7):733-44. doi: 10.1111/jcpp.12060. Epub 
2013 Mar 2.

Higher order language competence and adolescent mental health.

Cohen NJ(1), Farnia F, Im-Bolter N.

Author information:
(1)Hincks-Dellcrest Centre/Institute, University of Toronto, 114 Maitland 
Street, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. nancy.cohen@utoronto.ca

Comment in
    J Child Psychol Psychiatry. 2013 Jul;54(7):705-6.

BACKGROUND: Clinic and community-based epidemiological studies have shown an 
association between child psychopathology and language impairment. The demands 
on language for social and academic adjustment shift dramatically during 
adolescence and the ability to understand the nonliteral meaning in language 
represented by higher order language becomes essential.
OBJECTIVES:  : This article reports on the association between difficulties in 
higher order language skills, reading, cognition, and social-emotional 
adjustment in adolescents.
METHOD:  : 144 clinic-referred and 186 comparison youth aged 12-18 years were 
administered a battery of standardized tests of intelligence, working memory, 
structural and higher order language, and reading achievement. Parent ratings on 
the Child Behavior Checklist were used as a measure of severity of 
social-emotional problems.
RESULTS:  : Clinic-referred youth scored significantly lower than comparison 
youth on measures of structural and higher order language, working memory, and 
reading. Of the clinic-referred youth, 45% had some type of higher order 
language impairment, whereas this was the case for 15% of youth in the 
comparison group. Lower levels of nonverbal ability and working memory as well 
as lower level of mothers' education were associated with greater risk of having 
higher order language impairment.
CONCLUSIONS:  : Findings have implications for practitioners' seeking to 
understand and treat adolescents since therapeutic techniques rely on skills 
where higher order language is at play including the ability to discuss opinions 
flexibly and to weigh interpretations. Therapists must be aware that there are 
areas that have potential for miscommunication with some adolescents and where 
inaccurate inferences may be made about their behavior. Furthermore, educators 
must consider resources for youth who may increasingly struggle in high school 
because of such difficulties.

© 2013 The Authors. Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry © 2013 
Association for Child and Adolescent Mental Health.

DOI: 10.1111/jcpp.12060
PMID: 23451725 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


436. J Neurosurg. 2013 May;118(5):1023-9. doi: 10.3171/2013.1.JNS121668. Epub 2013 
Mar 1.

Subclinical ischemia verified by somatosensory evoked potential amplitude 
reduction during carotid endarterectomy: negative effects on cognitive 
performance.

Inoue T(1), Ohwaki K, Tamura A, Tsutsumi K, Saito I, Saito N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Fuji Brain Institute and Hospital, Shizuoka, 
Japan. t.inoue-fujinsu@beige.plala.or.jp

OBJECT: Although the mechanisms underlying neurocognitive changes after carotid 
endarterectomy (CEA) are poorly understood, intraoperative ischemia and 
postoperative hemodynamic changes may play a role.
METHODS: Data from 81 patients who underwent unilateral CEA with routine shunt 
use for carotid artery stenosis were retrospectively evaluated. These patients 
underwent neuropsychological examinations (NPEs), including assessment by the 
Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Third Edition and the Wechsler Memory 
Scale-Revised before and 6 months after CEA. results of NPEs were converted into 
z scores, from which pre- and postoperative cognitive composite scores (CSpre 
and CSpost) were obtained. The association between the change of CS between pre- 
and postoperative NPEs (that is, CSpost - CSpre [CSpost - pre]) and various 
variables was assessed. These latter variables included ischemic or hemodynamic 
parameters such as 1) intraoperative hypoperfusion detected by somatosensory 
evoked potential (SSEP) change-that is, an SSEP amplitude reduction more than 
50% and longer than 5 minutes (SSEP< 50%, > 5 min); 2) new lesions on 
postoperative diffusion-weighted imaging studies; and 3) preexisting hemodynamic 
impairment. Paired t-tests of the NPE scores were performed to determine the net 
effect of these factors on neurocognitive function at 6 months.
RESULTS: A significant CSpost - pre decrease was observed in patients with SSEP< 
50%, > 5 min when compared with those without SSEP< 50%, > 5 min (-0.225 vs 
0.018; p = 0.012). Multiple regression analysis demonstrated that SSEP< 50%, > 5 
min independently and negatively correlated with CSpost - pre (p = 0.0020). In 
the group-rate analysis, postoperative NPE scores were significantly improved 
relative to preoperative scores.
CONCLUSIONS: Hypoperfusion during cross-clamping, as verified by SSEP amplitude 
reduction, plays a significant role in the subtle decline in cognition following 
CEA. However, this detrimental effect was small, and various confounding factors 
were present. Based on these observations and the group-rate analysis, the 
authors conclude that successful unilateral CEA with routine shunt use does not 
adversely affect postoperative cognitive function.

DOI: 10.3171/2013.1.JNS121668
PMID: 23451902 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


437. J Pediatr. 2013 Aug;163(2):555-60. doi: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2013.01.037. Epub 2013 
Feb 26.

Tick-borne encephalitis carries a high risk of incomplete recovery in children.

Fowler Å(1), Forsman L, Eriksson M, Wickström R.

Author information:
(1)Neuropediatric Unit, Department of Women's and Children's Health, Karolinska 
Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden. asa.fowler@ki.se

OBJECTIVE: To examine long-term outcome after tick-borne encephalitis (TBE) in 
children.
STUDY DESIGN: In this population-based cohort, 55 children with TBE with central 
nervous system involvement infected during 2004-2008 were evaluated 2-7 years 
later using the Rivermead post-concussion symptoms questionnaire (n = 42) and 
the Behavior Rating Inventory of Executive Functioning for parents and teachers 
(n = 32, n = 22, respectively). General cognitive ability was investigated in a 
subgroup (n = 20) using the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children, 4th 
edition.
RESULTS: At long-term follow-up, two-thirds of the children experienced residual 
problems, the main complaints being cognitive problems, headache, fatigue, and 
irritability. More than one-third of the children were reported by parents or 
teachers to have problems with executive functioning on the Behavior Rating 
Inventory of Executive Functioning, mainly in areas involving initiating and 
organizing activities and working memory. Children who underwent Wechsler 
Intelligence Scale for Children, 4th edition testing had a significantly lower 
working memory index compared with reference norms.
CONCLUSION: A large proportion of children experience an incomplete recovery 
after TBE with central nervous system involvement. Cognitive problems in areas 
of executive function and working memory are the most prevalent. Even if 
mortality and severe sequelae are low in children after TBE, all children should 
be followed after TBE to detect cognitive deficits.

Copyright © 2013 Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2013.01.037
PMID: 23452585 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


438. J Am Acad Child Adolesc Psychiatry. 2013 Mar;52(3):290-299.e2. doi: 
10.1016/j.jaac.2012.12.010. Epub 2013 Feb 7.

Intrinsic functional connectivity of amygdala-based networks in adolescent 
generalized anxiety disorder.

Roy AK(1), Fudge JL, Kelly C, Perry JS, Daniele T, Carlisi C, Benson B, 
Castellanos FX, Milham MP, Pine DS, Ernst M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Fordham University, Bronx, NY 10458, USA. 
aroy3@fordham.edu

OBJECTIVE: Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) typically begins during 
adolescence and can persist into adulthood. The pathophysiological mechanisms 
underlying this disorder remain unclear. Recent evidence from resting state 
functional magnetic resonance imaging (R-fMRI) studies in adults suggests 
disruptions in amygdala-based circuitry; the present study examines this issue 
in adolescents with GAD.
METHOD: Resting state fMRI scans were obtained from 15 adolescents with GAD and 
20 adolescents without anxiety who were group matched on age, sex, scanner, and 
intelligence. Functional connectivity of the centromedial, basolateral, and 
superficial amygdala subdivisions was compared between groups. We also assessed 
the relationship between amygdala network dysfunction and anxiety severity.
RESULTS: Adolescents with GAD exhibited disruptions in amygdala-based intrinsic 
functional connectivity networks that included regions in medial prefrontal 
cortex, insula, and cerebellum. Positive correlations between anxiety severity 
scores and amygdala functional connectivity with insula and superior temporal 
gyrus were also observed within the GAD group. There was some evidence of 
greater overlap (less differentiation of connectivity patterns) of the right 
basolateral and centromedial amygdala networks in the adolescents with, relative 
to those without, GAD.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that adolescents with GAD manifest 
alterations in amygdala circuits involved in emotion processing, similar to 
findings in adults. In addition, disruptions were observed in amygdala-based 
networks involved in fear processing and the coding of interoceptive states.

Copyright © 2013 American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jaac.2012.12.010
PMCID: PMC3760686
PMID: 23452685 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure: Drs. Roy, Fudge, Kelly, Benson, 
Castellanos, Milham, Pine, and Ernst, and Mr. Perry, Ms. Daniele, and Ms. 
Carlisi report no biomedical financial interests or potential conflicts of 
interest.


439. J Pediatr. 2013 Aug;163(2):460-4. doi: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2013.01.052. Epub 2013 
Feb 28.

The Global School Adaptation score: a new neurodevelopmental assessment tool for 
very preterm children at five years of age.

Boussicault G(1), Nguyen The Tich S, Branger B, Guimard P, Florin A, Rozé JC, 
Flamant C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neonatal Medicine, University Hospital, Nantes, France.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the usefulness of a neurodevelopmental assessment tool 
consisting of a questionnaire administered to teachers to measure the Global 
School Adaptation (GSA) scores of very preterm children at the age of 5 years.
STUDY DESIGN: A sample of 445 very preterm children (<35 weeks of gestation) was 
assessed at 5 years of age using GSA and IQ scores. According to the consistency 
between the scores, children were determined to be well classified, 
intermediately classified, or misclassified. The differences between groups were 
assessed through univariate and multivariate logistic regression.
RESULTS: The GSA score was highly or intermediately consistent with the IQ score 
for 89.2% of the children, and 10.8% were considered misclassified. Children 
with a higher GSA than IQ score had more autonomy and self-confidence (P < .01), 
and those with a lower GSA than IQ score had more behavioral problems (P < .01). 
Analysis by logistic regression showed that sex and gestational age 
significantly affected the consistency between the 2 scores. Thus, girls were 
less likely to have a lower GSA than IQ score (aOR = 0.45; 95% CI: 0.24-0.84; P 
= .01), and a lower gestational age significantly increased the likelihood of 
having a higher GSA than IQ score (for children born between 24 and 28 weeks of 
gestation: aOR = 2.70; 95% CI: 1.23-5.92; P = .01).
CONCLUSIONS: The GSA score is a simple, inexpensive, and reliable screening tool 
for assessing neurodevelopment in very preterm children at 5 years of age.

Copyright © 2013 Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2013.01.052
PMID: 23453546 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


440. J Pediatr. 2013 Aug;163(2):447-53. doi: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2013.01.060. Epub 2013 
Feb 28.

Small for gestational age and intrauterine growth restriction decreases 
cognitive function in young adults.

Løhaugen GC(1), Østgård HF, Andreassen S, Jacobsen GW, Vik T, Brubakk AM, 
Skranes J, Martinussen M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Children's and Women's Health, Norwegian 
University of Science and Technology, Trondheim, Norway.

OBJECTIVE: To examine the effect on adult cognitive function of being born small 
for gestational age (SGA), and to evaluate whether cognitive function is related 
to intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR).
STUDY DESIGN: Fifty-nine SGA subjects (birth weight <10th percentile) and 81 
controls (birth weight ≥10th percentile) born at term underwent cognitive 
assessment with the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Third Edition at age 19-20 
years. Repeated ultrasound measures of fetal growth were available for weeks 25, 
33, and 37 in a subgroup of 29 SGA subjects and 75 control subjects, and these 
were data used to dichotomize the 29 SGA subjects into those with IUGR and those 
without IUGR. IUGR was defined as growth deviating more than -2 SD from the mean 
value of the control group. The effect of maternal smoking during pregnancy was 
considered as well. Group differences were analyzed using a general linear 
model, controlling for sex and socioeconomic status.
RESULTS: The SGA group had lower full IQ scores than the control group (mean 
difference, -6.3; 95% CI, -2.8 to -9.7; P = .001), including lower scores on 6 
of the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Third Edition subtests. In the SGA 
subgroup with repeated ultrasound measures, 6 of 29 subjects (21%) had IUGR, and 
these subjects also had a lower IQ compared with controls (mean difference, 
-14.0; 95% CI: -4.8 to -23.3; P = .003). Maternal smoking during pregnancy was 
related to lower IQ in the control group but not in the SGA group, independent 
of IUGR or non-IUGR status.
CONCLUSION: IQ scores were lower in young adults born SGA compared with 
controls. Our analysis suggest that this outcome is related to IUGR.

Copyright © 2013 Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2013.01.060
PMID: 23453550 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


441. Neural Netw. 2013 Apr;40:52-72. doi: 10.1016/j.neunet.2013.01.007. Epub 2013 Jan 
21.

Intelligence and embodiment: a statistical mechanics approach.

Chinea A(1), Korutcheva E.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Fisica Fundamental, Facultad de Ciencias UNED, Paseo Senda 
del Rey , 28040-Madrid, Spain. alejandro.1138@gmail.com

Evolutionary neuroscience has been mainly dominated by the principle of 
phylogenetic conservation, specifically, by the search for similarities in brain 
organization. This principle states that closely related species tend to be 
similar because they have a common ancestor. However, explaining, for instance, 
behavioral differences between humans and chimpanzees, has been revealed to be 
notoriously difficult. In this paper, the hypothesis of a common 
information-processing principle exploited by the brains evolved through natural 
evolution is explored. A model combining recent advances in cognitive psychology 
and evolutionary neuroscience is presented. The macroscopic effects associated 
with the intelligence-like structures postulated by the model are analyzed from 
a statistical mechanics point of view. As a result of this analysis, some 
plausible explanations are put forward concerning the disparities and 
similarities in cognitive capacities which are observed in nature across 
species. Furthermore, an interpretation on the efficiency of brain's 
computations is also provided. These theoretical results and their implications 
against modern theories of intelligence are shown to be consistent with the 
formulated hypothesis.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neunet.2013.01.007
PMID: 23454920 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


442. Nurs Adm Q. 2013 Apr-Jun;37(2):95-104. doi: 10.1097/NAQ.0b013e3182869e17.

Value-based resource management: a model for best value nursing care.

Caspers BA(1), Pickard B.

Author information:
(1)Nursing Operations and Acute Care Practice, Catholic Health Initiatives, 
Denver, Colorado 80112, USA. BarbaraCaspers@CatholicHealth.net

With the health care environment shifting to a value-based payment system, 
Catholic Health Initiatives nursing leadership spearheaded an initiative with 14 
hospitals to establish best nursing care at a lower cost. The implementation of 
technology-enabled business processes at point of care led to a new model for 
best value nursing care: Value-Based Resource Management. The new model 
integrates clinical patient data from the electronic medical record and embeds 
the new information in care team workflows for actionable real-time decision 
support and predictive forecasting. The participating hospitals reported 
increased patient satisfaction and cost savings in the reduction of overtime and 
improvement in length of stay management. New data generated by the initiative 
on nursing hours and cost by patient and by population (Medicare severity 
diagnosis-related groups), and patient health status outcomes across the acute 
care continuum expanded business intelligence for a value-based population 
health system.

DOI: 10.1097/NAQ.0b013e3182869e17
PMID: 23454987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


443. Nurs Adm Q. 2013 Apr-Jun;37(2):144-51. doi: 10.1097/NAQ.0b013e318286de5f.

Building emotional intelligence: a strategy for emerging nurse leaders to reduce 
workplace bullying.

Bennett K(1), Sawatzky JA.

Author information:
(1)University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Canada R3L 2T3. umbennek@cc.umanitoba.ca

Bullying is one of the most concerning forms of aggression in health care 
organizations. Conceptualized as an emotion-based response, bullying is often 
triggered by today's workplace challenges. Unfortunately, workplace bullying is 
an escalating problem in nursing. Bullying contributes to unhealthy and toxic 
environments, which in turn contribute to ineffective patient care, increased 
stress, and decreased job satisfaction among health care providers. These equate 
to a poor workforce environment, which in turn increases hospital costs when 
nurses choose to leave. Nurse managers are in positions of power to recognize 
and address negative workplace behaviors, such as bullying. However, emerging 
leaders in particular may not be equipped with the tools to deal with bullying 
and consequently may choose to overlook it. Substantive evidence from other 
disciplines supports the contention that individuals with greater emotional 
intelligence are better equipped to recognize early signs of negative behavior, 
such as bullying. Therefore, fostering emotional intelligence in emerging nurse 
leaders may lead to less bullying and more positive workplace environments for 
nurses in the future.

DOI: 10.1097/NAQ.0b013e318286de5f
PMID: 23454994 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


444. Acta Cardiol. 2013 Feb;68(1):23-30. doi: 10.1080/ac.68.1.2959628.

Neurobehavioural functioning in school-aged children with a corrected septal 
heart defect.

Sarrechia I(1), Miatton M, De Wolf D, François K, Vingerhoets G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, Ghent University, Ghent, Belgium. 
iemke.sarrechia@ugent.be

OBJECTIVE: This cross-sectional study assesses neurobehavioural consequences 
after surgical treatment for acyanotic congenital heart defect at the age of 5 
to 12 years.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Fifteen school-aged children who underwent surgical 
intervention for a septal heart defect were examined with the short form 
Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children-third Edition, Dutch Version 
(WISC-III-NL), and a neuropsychological assessment with the Nepsy. Performances 
were compared to a matched healthy control group. Parents completed the Child 
Behaviour Checklist and were interviewed to rate the child's cognitive and 
emotional functioning. Children older than eight years filled out a 
self-perception questionnaire. Analyses revealed significant differences between 
the study groups on several cognitive and behavioural domains. Estimated 
intelligence scores were in the average range. Domains of attention and fine 
motor skills, and the subtest level of language abilities, elicited significant 
group differences, with less favourable outcomes for the patient group. Parents 
of patients reported more withdrawn behaviour, social difficulties, thought 
problems, attentional shortcomings and lower competence for activities. These 
parents also indicated poor problem solving skills in everyday activities.
CONCLUSIONS: Surgical patients displayed subtle neuropsychological difficulties 
concerning language and fine motor skills. Behavioural difficulties were common. 
Future research should address risk factors for adverse neurobehavioural 
manifestations in this patient group.

DOI: 10.1080/ac.68.1.2959628
PMID: 23457906 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


445. Can J Exp Psychol. 2013 Mar;67(1):11-18. doi: 10.1037/a0031569.

The costs and benefits of mind-wandering: a review.

Mooneyham BW(1), Schooler JW(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychological & Brain Sciences.

Substantial evidence suggests that mind-wandering typically occurs at a 
significant cost to performance. Mind-wandering-related deficits in performance 
have been observed in many contexts, most notably reading, tests of sustained 
attention, and tests of aptitude. Mind-wandering has been shown to negatively 
impact reading comprehension and model building, impair the ability to withhold 
automatized responses, and disrupt performance on tests of working memory and 
intelligence. These empirically identified costs of mind-wandering have led to 
the suggestion that mind-wandering may represent a pure failure of cognitive 
control and thus pose little benefit. However, emerging evidence suggests that 
the role of mind-wandering is not entirely pernicious. Recent studies have shown 
that mind-wandering may play a crucial role in both autobiographical planning 
and creative problem solving, thus providing at least two possible adaptive 
functions of the phenomenon. This article reviews these observed costs and 
possible functions of mind-wandering and identifies important avenues of future 
inquiry.

DOI: 10.1037/a0031569
PMID: 23458547 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


446. Behav Ecol Sociobiol. 2013 Mar 1;67(3):373-381. doi: 10.1007/s00265-012-1457-6. 
Epub 2012 Dec 1.

FITNESS BENEFITS OF COALITIONARY AGGRESSION IN MALE CHIMPANZEES.

Gilby IC(1), Brent LJ, Wroblewski EE, Rudicell RS, Hahn BH, Goodall J, Pusey AE.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Evolutionary Anthropology, Duke University, Durham, NC, 27708, USA.

Coalitionary aggression occurs when at least two individuals jointly direct 
aggression at one or more conspecific targets. Scientists have long argued that 
this common form of cooperation has positive fitness consequences. Nevertheless, 
despite evidence that social bond strength (which is thought to promote 
coalition formation) is correlated with fitness in primates, cetaceans, and 
ungulates, few studies have directly examined whether coalitionary aggression 
improves reproductive success. We tested the hypothesis that among free-ranging 
chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes schweinfurthii), participation in coalitionary 
aggression increases reproductive output. Using 14 years of genetic and 
behavioral data from Gombe National Park, Tanzania, we found that coalitionary 
aggression increased a male's chances of A) siring offspring, compared to other 
males of similar dominance rank, and B) ascending in rank, a correlate of future 
reproductive output. Because male chimpanzees form coalitions with many others 
within a complex network, we used social network analysis to identify the types 
of connections correlated with these fitness benefits. The beneficiaries of 
coalitionary aggression were males with the highest 'betweenness' - that is, 
those who tended to have coalition partners who themselves did not form 
coalitions with each other. This suggests that beyond simply recognizing 
third-party relationships, chimpanzees may use this knowledge to choose 
coalition partners. If so, this is a significant step forward in our knowledge 
of the adaptive value of social intelligence. Regardless of mechanism, however, 
this is the first evidence of genetic benefits of coalitionary aggression in 
this species, and therefore has important implications for understanding the 
evolution of cooperation.

DOI: 10.1007/s00265-012-1457-6
PMCID: PMC3582680
PMID: 23459197


447. Pediatrics. 2013 Apr;131(4):e1128-34. doi: 10.1542/peds.2012-2221. Epub 2013 Mar 
4.

Predictors of phrase and fluent speech in children with autism and severe 
language delay.

Wodka EL(1), Mathy P, Kalb L.

Author information:
(1)Center for Autism and Related Disorders, Kennedy Krieger Institute, 3901 
Greenspring Ave, Baltimore, MD 21211, USA. wodka@kennedykrieger.org

OBJECTIVE: To examine the prevalence and predictors of language attainment in 
children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and severe language delay. We 
hypothesized greater autism symptomatology and lower intelligence among children 
who do not attain phrase/fluent speech, with nonverbal intelligence and social 
engagement emerging as the strongest predictors of outcome.
METHODS: Data used for the current study were from 535 children with ASD who 
were at least 8 years of age (mean = 11.6 years, SD = 2.73 years) and who did 
not acquire phrase speech before age 4. Logistic and Cox proportionate hazards 
regression analyses examined predictors of phrase and fluent speech attainment 
and age at acquisition, respectively.
RESULTS: A total of 372 children (70%) attained phrase speech and 253 children 
(47%) attained fluent speech at or after age 4. No demographic or child 
psychiatric characteristics were associated with phrase speech attainment after 
age 4, whereas slightly older age and increased internalizing symptoms were 
associated with fluent speech. In the multivariate analyses, higher nonverbal IQ 
and less social impairment were both independently associated with the 
acquisition of phrase and fluent speech, as well as earlier age at acquisition. 
Stereotyped behavior/repetitive interests and sensory interests were not 
associated with delayed speech acquisition.
CONCLUSIONS: This study highlights that many severely language-delayed children 
in the present sample attained phrase or fluent speech at or after age 4 years. 
These data also implicate the importance of evaluating and considering nonverbal 
skills, both cognitive and social, when developing interventions and setting 
goals for language development.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.2012-2221
PMCID: PMC9923624
PMID: 23460690 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE: The authors have indicated 
they have no financial relationships relevant to this article to disclose.


448. PLoS One. 2013;8(2):e57197. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0057197. Epub 2013 Feb 27.

A diagnostic model incorporating P50 sensory gating and neuropsychological tests 
for schizophrenia.

Shan JC(1), Liu CM, Chiu MJ, Liu CC, Chien YL, Hwang TJ, Lin YT, Hsieh MH, Jaw 
FS, Hwu HG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Cathay General Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan.

OBJECTIVES: Endophenotypes in schizophrenia research is a contemporary approach 
to studying this heterogeneous mental illness, and several candidate 
neurophysiological markers (e.g. P50 sensory gating) and neuropsychological 
tests (e.g. Continuous Performance Test (CPT) and Wisconsin Card Sorting Test 
(WCST)) have been proposed. However, the clinical utility of a single marker 
appears to be limited. In the present study, we aimed to construct a diagnostic 
model incorporating P50 sensory gating with other neuropsychological tests in 
order to improve the clinical utility.
METHODS: We recruited clinically stable outpatients meeting DSM-IV criteria of 
schizophrenia and age- and gender-matched healthy controls. Participants 
underwent P50 sensory gating experimental sessions and batteries of 
neuropsychological tests, including CPT, WCST and Wechsler Adult Intelligence 
Scale Third Edition (WAIS-III).
RESULTS: A total of 106 schizophrenia patients and 74 healthy controls were 
enrolled. Compared with healthy controls, the patient group had significantly a 
larger S2 amplitude, and thus poorer P50 gating ratio (gating ratio = S2/S1). In 
addition, schizophrenia patients had a poorer performance on neuropsychological 
tests. We then developed a diagnostic model by using multivariable logistic 
regression analysis to differentiate patients from healthy controls. The final 
model included the following covariates: abnormal P50 gating (defined as P50 
gating ratio >0.4), three subscales derived from the WAIS-III (Arithmetic, Block 
Design, and Performance IQ), sensitivity index from CPT and smoking status. This 
model had an adequate accuracy (concordant percentage = 90.4%; 
c-statistic = 0.904; Hosmer-Lemeshow Goodness-of-Fit Test, p = 0.64>0.05).
CONCLUSION: To the best of our knowledge, this is the largest study to date 
using P50 sensory gating in subjects of Chinese ethnicity and the first to use 
P50 sensory gating along with other neuropsychological tests to develop a 
diagnostic model for schizophrenia. Further research to validate the predictive 
accuracy of this model by applying it on other samples is warranted.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0057197
PMCID: PMC3584115
PMID: 23460831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


449. Neuroreport. 2013 Apr 17;24(6):308-12. doi: 10.1097/WNR.0b013e32835fa73f.

A neural computational model for animal's time-to-collision estimation.

Wang L(1), Yao D.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory for NeuroInformation of the Ministry of Education, School of 
Life Science and Technology, University of Electronic Science and Technology of 
China, Chengdu, People's Republic of China. w_ling@uestc.edu.cn

The time-to-collision (TTC) is the time elapsed before a looming object hits the 
subject. An accurate estimation of TTC plays a critical role in the survival of 
animals in nature and acts as an important factor in artificial intelligence 
systems that depend on judging and avoiding potential dangers. The theoretic 
formula for TTC is 1/τ≈θ'/sin θ, where θ and θ' are the visual angle and its 
variation, respectively, and the widely used approximation computational model 
is θ'/θ. However, both of these measures are too complex to be implemented by a 
biological neuronal model. We propose a new simple computational model: 
1/τ≈Mθ-P/(θ+Q)+N, where M, P, Q, and N are constants that depend on a predefined 
visual angle. This model, weighted summation of visual angle model (WSVAM), can 
achieve perfect implementation through a widely accepted biological neuronal 
model. WSVAM has additional merits, including a natural minimum consumption and 
simplicity. Thus, it yields a precise and neuronal-implemented estimation for 
TTC, which provides a simple and convenient implementation for artificial 
vision, and represents a potential visual brain mechanism.

DOI: 10.1097/WNR.0b013e32835fa73f
PMID: 23462266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


450. J Pediatr. 2013 Aug;163(2):489-92. doi: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2013.01.027. Epub 2013 
Feb 22.

Effect of age at treatment on cognitive performance in patients with cystinosis.

Viltz L(1), Trauner DA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosciences, University of California San Diego School of 
Medicine, La Jolla, CA 92093-0935, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether early treatment with cysteamine affects 
cognitive functioning in patients with nephropathic cystinosis.
STUDY DESIGN: Forty-six subjects aged 3-18 years with cystinosis underwent 
cognitive testing to determine intelligence, visual-spatial abilities, and 
visual-motor skills. An age-matched control group (n = 85; age 2-22 years) 
underwent the same tests. Age at diagnosis and age at initiation of treatment 
with cysteamine were recorded at the time of testing.
RESULTS: Patients with cystinosis treated at or after age 2 years 
(late-treatment group) scored significantly lower on verbal, performance, and 
full-scale IQ measures, as well as on a test of visual-spatial skills, compared 
with patients treated before age 2 years (early-treatment group) and controls. 
Both groups of subjects with cystinosis demonstrated impaired visual-motor 
skills compared with controls, with no difference between the early-treatment 
and late-treatment groups.
CONCLUSION: Early treatment with cysteamine appears to improve intellectual 
function in patients with nephropathic cystinosis. However, the lack of 
improvement in visual-motor function with early cysteamine treatment suggests 
possibly different mechanisms underlying visual-motor performance compared with 
other areas of cognition in this disorder.

Copyright © 2013 Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2013.01.027
PMCID: PMC3676483
PMID: 23462307 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


451. Epilepsy Behav. 2013 Apr;27(1):238-42. doi: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2013.01.020. Epub 
2013 Mar 1.

Questionnaire-based assessment of behavioral problems in Japanese children with 
epilepsy.

Kobayashi K(1), Endoh F, Ogino T, Oka M, Morooka T, Yoshinaga H, Ohtsuka Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Child Neurology, Okayama University Graduate School of 
Medicine, Dentistry and Pharmaceutical Sciences and Okayama University Hospital, 
5-1 Shikatacho 2-chome, Kita-ku, Okayama, Japan. k_koba@md.okayama-u.ac.jp

Behavioral problems in Japanese children with epilepsy were investigated by 
means of a questionnaire for parents consisting of three checklists: the Child 
Behavior Checklist (CBCL)/4-18 Japanese Edition, the High-Functioning Autism 
Spectrum Screening Questionnaire (ASSQ), and the Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity 
Disorder (ADHD) Rating Scale-IV (ADHD-RS) for parents. The participants were the 
parents of 108 children aged 6-18 years with apparently normal intelligence. The 
CBCL indicated abnormal behavior in 10.5 to 35.6% of the children, and T scores 
on both the internalizing and externalizing scales had a significant positive 
relation with scores on the ASSQ and ADHD-RS. It was revealed through 
multivariate logistic regression analysis that the persistence of seizures was 
significantly related with abnormality on the externalizing scale of the CBCL 
(p=0.010, odds ratio: 3.48, 95% confidence interval: 1.34-9.02). Future studies 
are needed to determine whether seizure freedom improves behavior in children 
with epilepsy.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2013.01.020
PMID: 23466253 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


452. Am J Epidemiol. 2013 Apr 1;177(7):649-55. doi: 10.1093/aje/kws237. Epub 2013 Mar 
6.

Is later better or worse? Association of advanced parental age with offspring 
cognitive ability among half a million young Swedish men.

Myrskylä M(1), Silventoinen K, Tynelius P, Rasmussen F.

Author information:
(1)Max Planck Research Group Lifecourse Dynamics and Demographic Change, Max 
Planck Institute for Demographic Research, Konrad-Zuse-Str 1, 18057 Rostock, 
Germany. myrskyla@demogr.mpg.de

Parental ages are increasing in the developed world, and postponed parenthood 
may have a negative association with the cognitive ability of offspring. There 
is, however, inconclusive evidence regarding the impact of both maternal and 
paternal ages. We have been able to reduce or eliminate unobserved confounding 
by using methods that account for fixed parental characteristics shared by 
brothers. Associations between parental age and intelligence quotient (IQ) among 
565,433 Swedish males (birth cohorts 1951 to 1976) were analyzed, with IQ 
measured at conscription examinations (given between ages 17 and 20 years). When 
we accounted for the IQ time trend by adjusting for birth year, advanced 
paternal age showed no association with offspring IQ; however, maternal ages 
above 30 years were inversely associated with offspring IQ. For example, 
maternal ages 40-44 years were associated with an offspring IQ that was 0.07 
standard deviations lower than that for maternal ages 25-29 years (P < 0.001). 
However, the IQ trend more than offset the impact of age, as without birth year 
adjustment, advanced maternal age was positively associated with IQ. Although 
the results confirmed that maternal age was negatively associated with offspring 
IQ, the association was small enough that delaying parenthood resulted in higher 
offspring IQ scores because of the positive IQ test score trend.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/kws237
PMID: 23467498 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


453. Genet Med. 2013 Jul;15(7):548-53. doi: 10.1038/gim.2013.1. Epub 2013 Mar 7.

Cognitive characteristics of PTEN hamartoma tumor syndromes.

Busch RM(1), Chapin JS, Mester J, Ferguson L, Haut JS, Frazier TW, Eng C.

Author information:
(1)Neurological Institute, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, Ohio, USA. 
buschr@ccf.org

PURPOSE: We sought to characterize cognition in individuals with germline PTEN 
mutations (n = 23) as well as in PTEN mutation-negative individuals with classic 
Cowden syndrome or Bannayan-Riley-Ruvalcaba syndrome (n = 2).
METHODS: Twenty-five individuals completed a comprehensive neuropsychological 
evaluation. One sample t-tests and effect sizes were used to examine differences 
in participant test scores compared with normal controls. Composite scores were 
created for each patient within each of the cognitive domains assessed and 
classified as above average, average, or below average according to normative 
standards. χ(2) analyses compared these classifications to expected proportions 
in normal control samples.
RESULTS: The mean intelligence quotient was in the average range, and the range 
of intellectual functioning was very wide (from extremely low to very superior). 
However, in a large subset of patients, scores were lower than expected on 
measures of motor functioning, executive functioning, and memory recall, 
suggesting disruption of frontal circuits in these participants.
CONCLUSION: This is the first study to characterize cognition in individuals 
with PTEN mutations and associated syndromes using a comprehensive 
neuropsychological battery. Contrary to previous reports suggesting an 
association with intellectual disability, the mean intelligence quotient was 
average, and there was a broad range of intellectual abilities. Specific 
evidence of disruption of frontal circuits may have implications for treatment 
compliance and cancer surveillance, and further investigation is warranted.

DOI: 10.1038/gim.2013.1
PMCID: PMC3956109
PMID: 23470840 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST Drs. Frazier and Eng are 
PI and co-PI, respectively, of a sponsored research agreement from IntegraGen to 
study SNP markers in autism spectrum disorders. Dr. Busch, Dr. Chapin, Ms. 
Mester, Ms. Ferguson, and Dr. Haut declare no potential conflict of interest.


454. Gene Regul Syst Bio. 2013;7:23-39. doi: 10.4137/GRSB.S10885. Epub 2013 Feb 20.

Global consensus theorem and self-organized criticality: unifying principles for 
understanding self-organization, swarm intelligence and mechanisms of 
carcinogenesis.

Rosenfeld S(1).

Author information:
(1)NIH, National Cancer Institute, Rockville, Maryland, USA.

Complex biological systems manifest a large variety of emergent phenomena among 
which prominent roles belong to self-organization and swarm intelligence. 
Generally, each level in a biological hierarchy possesses its own systemic 
properties and requires its own way of observation, conceptualization, and 
modeling. In this work, an attempt is made to outline general guiding principles 
in exploration of a wide range of seemingly dissimilar phenomena observed in 
large communities of individuals devoid of any personal intelligence and 
interacting with each other through simple stimulus-response rules. 
Mathematically, these guiding principles are well captured by the Global 
Consensus Theorem (GCT) equally applicable to neural networks and to 
Lotka-Volterra population dynamics. Universality of the mechanistic principles 
outlined by GCT allows for a unified approach to such diverse systems as 
biological networks, communities of social insects, robotic communities, 
microbial communities, communities of somatic cells, social networks and many 
other systems. Another cluster of universal laws governing the self-organization 
in large communities of locally interacting individuals is built around the 
principle of self-organized criticality (SOC). The GCT and SOC, separately or in 
combination, provide a conceptual basis for understanding the phenomena of 
self-organization occurring in large communities without involvement of a 
supervisory authority, without system-wide informational infrastructure, and 
without mapping of general plan of action onto cognitive/behavioral faculties of 
its individual members. Cancer onset and proliferation serves as an important 
example of application of these conceptual approaches. In this paper, the point 
of view is put forward that apparently irreconcilable contradictions between two 
opposing theories of carcinogenesis, that is, the Somatic Mutation Theory and 
the Tissue Organization Field Theory, may be resolved using the systemic 
approaches provided by GST and SOC.

DOI: 10.4137/GRSB.S10885
PMCID: PMC3583443
PMID: 23471309


455. PLoS One. 2013;8(3):e57252. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0057252. Epub 2013 Mar 5.

Evaluation of epidemic intelligence systems integrated in the early alerting and 
reporting project for the detection of A/H5N1 influenza events.

Barboza P(1), Vaillant L, Mawudeku A, Nelson NP, Hartley DM, Madoff LC, Linge 
JP, Collier N, Brownstein JS, Yangarber R, Astagneau P; Early Alerting Reporting 
Project Of The Global Health Security Initiative.

Collaborators: Arthur RR, Barboza P, Barker M, Brownstein J, Chow C, Collier N, 
Cortes R, Declich S, Dente MG, Diaz PS, Doherty B, Herzog C, Hiley M, Lightfoot 
N, Linge J, Madoff LC, Mantero J, Mawudeku A, Nelson NP, Riccardo F, Rortais A, 
Shigematsu M, Schnitzler J, Thinus G, Vaillant L, Yangarber R.

Author information:
(1)International Department, French Institute for Public Health Surveillance 
(Institut de Veille Sanitaire), Saint Maurice, France. p.barboza@invs.sante.fr

The objective of Web-based expert epidemic intelligence systems is to detect 
health threats. The Global Health Security Initiative (GHSI) Early Alerting and 
Reporting (EAR) project was launched to assess the feasibility and opportunity 
for pooling epidemic intelligence data from seven expert systems. EAR 
participants completed a qualitative survey to document epidemic intelligence 
strategies and to assess perceptions regarding the systems performance. 
Timeliness and sensitivity were rated highly illustrating the value of the 
systems for epidemic intelligence. Weaknesses identified included 
representativeness, completeness and flexibility. These findings were 
corroborated by the quantitative analysis performed on signals potentially 
related to influenza A/H5N1 events occurring in March 2010. For the six systems 
for which this information was available, the detection rate ranged from 31% to 
38%, and increased to 72% when considering the virtual combined system. The 
effective positive predictive values ranged from 3% to 24% and F1-scores ranged 
from 6% to 27%. System sensitivity ranged from 38% to 72%. An average difference 
of 23% was observed between the sensitivities calculated for human cases and 
epizootics, underlining the difficulties in developing an efficient algorithm 
for a single pathology. However, the sensitivity increased to 93% when the 
virtual combined system was considered, clearly illustrating complementarities 
between individual systems. The average delay between the detection of A/H5N1 
events by the systems and their official reporting by WHO or OIE was 10.2 days 
(95% CI: 6.7-13.8). This work illustrates the diversity in implemented epidemic 
intelligence activities, differences in system's designs, and the potential 
added values and opportunities for synergy between systems, between users and 
between systems and users.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0057252
PMCID: PMC3589479
PMID: 23472077 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


456. J Air Waste Manag Assoc. 2013 Feb;63(2):205-18. doi: 
10.1080/10962247.2012.741054.

Development of hybrid genetic-algorithm-based neural networks using regression 
trees for modeling air quality inside a public transportation bus.

Kadiyala A(1), Kaur D, Kumar A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Civil Engineering, University of Toledo, 2801 W. Bancroft 
Street, Toledo, OH 43606, USA.

The present study developed a novel approach to modeling indoor air quality 
(IAQ) of a public transportation bus by the development of hybrid 
genetic-algorithm-based neural networks (also known as evolutionary neural 
networks) with input variables optimized from using the regression trees, 
referred as the GART approach. This study validated the applicability of the 
GART modeling approach in solving complex nonlinear systems by accurately 
predicting the monitored contaminants of carbon dioxide (CO2), carbon monoxide 
(CO), nitric oxide (NO), sulfur dioxide (SO2), 0.3-0.4 microm sized particle 
numbers, 0.4-0.5 microm sized particle numbers, particulate matter (PM) 
concentrations less than 1.0 microm (PM10), and PM concentrations less than 2.5 
microm (PM2.5) inside a public transportation bus operating on 20% grade 
biodiesel in Toledo, OH. First, the important variables affecting each monitored 
in-bus contaminant were determined using regression trees. Second, the analysis 
of variance was used as a complimentary sensitivity analysis to the regression 
tree results to determine a subset of statistically significant variables 
affecting each monitored in-bus contaminant. Finally, the identified subsets of 
statistically significant variables were used as inputs to develop three 
artificial neural network (ANN) models. The models developed were regression 
tree-based back-propagation network (BPN-RT), regression tree-based radial basis 
function network (RBFN-RT), and GART models. Performance measures were used to 
validate the predictive capacity of the developed IAQ models. The results from 
this approach were compared with the results obtained from using a theoretical 
approach and a generalized practicable approach to modeling IAQ that included 
the consideration of additional independent variables when developing the 
aforementioned ANN models. The hybrid GART models were able to capture majority 
of the variance in the monitored in-bus contaminants. The 
genetic-algorithm-based neural network IAQ models outperformed the traditional 
ANN methods of the back-propagation and the radial basis function networks.
IMPLICATIONS: The novelty of this research is the development of a novel 
approach to modeling vehicular indoor air quality by integration of the advanced 
methods of genetic algorithms, regression trees, and the analysis of variance 
for the monitored in-vehicle gaseous and particulate matter contaminants, and 
comparing the results obtained from using the developed approach with 
conventional artificial intelligence techniques of back propagation networks and 
radial basis function networks. This study validated the newly developed 
approach using holdout and threefold cross-validation methods. These results are 
of great interest to scientists, researchers, and the public in understanding 
the various aspects of modeling an indoor microenvironment. This methodology can 
easily be extended to other fields of study also.

DOI: 10.1080/10962247.2012.741054
PMID: 23472304 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


457. J Psychol. 2013 Jan-Feb;147(1):1-16. doi: 10.1080/00223980.2012.667016.

The nature of well-being: the roles of hedonic and eudaimonic processes and 
trait emotional intelligence.

Bhullar N(1), Schutte NS, Malouff JM.

Author information:
(1)University of New England, Australia. navjot.bhullar@une.edu.au

The present study reconceptualized the role of hedonic (pleasure) and eudaimonic 
(engagement) functions as well-being processes and distinguished them from 
well-being outcomes. Well-being outcomes encompass life satisfaction, positive 
affect, psychological well-being, social well-being, subjective physical health, 
and absence of depression, anxiety, and stress. It was hypothesized that trait 
emotional intelligence (EI) would mediate the relationship between well-being 
processes and well-being outcomes. Participants (N = 370, mean age = 27.35 
years, SD = 10.01) completed measures of hedonic and eudaimonic well-being 
processes, trait EI, and well-being outcome indices. Path analysis using 
structural equation modeling showed that trait EI fully mediated the 
relationship between hedonic and eudaimonic processes and well-being outcomes. 
Results demonstrated that engagement in meaningful activities as captured by 
hedonic and eudaimonic well-being processes may promote well-being outcomes.

DOI: 10.1080/00223980.2012.667016
PMID: 23472441 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


458. Rev Neurol (Paris). 2013 Jun-Jul;169(6-7):459-69. doi: 
10.1016/j.neurol.2013.01.623. Epub 2013 Mar 6.

Recognition memory and the medial temporal lobe: from monkey research to human 
pathology.

Meunier M(1), Barbeau E.

Author information:
(1)Inserm U1028, Lyon Neuroscience Research Center, ImpAct Team, 16, avenue du 
Doyen-Lépine, 69500 Bron, France. martine.meunier@inserm.fr

This review provides a historical overview of decades of research on recognition 
memory, the process that allows both humans and animals to tell familiar from 
novel items. The emphasis is put on how monkey research improved our 
understanding of the medial temporal lobe (MTL) role and how tasks designed for 
monkeys influenced research in humans. The story starts in the early 1950s. Back 
then, memory was not a fashionable scientific topic. It was viewed as a function 
of the whole brain and not of specialized brain areas. All that changed in 
1957-1958 when Brenda Milner, a neuropsychologist from Montreal, described 
patient H.M. He forgot all events as he lived them despite a fully preserved 
intelligence. He had received a MTL resection to relieve epilepsy. H.M. 
(1926-2008) would become the most influential patient in brain science. Which 
structures among those included in H.M.'s large lesion were important for 
recognition memory could not be evaluated in humans. It was gradually understood 
only after the successful development of a monkey model of human amnesia by 
Mishkin in 1978. Selective lesions and two behavioral tasks, delayed 
nonmatching-to-sample and visual paired comparison, were used to distinguish the 
contribution of the hippocampus from that of adjacent cortical areas. Driven by 
findings in non-human primates, human research on recognition memory is now 
trying to solve the question of whether the different structures composing MTL 
contributes to familiarity and recollection, the two possible forms taken by 
recognition. We described in particular two French patients, FRG and JMG, whose 
deficits support the currently dominant model attributing to the perirhinal 
cortex a critical role in recognition memory. Research on recognition memory has 
implications for the clinician as it may help understanding the cognitive 
deficits observed in different diseases. An illustration of such approach, 
linking basic and applied research, is provided for Alzheimer's disease.

Copyright © 2013. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neurol.2013.01.623
PMID: 23473622 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


459. Res Dev Disabil. 2013 May;34(5):1376-87. doi: 10.1016/j.ridd.2013.01.005. Epub 
2013 Mar 5.

Is it normal to be a principal mindreader? Revising theories of social cognition 
on the basis of schizophrenia and high functioning autism-spectrum disorders.

Froese T(1), Stanghellini G, Bertelli MO.

Author information:
(1)IIMAS, C3, Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México, D.F., Mexico. 
t.froese@gmail.com

Schizophrenia and high functioning autism-spectrum disorders (ASD) are 
neurodevelopmental conditions that mainly impair social competence, while 
general intelligence (IQ) is spared. Both disorders have a strong ancillary role 
in theoretical research on social cognition. Recently the debate has started to 
be inflected by embodied and phenomenological approaches, which claim that the 
standard portrayal of all social understanding as so-called 'mindreading', i.e. 
the attribution of mental states to others in the service of explaining and 
predicting their behavior, is misguided. Instead it is emphasized that we 
normally perceive others directly as conscious and goal-directed persons, 
without requiring any theorizing and/or simulation. This paper evaluates some of 
the implications of abnormal experiences reported by people with schizophrenia 
and ASD for the current debate in cognitive science. For these people the 
practice of explicit mindreading seems to be a compensatory strategy that 
ultimately fails to compensate for - and may even exacerbate - their impairment 
of intuitive and interactive social understanding. Phenomenological 
psychopathology thereby supports the emerging view that 'mindreading' is not the 
principal form of normal social understanding.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ridd.2013.01.005
PMID: 23474990 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


460. Psychiatr Prax. 2013 Apr;40(3):120-9. doi: 10.1055/s-0032-1332988. Epub 2013 Mar 
8.

[The assessment of cognitive abilities in psychiatric patients: are widely used 
psychological tests still up-to-date?].

[Article in German]

Antretter E(1), Dunkel D, Haring C.

Author information:
(1)Landeskrankenhaus Hall, Österreich. elfi.antretter@tilak.at

Comment in
    Psychiatr Prax. 2014 Apr;41(3):164.

OBJECTIVE: Evaluation of widely used tests for the assessment of cognitive 
abilities of adult psychiatric patients in German speaking countries by current 
psychometric standards.
METHODS: The German Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scales (HAWIE, HAWIE-R, WIE), 
the Multiple Choice Vocabulary Test (MWT-B), the German adaption and revision of 
the Benton Visual Retention Test (BT; 10-Item version, 20-Item version), and the 
d2 Test of attention (Test d2, d2-C, d2-R) were evaluated. A systematic search 
for relevant psychometric test publications in German language journals and 
textbooks was carried out. Three evaluation criteri a were considered: 1) 
theoretical foundation, 2) availability of actual test norms, 3) usual 
psychometric test validity and reliability criteria.
RESULTS: The theoretical foundation of all of the psychological tests under 
review was found to be very weak. The norm values of some of the tests are 
outdated. Most of the psychological tests do not fulfill high quality standards 
of psychometric testing.
CONCLUSIONS: The examined psychological tests for the assessment of cognitive 
abilities of psychiatric patients only partly conform to current standards of 
psychological testing. It is likely that the test results are of limited value. 
Misleading or even incorrect clinical evaluations might be a frequent outcome.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0032-1332988
PMID: 23475778 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


461. J Atten Disord. 2014 May;18(4):346-56. doi: 10.1177/1087054713476138. Epub 2013 
Mar 8.

Working memory screening, school context, and socioeconomic status: an analysis 
of the effectiveness of the working memory rating scale in Brazil.

Engel de Abreu PM(1), Nikaedo C, Abreu N, Tourinho CJ, Miranda MC, Bueno OF, 
Martin R.

Author information:
(1)1University of Luxembourg, Luxembourg.

OBJECTIVE: The study explores the psychometric properties of the 
Brazilian-Portuguese version of the Working Memory Rating Scale (WMRS-Br) in a 
population of 355 young children from diverse socioeconomic status and schooling 
backgrounds.
METHOD: Public and private school teachers completed the WMRS-Br and children 
were assessed on a range of objective cognitive measures of fluid intelligence, 
working memory, and attention.
RESULTS: Reliability and validity of the WMRS-Br were excellent across the 
public and private school sample. The WMRS-Br manifested substantial links with 
objective measures of working memory and medium links with selective attention, 
switching, and interference suppression. Confirmatory factor analyses suggest 
that a shorter version of the scale provides an adequate fit to the data.
CONCLUSION: The WMRS-Br represents a valid screening tool in a Latin American 
context that has the potential to improve the early detection of working memory 
deficits in children growing up in poverty.

DOI: 10.1177/1087054713476138
PMID: 23475826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


462. Proc SPIE Int Soc Opt Eng. 2013 Mar 12;8671:867117. doi: 10.1117/12.2007669.

A Fully Actuated Robotic Assistant for MRI-Guided Prostate Biopsy and 
Brachytherapy.

Li G(1), Su H(1), Shang W(1), Tokuda J(2), Hata N(2), Tempany CM(2), Fischer 
GS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Mechanical Engineering, Worcester Polytechnic Institute, 
Worcester, MA, USA.
(2)Department of Radiology, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.

Intra-operative medical imaging enables incorporation of human experience and 
intelligence in a controlled, closed-loop fashion. Magnetic resonance imaging 
(MRI) is an ideal modality for surgical guidance of diagnostic and therapeutic 
procedures, with its ability to perform high resolution, real-time, high soft 
tissue contrast imaging without ionizing radiation. However, for most current 
image-guided approaches only static pre-operative images are accessible for 
guidance, which are unable to provide updated information during a surgical 
procedure. The high magnetic field, electrical interference, and limited access 
of closed-bore MRI render great challenges to developing robotic systems that 
can perform inside a diagnostic high-field MRI while obtaining interactively 
updated MR images. To overcome these limitations, we are developing a 
piezoelectrically actuated robotic assistant for actuated percutaneous prostate 
interventions under real-time MRI guidance. Utilizing a modular design, the 
system enables coherent and straight forward workflow for various percutaneous 
interventions, including prostate biopsy sampling and brachytherapy seed 
placement, using various needle driver configurations. The unified workflow 
compromises: 1) system hardware and software initialization, 2) fiducial frame 
registration, 3) target selection and motion planning, 4) moving to the target 
and performing the intervention (e.g. taking a biopsy sample) under live 
imaging, and 5) visualization and verification. Phantom experiments of prostate 
biopsy and brachytherapy were executed under MRI-guidance to evaluate the 
feasibility of the workflow. The robot successfully performed fully actuated 
biopsy sampling and delivery of simulated brachytherapy seeds under live MR 
imaging, as well as precise delivery of a prostate brachytherapy seed 
distribution with an RMS accuracy of 0.98mm.

DOI: 10.1117/12.2007669
PMCID: PMC4112766
PMID: 25076821


463. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2013 Apr 9;110(15):5802-5. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.1218772110. Epub 2013 Mar 11.

Private traits and attributes are predictable from digital records of human 
behavior.

Kosinski M(1), Stillwell D, Graepel T.

Author information:
(1)Free School Lane, The Psychometrics Centre, University of Cambridge, 
Cambridge CB2 3RQ United Kingdom. mk583@cam.ac.uk

We show that easily accessible digital records of behavior, Facebook Likes, can 
be used to automatically and accurately predict a range of highly sensitive 
personal attributes including: sexual orientation, ethnicity, religious and 
political views, personality traits, intelligence, happiness, use of addictive 
substances, parental separation, age, and gender. The analysis presented is 
based on a dataset of over 58,000 volunteers who provided their Facebook Likes, 
detailed demographic profiles, and the results of several psychometric tests. 
The proposed model uses dimensionality reduction for preprocessing the Likes 
data, which are then entered into logistic/linear regression to predict 
individual psychodemographic profiles from Likes. The model correctly 
discriminates between homosexual and heterosexual men in 88% of cases, African 
Americans and Caucasian Americans in 95% of cases, and between Democrat and 
Republican in 85% of cases. For the personality trait "Openness," prediction 
accuracy is close to the test-retest accuracy of a standard personality test. We 
give examples of associations between attributes and Likes and discuss 
implications for online personalization and privacy.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1218772110
PMCID: PMC3625324
PMID: 23479631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest statement: D.S. received 
revenue as owner of the myPersonality Facebook application.


464. J Child Adolesc Psychopharmacol. 2013 Mar;23(2):123-7. doi: 
10.1089/cap.2012.0048. Epub 2013 Mar 12.

Long-term administration of intranasal oxytocin is a safe and promising therapy 
for early adolescent boys with autism spectrum disorders.

Tachibana M(1), Kagitani-Shimono K, Mohri I, Yamamoto T, Sanefuji W, Nakamura A, 
Oishi M, Kimura T, Onaka T, Ozono K, Taniike M.

Author information:
(1)Molecular Research Center for Children's Mental Development, Osaka 
University, Suita, Japan.

OBJECTIVE: Oxytocin (OT) has been a candidate for the treatment of autism 
spectrum disorders (ASD), and the impact of intranasally delivered OT on ASD has 
been investigated. However, most previous studies were conducted by single-dose 
administration to adults; and, therefore, the long-term effect of nasal OT on 
ASD patients and its effect on children remain to be clarified.
METHODS: We conducted a singled-armed, open-label study in which OT was 
administered intranasally over the long term to eight male youth with ASD (10-14 
years of age; intelligence quotient [IQ] 20-101). The OT administration was 
performed in a stepwise increased dosage manner every 2 months (8, 16, 
24 IU/dose). A placebo period (1-2 weeks) was inserted before each step. The 
outcome measures were autism diagnostic observation schedule--generic (ADOS-G), 
child behavior checklist (CBCL), and the aberrant behavior checklist (ABC). In 
addition, side effects were monitored by measuring blood pressure and examining 
urine and blood samples.
RESULTS: Six of the eight participants showed improved scores on the 
communication and social interaction domains of the ADOS-G. However, regarding 
the T-scores of the CBCL and the scores of the ABC, we could not find any 
statistically significant improvement, although several subcategories showed a 
mild tendency for improvement. Caregivers of five of the eight participants 
reported certain positive effects of the OT therapy, especially on the quality 
of reciprocal communication. All participants showed excellent compliance and no 
side effects.
CONCLUSIONS: Although our results on the efficacy of long-term nasal OT therapy 
still remain controversial, to the best of our knowledge, this is the first 
report documenting the safety of long-term nasal OT therapy for children with 
ASD. Even though our data are too preliminary to draw any definite conclusions 
about efficacy, they do suggest this therapy to be safe, promising, and worthy 
of a large-scale, double-blind placebo-controlled study.

DOI: 10.1089/cap.2012.0048
PMID: 23480321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


465. J Intellect Disabil Res. 2014 Nov;58(11):1072-82. doi: 10.1111/jir.12027. Epub 
2013 Mar 11.

The analysis of challenging relations: influences on interactive behaviour of 
staff towards clients with intellectual disabilities.

Willems AP(1), Embregts PJ, Bosman AM, Hendriks AH.

Author information:
(1)MFCG, Multi-Disciplinary Centre for Dual Disabilities, Koraal groep, Heel, 
the Netherlands; Tranzo, Scientific Center for Care and Welfare & Department of 
Medical and Clinical Psychology, Tilburg University, Tilburg, the Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Relationships between support staff and clients with intellectual 
disability (ID) are important for quality of care, especially when dealing with 
challenging behaviour. Building upon an interpersonal model, this study 
investigates the influence of client challenging behaviour, staff attitude and 
staff emotional intelligence on interactive behaviour of one of these 
relationship partners, being support staff.
METHOD: A total of 158 support staff members completed a questionnaire on staff 
interactive behaviour for 158 clients with ID and challenging behaviour, as well 
as two questionnaires on staff interpersonal attitude and emotional 
intelligence.
RESULTS: Confronted with challenging behaviour as opposed to no challenging 
behaviour, staff reported less friendly, more assertive control and less 
support-seeking interpersonal behaviour. Also, staff used more proactive 
thinking and more self-reflection in dealing with challenging behaviour. Staff 
interpersonal attitude in general, mainly a harsh-dominant-resentful attitude, 
had a significant influence on most staff interactive behaviours towards an 
individual client with challenging behaviour. The influence of staff emotional 
intelligence, specifically intrapersonal abilities, on staff interactive 
behaviour towards an individual client with challenging behaviour was somewhat 
limited.
CONCLUSIONS: This research supports the necessity for training staff in general 
interpersonal attitudes towards clients as well as training in intrapersonal 
emotional intelligence, when confronted with challenging behaviour. Future 
research should focus more on the bidirectional dynamics of staff and client 
interactions.

© 2013 The Authors. Journal of Intellectual Disability Research © 2013 John 
Wiley & Sons Ltd, MENCAP & IASSIDD.

DOI: 10.1111/jir.12027
PMID: 23480642 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


466. Menopause. 2013 Sep;20(9):922-9. doi: 10.1097/GME.0b013e3182843eff.

Does lifetime exposure to hormones predict pretreatment cognitive function in 
women before adjuvant therapy for breast cancer?

Bender CM(1), Sereika SM, Ryan CM, Brufsky AM, Puhalla S, Berga SL.

Author information:
(1)University of Pittsburgh School of Nursing, Pittsburgh, PA 15261, USA. 
cbe100@pitt.edu

Comment in
    Menopause. 2013 Sep;20(9):883-5.

OBJECTIVE: Women with breast cancer have been found to have poorer cognitive 
function before the initiation of systemic adjuvant therapy than their age- and 
education-matched counterparts. The basis for this may partly include hormone 
exposure during the course of a woman's life.
METHODS: We compared cognitive function between postmenopausal women with breast 
cancer before the initiation of systemic adjuvant therapy and healthy age- and 
education-matched postmenopausal women and examined whether factors related to 
lifetime exposure to hormones predicted cognitive function before therapy.
RESULTS: We found that, compared with healthy women, women with breast cancer 
had poorer memory (P = 0.05) and attention (P = 0.006). Controlling for the 
covariates age and estimated verbal intelligence, we found that factors related 
to greater lifetime hormone exposure (oral contraceptive use, greater years 
since menopause, and longer duration of hormone therapy) predicted cognitive 
function (executive function, verbal learning and memory, attention, psychomotor 
efficiency, and visual sustained attention) in women with and without breast 
cancer but did not explain the differences in cognitive function observed at 
pretreatment in women with breast cancer.
CONCLUSIONS: Other factors may explain the poorer pretreatment cognitive 
function in women with breast cancer, including persistent effects of surgical 
operation and anesthesia, sleep problems, and tumor-related factors. Additional 
studies are needed to explicate the basis of poorer pretherapy cognitive 
function in this population.

DOI: 10.1097/GME.0b013e3182843eff
PMCID: PMC3745534
PMID: 23481123 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Financial disclosure/conflicts of interest: 
S.L.B. reports consultancies for Noven Pharmaceuticals medical advisory board 
and Shionogi Inc. All other authors report no conflicts of interest.


467. J Pediatr. 2013 Aug;163(2):441-6. doi: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2013.01.030. Epub 2013 
Feb 26.

Cognitive outcome in adolescents and young adults after repeat courses of 
antenatal corticosteroids.

Stålnacke J(1), Diaz Heijtz R, Norberg H, Norman M, Smedler AC, Forssberg H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology Stockholm University, Stockholm, Sweden.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate whether repeat courses of antenatal corticosteroids 
have long-term effects on cognitive and psychological functioning.
STUDY DESIGN: In a prospective cohort study, 58 adolescents and young adults (36 
males) who had been exposed to 2-9 weekly courses of betamethasone in utero were 
assessed with neuropsychological tests and behavior self-reports. Unexposed 
subjects (n = 44, 25 males) matched for age, sex, and gestational age at birth 
served as a comparison group. In addition, individuals exposed in utero to a 
single course (n = 25, 14 males) were included for dose-response analysis. Group 
differences were investigated using multilevel linear modeling.
RESULTS: Mean scores obtained in 2 measures of attention and speed were 
significantly lower in subjects exposed to 2 or more antenatal corticosteroids 
courses (Symbol Search, P = .009; Digit Span Forward, P = .02), but these were 
not dose-dependent. Exposure to repeat courses of antenatal corticosteroids was 
not associated with general deficits in higher cognitive functions, 
self-reported attention, adaptability, or overall psychological function.
CONCLUSIONS: Although this study indicates that repeat exposure to antenatal 
corticosteroids may have an impact on aspects of executive functioning, it does 
not provide support for the prevailing concern that such fetal exposure will 
have a major adverse impact on cognitive functions and psychological health 
later in life.

Copyright © 2013 Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2013.01.030
PMID: 23485033 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


468. Curr Opin Pediatr. 2013 Apr;25(2):255-60. doi: 10.1097/MOP.0b013e32835e906b.

Manganese exposure: cognitive, motor and behavioral effects on children: a 
review of recent findings.

Zoni S(1), Lucchini RG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Section of Occupational Medicine, University of 
Brescia, Brescia, Italy. silvia.zoni@med.unibs.it

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Manganese (Mn) is an essential element, but can be neurotoxic 
when exceeding the homeostatic range. We reviewed the most recent human studies 
(from January 2011 to July 2012) regarding the association between Mn exposure 
and cognitive, motor and behavioral effects on children.
RECENT FINDINGS: A total of 10 articles were located; data were collected from 
five different countries. Six studies showed adverse effect of Mn on cognitive 
function. The most adopted cognitive test was the Wechsler Intelligence Scale 
for Children (WISC) or some subtests from it and results suggest an inverse 
association of higher Mn exposure with lower intellligence quotient. Three 
studies focused on motor effects of Mn; two of them found a direct association 
of higher Mn exposure with increased motor impairment. Two studies assessed Mn 
impact on behavior; one of them showed a correlation between higher Mn in water 
and both internalizing and externalizing behavioral scores. Potential 
limitations of these studies included the lack of validated biomarkers and the 
lack of consideration of mixed co-exposure with other neurotoxic agents.
SUMMARY: Despite some potential limitations of the reviewed studies, the adverse 
effects of manganese exposure on the developing brain is well demonstrated and 
preventive strategies should be promoted.

DOI: 10.1097/MOP.0b013e32835e906b
PMCID: PMC4073890
PMID: 23486422 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest There are no conflicts of 
interest.


469. Cogn Dev. 2013 Jan;28(1):41-50. doi: 10.1016/j.cogdev.2012.10.002.

Perspective-Taking Ability in Bilingual Children: Extending Advantages in 
Executive Control to Spatial Reasoning.

Greenberg A(1), Bellana B, Bialystok E.

Author information:
(1)University of Alberta.

Monolingual and bilingual 8-year-olds performed a computerized spatial 
perspective-taking task. Children were asked to decide how an observer saw a 
four-block array from one of three different positions (90°, 180°, and 270° 
counter-clockwise from the child's position) by selecting one of four responses 
-- the correct response, the egocentric error, an incorrect choice in which the 
array was correct but in the wrong orientation for the viewer, and an incorrect 
choice in which the array included an internal spatial error. All children 
performed similarly on background measures, including fluid intelligence, but 
bilingual children were more accurate than monolingual children in calculating 
the observer's view across all three positions, with no differences in the 
pattern of errors committed by the two language groups. The results are 
discussed in terms of the effect of bilingualism on modifying performance in a 
complex spatial task that has implications for academic achievement.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cogdev.2012.10.002
PMCID: PMC3593058
PMID: 23486486


470. Analyst. 2013 May 7;138(9):2546-57. doi: 10.1039/c3an00195d.

Spectroscopic imaging based approach for condom identification in condom 
contaminated fingermarks.

Bradshaw R(1), Wolstenholme R, Ferguson LS, Sammon C, Mader K, Claude E, 
Blackledge RD, Clench MR, Francese S.

Author information:
(1)Sheffield Hallam University, Biomedical Research Centre, Howard Street S1 
1WB, Sheffield, UK.

Sexual offenders are increasingly reported to use condoms while committing the 
crime, mainly to prevent the transfer of DNA evidence. Although condoms are 
often removed from the crime scene, vaginal swabs can be taken from the victim 
to prove the presence of condom lubricants and therefore evidence of corpus 
delicti. However, late reporting to the police and the tendency of the victim to 
wash immediately after the crime, may compromise the detection of condom 
lubricants. Recently we showed that Matrix-Assisted Laser Desorption/Ionisation 
MS Imaging (MALDI MSI) of condom contaminated fingermarks enables images of the 
fingermark ridge pattern to be obtained simultaneously with the detection of the 
condom lubricant for two condom brands, thus becoming a potential alternative 
way to link the assailant to the crime. Building on the value of this 
information, it would be advantageous to identify the condom brand used during 
the sexual assault. Here we show the development of a multidisciplinary 
spectroscopic approach, including MALDI MSI, MS/MS, Raman microscopy and 
ATR-FTIR spectroscopy, applied to a range of condom brands/types. The techniques 
have complementary features and provide complementary information to retrieve a 
"condom brand spectroscopic fingerprint". Unique spectroscopic profiles would 
greatly aid in the screening and identification of the condom, thus adding 
intelligence to the case under investigation.

DOI: 10.1039/c3an00195d
PMID: 23486747 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


471. J Forensic Sci. 2013 May;58(3):651-7. doi: 10.1111/1556-4029.12084. Epub 2013 
Mar 12.

Forensic paleontology: a tool for "intelligence" and investigation.

Sacchi E(1), Nicosia U.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Scienze della Terra, Sapienza Università di Roma, P.le A. 
Moro 5, 00185, Roma, Italy. eva.sacchi@uniroma1.it

Paleontology and facies analysis proved to be useful tools in activities of 
intelligence and investigation on some criminal cases, as well as in in-court 
activities, thus defining the "forensic paleontology" area of study. The 
definition was given by analyzing its possible specific applications and 
excluding some marginal activities. The reliability of forensic paleontology was 
then assessed in light of the results achieved in some actual cases and in an ad 
hoc simulation. The investigated cases concerned intelligence and ordinary law 
enforcement activities. Special attention was paid to crimes against the 
cultural heritage. Ex post re-examination of the cases substantiated the value 
of this scientific branch in investigations, while stressing the possible 
difficulties in explaining its results to lay persons. Therefore, careful 
preparation of technical and linguistic preliminary notes for judges, 
prosecutors, and lawyers as well as a special training for consultants are 
recommended before presenting results as exhibits in in-court 
cross-examinations.

© 2013 American Academy of Forensic Sciences.

DOI: 10.1111/1556-4029.12084
PMID: 23488480 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


472. J Child Psychol Psychiatry. 2013 Aug;54(8):900-10. doi: 10.1111/jcpp.12063. Epub 
2013 Mar 12.

Empathic responsiveness in amygdala and anterior cingulate cortex in youths with 
psychopathic traits.

Marsh AA(1), Finger EC, Fowler KA, Adalio CJ, Jurkowitz IT, Schechter JC, Pine 
DS, Decety J, Blair RJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Georgetown University, Washington, DC 20057, USA. 
aam72@georgetown.edu

BACKGROUND: Psychopathic traits are associated with increases in antisocial 
behaviors such as aggression and are characterized by reduced empathy for 
others' distress. This suggests that psychopathic traits may also impair 
empathic pain sensitivity. However, whether psychopathic traits affect responses 
to the pain of others versus the self has not been previously assessed.
METHOD: We used whole-brain functional magnetic resonance imaging to measure 
neural activation in 14 adolescents with oppositional defiant disorder or 
conduct disorder and psychopathic traits, as well as 21 healthy controls matched 
on age, gender, and intelligence. Activation in structures associated with 
empathic pain perception was assessed as adolescents viewed photographs of 
pain-inducing injuries. Adolescents imagined either that the body in each 
photograph was their own or that it belonged to another person. Behavioral and 
neuroimaging data were analyzed using random-effects analysis of variance.
RESULTS: Youths with psychopathic traits showed reduced activity within regions 
associated with empathic pain as the depicted pain increased. These regions 
included rostral anterior cingulate cortex, ventral striatum (putamen), and 
amygdala. Reductions in amygdala activity particularly occurred when the injury 
was perceived as occurring to another. Empathic pain responses within both 
amygdala and rostral anterior cingulate cortex were negatively correlated with 
the severity of psychopathic traits as indexed by PCL:YV scores.
CONCLUSIONS: Youths with psychopathic traits show less responsiveness in regions 
implicated in the affective response to another's pain as the perceived 
intensity of this pain increases. Moreover, this reduced responsiveness appears 
to predict symptom severity.

© 2013 The Authors. Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry © 2013 
Association for Child and Adolescent Mental Health.

DOI: 10.1111/jcpp.12063
PMCID: PMC3716835
PMID: 23488588 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest statement: No conflicts 
declared.


473. Thyroid. 2013 Nov;23(11):1470-8. doi: 10.1089/thy.2012.0573. Epub 2013 Jun 14.

Recent trends in the incidence, geographical distribution, and survival from 
thyroid cancer in Wales, 1985-2010.

Amphlett B(1), Lawson Z, Abdulrahman GO Jr, White C, Bailey R, Premawardhana LD, 
Okosieme OE.

Author information:
(1)1 Department of Endocrinology and Diabetes, Prince Charles Hospital , Merthyr 
Tydfil, United Kingdom .

BACKGROUND: Previous studies of thyroid cancer incidence in Wales have given 
varying results with suggestions of an excess of cases in geographic areas that 
were previously exposed to the radioactive fallout from the 1986 Chernobyl 
nuclear reactor incident. Our objective in this study was to provide an 
up-to-date comprehensive analysis of time trends in the incidence, geographical 
distribution, and survival from thyroid cancer in Wales.
METHODS: We identified thyroid cancer cases, registered from 1985 through 2010 
in the Welsh Cancer Intelligence and Surveillance Unit (WCISU). Age standardized 
rates were determined from the European standard population. A Poisson 
regression model was fitted to assess temporal trends and rate ratios (RRs) and 
confidence intervals (CIs) were determined and compared across consecutive time 
periods: 1985-1997 and 1998-2010. Standardized incidence ratios were calculated 
for each of the 22 local authority areas. Relative survival and Kaplan-Meier 
curves were computed to analyze all cause and thyroid cancer-specific survival.
RESULTS: A total of 1747 thyroid cancer cases were registered from 1985 to 2010. 
Age standardized incidence rates were 2.8 and 1.2 per 100,000 population per 
year for females and males respectively. Incidence rates increased with time (RR 
1.3 [CI 1.2-1.5], p < 0.001; 1998-2010 vs. 1985-1997). The incidence of 
papillary cancer increased progressively over the study period (RR 2.22 [CI 
1.91-2.57], p < 0.001; 1998-2010 vs. 1985-1997), while rates for other 
(nonpapillary) histological subtypes remained static (RR 0.95 [CI 0.84-1.08], p 
= 0.45; 1998-2010 vs. 1985-1997). We identified two geographical areas of 
increased incidence, but the spatial distribution of cases was inconsistent with 
exposure to radioactive fallout. Five-year relative survival from all-cause 
mortality improved from 74.2 [CI 66.8-80.1] in 1985-1989 to 82.6 [CI 77.1-86.9] 
in 2000-2004, but remained poor for patients over the age of 65 years (p < 
0.001, > 65 years vs. 15-64 years) and patients with anaplastic thyroid cancer 
(p < 0.001; anaplastic vs. other histological varieties).
CONCLUSIONS: The incidence of thyroid cancer has increased in Wales, 
predominantly due to an increase in papillary cancers. The current geographical 
distribution of cases does not support a radiation effect in the region. 
Survival has remained poor for patients over the age of 65 years and those with 
anaplastic carcinoma.

DOI: 10.1089/thy.2012.0573
PMID: 23488941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


474. Psychiatry Res. 2013 Oct 30;209(3):346-52. doi: 10.1016/j.psychres.2013.02.016. 
Epub 2013 Mar 13.

Is insight in schizophrenia multidimensional? Internal structure and 
associations of the Greek version of the Schedule for the Assessment of 
Insight-Expanded.

Konstantakopoulos G(1), Ploumpidis D, Oulis P, Soumani A, Nikitopoulou S, Pappa 
K, Papadimitriou GN, David AS.

Author information:
(1)Athens University Medical School, First Department of Psychiatry, Greece; 
King's College, London, Institute of Psychiatry, Section of Cognitive 
Neuropsychiatry, UK. Electronic address: gekonst@otenet.gr.

Despite the general agreement that insight is a multidimensional phenomenon, the 
studies on the factorial structure of the scales for its assessment have yielded 
rather inconsistent results. The present study aimed to assess the internal 
structure of the Schedule for the Assessment of Insight (SAI-E). Seventy-two 
chronic patients with schizophrenia were assessed with SAI-E. Hierarchical 
cluster analysis and multidimensional scaling (MDS) were used to identify 
insight components and assess their inter-relationships. The associations of the 
extracted components with demographic, clinical and cognitive characteristics 
were also examined. The SAI-E demonstrated good psychometric properties. Three 
subscales of SAI-E were identified measuring awareness of illness, relabeling of 
symptoms, and treatment compliance. Moreover, the MDS disclosed two underlying 
dimensions--degree of 'specificity' and 'spontaneity'--within the insight 
construct. Treatment compliance was more strongly correlated with symptom 
relabeling than illness awareness. Excitement symptoms, global functioning and 
general intelligence were correlated with all the components of insight. 
Depressive symptoms were more strongly correlated with illness awareness. 
Impaired relabeling ability was linked to cognitive rigidity and greater 
severity of disorganization and positive symptoms. Education and severity of 
negative symptoms specifically affect treatment compliance. Our results support 
the hypothesis that insight is a multidimensional construct.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2013.02.016
PMID: 23489595 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


475. Auris Nasus Larynx. 2013 Oct;40(5):487-90. doi: 10.1016/j.anl.2013.01.007. Epub 
2013 Mar 13.

Bilateral submandibular duct rerouting: assessment of results on drooling in 
cerebral palsy cases.

Khadivi E(1), Ashraf Zadeh F, Bakhshaee M, Fooladvand T, Movahed SR, Nabavi SS, 
Afzal Aghaee M.

Author information:
(1)ENT of MUMS, Iran. khadivie@mums.ac.ir

OBJECTIVES: Drooling is a physiological phenomenon in infants which becomes 
unusual and even pathologic after 18 months of age. Cerebral palsy (CP), the 
most common etiology for physical disability, mostly occurs in cases of 
normal-intelligence kids who are socially active and therefore their disorders 
require special attention. One of the major problems kids with CP face is 
excessive drooling and several therapeutic methods have been suggested to treat 
this problem. In this study described herein, bilateral submandibular duct 
rerouting (BSMDR) surgery was performed to investigate its effect on drooling in 
children with CP.
METHODS: From March 2007 to April 2011, 16 children aged 6-16 years old with 
cerebral palsy who suffered from excessive drooling were recruited. A thorough 
physical examination was performed and a questionnaire was completed for each 
case. Those who met the inclusion criteria and provided an informed consent were 
selected for BSMDR surgery. They were followed-up twice, 10 days and 6 months 
after the operation to evaluate the degree of drooling or other possible side 
effects of the surgery.
RESULTS: Sixteen patients entered the study and underwent surgery. On the first 
follow-up visit 87.50% presented overall improvement, of which 56.25% showed 
good to excellent improvement in contrast to 31.25% who exhibited fair 
improvement. On the second follow-up an overall improvement was observed in 
81.25%, of which 43.75% showed good to excellent improvement compared to 37.50% 
with fair improvement.
CONCLUSION: Considering that during both the first and second follow-up visit 
only two cases (12.5%) did not respond to treatment, it could be concluded that 
BSMDR surgery is an effective treatment for reducing drooling in CP children.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.anl.2013.01.007
PMID: 23489831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


476. Eur J Oral Sci. 2013 Apr;121(2):117-20. doi: 10.1111/eos.12028. Epub 2013 Mar 4.

Cognitive ability and dental fear and anxiety.

Blomqvist M(1), Ek U, Fernell E, Holmberg K, Westerlund J, Dahllöf G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dental Medicine, Division of Pediatric Dentistry, Karolinska 
Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden. my.blomqvist@ki.se

Dental fear and anxiety (DFA), as well as dental behavior management problems, 
are common in children and adolescents. Several psychological factors in the 
child, and parental DFA, have been studied and found to correlate to the child's 
DFA. The aim of this study was to investigate the relationship between cognitive 
ability and DFA in a population-based group of children with identified behavior 
and learning problems. In conjunction with a dental examination at 11 yr of age, 
70 children were assessed with regard to DFA using the Children's Fear Survey 
Schedule Dental Subscale (CFSS-DS), and their cognitive ability was assessed 
using the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children. In addition, parental DFA 
was measured using the Corah Dental Anxiety Scale. The results revealed that DFA 
was significantly correlated to verbal intelligence quotient (IQ) but not to any 
other cognitive index. A significant correlation was found between parental DFA 
and child DFA. The results indicate that the child's verbal capacity may be one 
factor of importance in explaining dental fear in children.

© 2013 Eur J Oral Sci.

DOI: 10.1111/eos.12028
PMID: 23489901 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


477. Schizophr Res. 2013 May;146(1-3):201-8. doi: 10.1016/j.schres.2013.01.027. Epub 
2013 Mar 13.

IQ change over time in schizophrenia and healthy individuals: a meta-analysis.

Hedman AM(1), van Haren NE, van Baal CG, Kahn RS, Hulshoff Pol HE.

Author information:
(1)Rudolf Magnus Institute of Neuroscience, Department of Psychiatry, University 
Medical Centre Utrecht, PO Box 85500, 3508 GA Utrecht, The Netherlands. 
A.Hedman@umcutrecht.nl

BACKGROUND: Cognitive deficits have been recognized as a key feature of 
schizophrenia, since the first description by Kraepelin. Specifically, lower 
intelligence is considered a core feature of the disorder and may represent a 
risk factor for its development. However, whether global intelligence decreases 
over time in schizophrenia is not known. The aims of this quantitative 
meta-analysis are to gather, integrate and estimate the overall mean effect size 
of IQ change over time in schizophrenia as compared to healthy individuals.
METHODS: A systematic search was conducted to identify relevant studies. 
Longitudinal studies with at least two intelligence assessments in schizophrenia 
cohorts were retrieved. Studies had to report sufficient data on IQ-change and 
include data from healthy comparisons for computation of effect sizes. For each 
study, the Cohen d was calculated as well as a combined mean effect size.
RESULTS: Fourteen studies were identified. Eight studies with a total of 280 
patients and 306 healthy controls were suitable to be included. The mean 
weighted baseline IQ was 97.20 for patients and 109.26 for controls. The mean 
weighted IQ-change per year was +0.33 for patients and +2.08 for controls. The 
combined effect size was Cohen's d = -0.48, p = 0.01.
CONCLUSIONS: A global cognitive deficit is present in patients with 
schizophrenia expressed as a lower test score increase over repeated testing as 
compared to healthy subjects possibly due to the lack of practice effects in 
patients. Thus, schizophrenia is characterized by a relative lack of gain in 
global cognitive abilities over time.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.schres.2013.01.027
PMID: 23490758 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


478. J Learn Disabil. 2014 Sep-Oct;47(5):475-84. doi: 10.1177/0022219413479673. Epub 
2013 Mar 14.

IQ of four-year-olds who go on to develop dyslexia.

van Bergen E(1), de Jong PF(2), Maassen B(3), Krikhaar E(4), Plakas A(2), van 
der Leij A(2).

Author information:
(1)University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, Netherlands University of Oxford, Oxford, 
UK elsje.vanbergen@psy.ox.ac.uk.
(2)University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, Netherlands.
(3)University of Groningen, Groningen, Netherlands.
(4)Radboud University Nijmegen, Nijmegen, Netherlands.

Do children who go on to develop dyslexia show normal verbal and nonverbal 
development before reading onset? According to the aptitude-achievement 
discrepancy model, dyslexia is defined as a discrepancy between intelligence and 
reading achievement. One of the underlying assumptions is that the general 
cognitive development of children who fail to learn to read has been normal. The 
current study tests this assumption. In addition, we investigated whether 
possible IQ deficits are uniquely related to later reading or are also related 
to arithmetic. Four-year-olds (N = 212) with and without familial risk for 
dyslexia were assessed on 10 IQ subtests. Reading and arithmetic skills were 
measured 4 years later, at the end of Grade 2. Relative to the controls, the 
at-risk group without dyslexia had subtle impairments only in the verbal domain, 
whereas the at-risk group with dyslexia lagged behind across IQ tasks. Nonverbal 
IQ was associated with both reading and arithmetic, whereas verbal IQ was 
uniquely related to later reading. The children who went on to develop dyslexia 
performed relatively poorly in both verbal and nonverbal abilities at age 4, 
which challenges the discrepancy model. Furthermore, we discuss possible causal 
and epiphenomenal models explaining the links between early IQ and later 
reading.

© Hammill Institute on Disabilities 2013.

DOI: 10.1177/0022219413479673
PMID: 23492905 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


479. J Hum Nutr Diet. 2014 Apr;27 Suppl 2:284-91. doi: 10.1111/jhn.12090. Epub 2013 
Mar 17.

The effect of phosphatidylserine administration on memory and symptoms of 
attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder: a randomised, double-blind, 
placebo-controlled clinical trial.

Hirayama S(1), Terasawa K, Rabeler R, Hirayama T, Inoue T, Tatsumi Y, Purpura M, 
Jäger R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Early Childhood Education and Care, Kurashiki City College, 
Okayama, Japan; Daigokyou, Kyoto, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is the most commonly 
diagnosed behavioural disorder of childhood, affecting 3-5% of school-age 
children. The present study investigated whether the supplementation of 
soy-derived phosphatidylserine (PS), a naturally occurring phospholipid, 
improves ADHD symptoms in children.
METHODS: Thirty six children, aged 4-14 years, who had not previously received 
any drug treatment related to ADHD, received placebo (n = 17) or 200 mg day(-1) 
PS (n = 19) for 2 months in a randomised, double-blind manner. Main outcome 
measures included: (i) ADHD symptoms based on DSM-IV-TR; (ii) short-term 
auditory memory and working memory using the Digit Span Test of the Wechsler 
Intelligence Scale for Children; and (iii) mental performance to visual stimuli 
(GO/NO GO task).
RESULTS: PS supplementation resulted in significant improvements in: (i) ADHD 
(P < 0.01), AD (P < 0.01) and HD (P < 0.01); (ii) short-term auditory memory 
(P < 0.05); and (iii) inattention (differentiation and reverse differentiation, 
P < 0.05) and inattention and impulsivity (P < 0.05). No significant differences 
were observed in other measurements and in the placebo group. PS was 
well-tolerated and showed no adverse effects.
CONCLUSIONS: PS significantly improved ADHD symptoms and short-term auditory 
memory in children. PS supplementation might be a safe and natural nutritional 
strategy for improving mental performance in young children suffering from ADHD.

© 2013 The Authors Journal of Human Nutrition and Dietetics © 2013 The British 
Dietetic Association Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jhn.12090
PMID: 23495677 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


480. Dev Med Child Neurol. 2013 Jul;55(7):624-30. doi: 10.1111/dmcn.12125. Epub 2013 
Mar 17.

The crucial role of the predictability of motor response in visuomotor deficits 
in very preterm children at school age.

De Kieviet JF(1), Stoof CJ, Geldof CJ, Smits N, Piek JP, Lafeber HN, Van Elburg 
RM, Oosterlaan J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Neuropsychology, VU University Amsterdam, Amsterdam, 
the Netherlands.

Comment in
    Dev Med Child Neurol. 2013 Jul;55(7):587-8.

AIM: We aimed to clarify the underpinnings of widespread visuomotor deficits in 
very preterm children.
METHOD: Fifty-eight very preterm children (26 males, 32 females; mean [SD] age 7 
y 6 mo [5 mo], gestational age 29.2 wks [1.6]; birthweight 1237 g [336]), 
recruited from a tertiary level neonatal intensive care unit, and 64 
age-matched, comparison children born at term (28 males, 36 females; mean age 
[SD] 7 y 8 mo [7 mo]) participated. IQ was measured using a short form of the 
Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children (3rd edition). A research diagnosis of 
developmental coordination disorder (DCD) was defined as a score below the 15th 
centile on the Movement Assessment Battery for Children. Visuomotor performance 
was assessed using a computerized task, in which children followed a predictable 
(structured condition) or an unpredictable (non-structured condition) trail on a 
touch screen using their index finger.
RESULTS: Forty-six per cent of the very preterm children had a research 
diagnosis of DCD, compared with 16% of children born at term (p<0.001, odds 
ratio 4.69 [95% CI 2.01-10.99]). No group difference in visuomotor performance 
was present for the structured condition. In the non-structured condition, 
children born very preterm with and without a research diagnosis of DCD had 
poorer visuomotor performance than those born at term.
INTERPRETATION: The predictability of the required motor response plays a 
crucial role in visuomotor deficits in very preterm children, regardless of DCD 
status.

© The Authors. Developmental Medicine & Child Neurology © 2013 Mac Keith Press.

DOI: 10.1111/dmcn.12125
PMID: 23496135 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


481. BMC Surg. 2013 Mar 11;13:7. doi: 10.1186/1471-2482-13-7.

Operating room data management: improving efficiency and safety in a surgical 
block.

Agnoletti V(1), Buccioli M, Padovani E, Corso RM, Perger P, Piraccini E, Orelli 
RL, Maitan S, Dell'amore D, Garcea D, Vicini C, Montella TM, Gambale G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Emergency, Anesthesia and Intensive Care Unit, 
Morgagni-Pierantoni Hospital, Forlì, Italy. vanni.agnoletti@me.com

BACKGROUND: European Healthcare Systems are facing a difficult period 
characterized by increasing costs and spending cuts due to economic problems. 
There is the urgent need for new tools which sustain Hospitals decision makers 
work. This project aimed to develop a data recording system of the surgical 
process of every patient within the operating theatre. The primary goal was to 
create a practical and easy data processing tool to give hospital managers, 
anesthesiologists and surgeons the information basis to increase operating 
theaters efficiency and patient safety.
METHODS: The developed data analysis tool is embedded in an Oracle Business 
Intelligence Environment, which processes data to simple and understandable 
performance tachometers and tables. The underlying data analysis is based on 
scientific literature and the projects teams experience with tracked data. The 
system login is layered and different users have access to different data 
outputs depending on their professional needs. The system is divided in the tree 
profile types Manager, Anesthesiologist and Surgeon. Every profile includes 
subcategories where operators can access more detailed data analyses. The first 
data output screen shows general information and guides the user towards more 
detailed data analysis. The data recording system enabled the registration of 
14.675 surgical operations performed from 2009 to 2011.
RESULTS: Raw utilization increased from 44% in 2009 to 52% in 2011. The number 
of high complexity surgical procedures (≥120 minutes) has increased in certain 
units while decreased in others. The number of unscheduled procedures performed 
has been reduced (from 25% in 2009 to 14% in 2011) while maintaining the same 
percentage of surgical procedures. The number of overtime events decreased in 
2010 (23%) and in 2011 (21%) compared to 2009 (28%) and the delays expressed in 
minutes are almost the same (mean 78 min). The direct link found between the 
complexity of surgical procedures, the number of unscheduled procedures and 
overtime show a positive impact of the project on OR management. Despite a 
consistency in the complexity of procedures (19% in 2009 and 21% in 2011), 
surgical groups have been successful in reducing the number of unscheduled 
procedures (from 25% in 2009 to 14% in 2011) and overtime (from 28% in 2009 to 
21% in 2011).
CONCLUSIONS: The developed project gives healthcare managers, anesthesiologists 
and surgeons useful information to increase surgical theaters efficiency and 
patient safety. In difficult economic times is possible to develop something 
that is of some value to the patient and healthcare system too.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2482-13-7
PMCID: PMC3606357
PMID: 23496977 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


482. J Neuroinflammation. 2013 Mar 14;10:38. doi: 10.1186/1742-2094-10-38.

Plasma cytokine profiling in sibling pairs discordant for autism spectrum 
disorder.

Napolioni V(1), Ober-Reynolds B, Szelinger S, Corneveaux JJ, Pawlowski T, 
Ober-Reynolds S, Kirwan J, Persico AM, Melmed RD, Craig DW, Smith CJ, Huentelman 
MJ.

Author information:
(1)Neurogenomics Division, The Translational Genomics Research Institute (TGen), 
445 N Fifth Street, Phoenix, AZ 85004, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Converging lines of evidence point to the existence of immune 
dysfunction in autism spectrum disorder (ASD), which could directly affect 
several key neurodevelopmental processes. Previous studies have shown higher 
cytokine levels in patients with autism compared with matched controls or 
subjects with other developmental disorders. In the current study, we used 
plasma-cytokine profiling for 25 discordant sibling pairs to evaluate whether 
these alterations occur within families with ASD.
METHODS: Plasma-cytokine profiling was conducted using an array-based multiplex 
sandwich ELISA for simultaneous quantitative measurement of 40 unique targets. 
We also analyzed the correlations between cytokine levels and clinically 
relevant quantitative traits (Vineland Adaptive Behavior Scale in Autism (VABS) 
composite score, Social Responsiveness Scale (SRS) total T score, head 
circumference, and full intelligence quotient (IQ)). In addition, because of the 
high phenotypic heterogeneity of ASD, we defined four subgroups of subjects 
(those who were non-verbal, those with gastrointestinal issues, those with 
regressive autism, and those with a history of allergies), which encompass 
common and/or recurrent endophenotypes in ASD, and tested the cytokine levels in 
each group.
RESULTS: None of the measured parameters showed significant differences between 
children with ASD and their related typically developing siblings. However, 
specific target levels did correlate with quantitative clinical traits, and 
these were significantly different when the ASD subgroups were analyzed. It is 
notable that these differences seem to be attributable to a predisposing 
immunogenetic background, as no other significant differences were noticed 
between discordant sibling pairs. Interleukin-1β appears to be the cytokine most 
involved in quantitative traits and clinical subgroups of ASD.
CONCLUSIONS: In the present study, we found a lack of significant differences in 
plasma-cytokine levels between children with ASD and in their related 
non-autistic siblings. Thus, our results support the evidence that the immune 
profiles of children with autism do not differ from their typically developing 
siblings. However, the significant association of cytokine levels with the 
quantitative traits and the clinical subgroups analyzed suggests that altered 
immune responses may affect core feature of ASD.

DOI: 10.1186/1742-2094-10-38
PMCID: PMC3616926
PMID: 23497090 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


483. Int J Health Geogr. 2013 Mar 12;12:11. doi: 10.1186/1476-072X-12-11.

Incorporating geographical factors with artificial neural networks to predict 
reference values of erythrocyte sedimentation rate.

Yang Q(1), Mwenda KM, Ge M.

Author information:
(1)School of Resources and Environment, Guangdong University of Business 
Studies, Guangzhou, Guangdong, China. Qingsheng.Yang@Uleth.ca

BACKGROUND: The measurement of the Erythrocyte Sedimentation Rate (ESR) value is 
a standard procedure performed during a typical blood test. In order to 
formulate a unified standard of establishing reference ESR values, this paper 
presents a novel prediction model in which local normal ESR values and 
corresponding geographical factors are used to predict reference ESR values 
using multi-layer feed-forward artificial neural networks (ANN).
METHODS AND FINDINGS: Local normal ESR values were obtained from hospital data, 
while geographical factors that include altitude, sunshine hours, relative 
humidity, temperature and precipitation were obtained from the National 
Geographical Data Information Centre in China.The results show that predicted 
values are statistically in agreement with measured values. Model results 
exhibit significant agreement between training data and test data. Consequently, 
the model is used to predict the unseen local reference ESR values.
CONCLUSIONS: Reference ESR values can be established with geographical factors 
by using artificial intelligence techniques. ANN is an effective method for 
simulating and predicting reference ESR values because of its ability to model 
nonlinear and complex relationships.

DOI: 10.1186/1476-072X-12-11
PMCID: PMC3600041
PMID: 23497145 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


484. BMC Med Educ. 2013 Mar 7;13:38. doi: 10.1186/1472-6920-13-38.

Emotional intelligence assessment in a graduate entry medical school curriculum.

Doherty EM(1), Cronin PA, Offiah G.

Author information:
(1)National Surgical Training Centre & Graduate Medical School, Royal College of 
Surgeons in Ireland, 121, St Stephens Green, Dublin 2, Ireland. edoherty@rcsi.ie

BACKGROUND: The management of emotions in the workplace is a skill related to 
the ability to demonstrate empathic behaviour towards patients; to manage 
emotional reactions in oneself and to lead others as part of a team. This 
ability has been defined as emotional intelligence (EI) and doctor's EI may be 
related to communication skills and to patient satisfaction levels. This study 
reports on the use of two assessments of EI as part of a course on Personal and 
Professional Development (PPD) in a graduate medical school curriculum.
METHODS: Fifty one graduate entry medical students completed an eight session 
course on PPD between December 2005 and January 2006. Students completed two 
measures of EI: self-report (EQ-i) and ability (MSCEIT V2.0) over a two year 
study period. The data gathered were used to explore the relationship between 
self-report and ability EI and between EI and student demographics, academic 
performance and change over time.
RESULTS: Analysis of the EI data demonstrated that self-report EI did not change 
over time and was not related to ability EI. Females scored higher than males on 
a number of self-report and ability EI scores. Self-reported self-awareness was 
found to deteriorate in males and females over time. High self-reported EI was 
found to be associated with poor performance on clinical competency assessments 
but with good performance on a number of bio-medical knowledge based 
assessments.
CONCLUSIONS: This report concludes that assessments of EI can be incorporated 
into a medical school curriculum as part of a PPD programme and that the concept 
of EI may be associated with performance in medical school.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6920-13-38
PMCID: PMC3599294
PMID: 23497237 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


485. J Biomed Semantics. 2013 Mar 13;4(1):9. doi: 10.1186/2041-1480-4-9.

Semantic querying of relational data for clinical intelligence: a semantic web 
services-based approach.

Riazanov A(1), Klein A, Shaban-Nejad A, Rose GW, Forster AJ, Buckeridge DL, 
Baker CJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Computer Science and Applied Statistics, University of New 
Brunswick, Saint John, NB, Canada. alexandre.riazanov@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Clinical Intelligence, as a research and engineering discipline, is 
dedicated to the development of tools for data analysis for the purposes of 
clinical research, surveillance, and effective health care management. 
Self-service ad hoc querying of clinical data is one desirable type of 
functionality. Since most of the data are currently stored in relational or 
similar form, ad hoc querying is problematic as it requires specialised 
technical skills and the knowledge of particular data schemas.
RESULTS: A possible solution is semantic querying where the user formulates 
queries in terms of domain ontologies that are much easier to navigate and 
comprehend than data schemas. In this article, we are exploring the possibility 
of using SADI Semantic Web services for semantic querying of clinical data. We 
have developed a prototype of a semantic querying infrastructure for the 
surveillance of, and research on, hospital-acquired infections.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that SADI can support ad-hoc, self-service, 
semantic queries of relational data in a Clinical Intelligence context. The use 
of SADI compares favourably with approaches based on declarative semantic 
mappings from data schemas to ontologies, such as query rewriting and RDFizing 
by materialisation, because it can easily cope with situations when (i) some 
computation is required to turn relational data into RDF or OWL, e.g., to 
implement temporal reasoning, or (ii) integration with external data sources is 
necessary.

DOI: 10.1186/2041-1480-4-9
PMCID: PMC3698140
PMID: 23497556


486. Neuro Oncol. 2013 Apr;15(4):497-505. doi: 10.1093/neuonc/nos320. Epub 2013 Mar 
15.

Prevalence, associations, and predictors of apathy in adult survivors of 
infantile (<5 years of age) posterior fossa brain tumors.

Carroll C(1), Watson P, Spoudeas HA, Hawkins MM, Walker DA, Clare IC, Holland 
AJ, Ring HA.

Author information:
(1)Cambridge Intellectual and Developmental Disability Research Group, 
University of Cambridge. Douglas House, 18b Trumpington Rd., Cambridge, CB2 8AH, 
UK.

BACKGROUND: Apathy is associated with pervasive and disadvantageous effects on 
daily functioning. It has been observed transiently in some children after 
surgery for posterior fossa tumors. In this study, our objective was to examine 
prevalence, associations, and predictors of apathy in adult survivors of an 
infantile posterior fossa brain tumor (PFT).
METHODS: One hundred seventeen adult survivors of a childhood PFT diagnosed 
before age 5 years and 60 of their siblings were assessed in a cross-sectional 
study a mean of 32 years (range, 18-53 years) after survivors' initial tumor 
diagnoses, using the Marin Apathy Evaluation Scale (AES), the Weschler 
Abbreviated Scale of Intelligence and the Composite International Diagnostic 
Interview for psychiatric disorders.
RESULTS: Marin Apathy Evaluation Scale, the Weschler Abbreviated Scale of 
Intelligence reached or exceeded a criterion score for clinically significant 
apathy in 35% of survivors, compared with 18% in a sibling comparison group. In 
both siblings and survivors, apathy was associated with lower verbal and 
full-scale IQ and, among survivors, with having undergone partial rather than 
total tumor resection (independent of irradiation status). Apathy was not 
related to presence of concurrent International Classification of Diseases, 
10(th) Revision, depression. Female sex was associated with late apathy after a 
PFT, with increased likelihood of women reaching the apathy criterion relative 
to men if they were survivors.
CONCLUSIONS: Clinically significant and potentially treatable apathy occurs 
relatively commonly in adult survivors of an infantile childhood PFT, 
particularly women. Clinicians, including those managing posterior fossa 
pathology in very young children, should be aware of this association, and 
future research should clarify whether specific treatment-related variables are 
implicated in increasing this risk of apathy.

DOI: 10.1093/neuonc/nos320
PMCID: PMC3607262
PMID: 23502428 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


487. Indian Pediatr. 2013 Jul;50(7):655-8. doi: 10.1007/s13312-013-0197-7. Epub 2012 
Dec 5.

Risk factors for scholastic backwardness in children.

Haneesh K(1), Krishnakumar P, Sukumaran SK, Riyaz A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Institute of Maternal and Child Health, Medical 
College, Calicut, India.

AIM: To identify the risk factors for scholastic backwardness in children.
PARTICIPANTS: Children in the 6-12 year age group attending regular schools and 
referred to the child guidance clinic for scholastic backwardness.
SETTING: Tertiary care hospital in South India.
METHODS: Participants were compared with an age-and sex- matched group of 
children with good academic performance, to ascertain risk factors for 
scholastic backwardness.
RESULTS: There were 75 boys and 35 girls in the study group. Among them 30 (27%) 
children had mental retardation, 39 (36%) had borderline intelligence and 12 
(11%) had microcephaly. Undernutrition was noted in 36 (33%) children and 31 
(28%) had stunted growth. 28 (26%) children had a history of chronic medical 
problems like epilepsy, bronchial asthma and congenital heart diseases. Visual, 
hearing and speech defects were present in 6 (6%), 5 (5%) and 12 (11%) children, 
respectively. Statistically significant differences were noted in the 
educational level and employment status of parents of children with scholastic 
backwardness and those with good academic performance.
CONCLUSIONS: Social and family factors have a significant influence on the 
academic functioning of children.

DOI: 10.1007/s13312-013-0197-7
PMID: 23502665 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


488. J Atten Disord. 2016 Apr;20(4):346-52. doi: 10.1177/1087054713478652. Epub 2013 
Mar 15.

Determining the Accuracy of Self-Report Versus Informant-Report Using the 
Conners' Adult ADHD Rating Scale.

Alexander L(1), Liljequist L(2).

Author information:
(1)George Washington University, DC, USA.
(2)Murray State University, KY, USA lliljequist@murraystate.edu.

OBJECTIVE: The present research examined the validity of self-report versus 
informant-report in relation to a performance-based indicator of adult ADHD.
METHOD: Archival data from 118 participants (52 males, 66 females) were used to 
compare Conners' Adult ADHD Rating Scale-Self-Report: Long Format (CAARS-S:L) 
and Conners' Adult ADHD Rating Scale-Observer Report: Long Format (CAARS-O:L) 
with discrepancy scores calculated between the Wechsler Adult Intelligence 
Scale-Third Edition (WAIS-III) Verbal Comprehension Index - Working Memory Index 
(VCI - WMI) and Perceptual-Organizational Index - Processing Speed Index (POI - 
PSI) scaled scores.
RESULTS: Neither the self- nor informant-report formats of the CAARS were better 
predictors of discrepancies between WAIS-III Index scores. Intercorrelations 
between the CAARS-S:L and CAARS-O:L revealed generally higher correlations 
between the same scales of different formats and among scales measuring 
externally visible symptoms. Furthermore, regression analysis indicated that 
both the CAARS-S:L and CAARS-O:L clinical scales contributed a significant 
proportion of variance in WAIS-III VCI - WMI discrepancy scores (14.7% and 
16.4%, respectively).
CONCLUSION: Results did not establish greater accuracy of self-report versus 
informant-report of ADHD symptomatology, rather demonstrate the need for 
multimodal assessment of ADHD in adults.

© The Author(s) 2013.

DOI: 10.1177/1087054713478652
PMID: 23503811 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


489. J Atten Disord. 2015 Dec;19(12):1046-53. doi: 10.1177/1087054713476548. Epub 
2013 Mar 15.

Neuropsychological Deficits Are Not Predictive of Deficient Emotional 
Self-Regulation in Adults With ADHD.

Surman CB(1), Biederman J(1), Spencer T(1), Miller CA(1), Petty CR(1), Faraone 
SV(2).

Author information:
(1)Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.
(2)State University of New York Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, NY, USA 
sfaraone@childpsychresearch.org.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate whether neuropsychological deficits account for the 
association between deficient emotional self-regulation (DESR) and ADHD.
METHOD: DESR was identified in adults with and without ADHD who reported extreme 
frequency of items from the Barkley Current Behavior Scale (>95th percentile of 
control participants). A neuropsychological battery and structured diagnostic 
interview were administered to 113 adults with ADHD and DESR, 93 adults with 
ADHD without DESR, and 119 participants without ADHD or DESR.
RESULTS: Relative to adults with ADHD without DESR, adults with ADHD and DESR 
demonstrated lower scores on Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale (WAIS) arithmetic 
but no other significant differences in neuropsychological performance. Relative 
to adults without ADHD, both ADHD groups demonstrated lower scores across 
several measures of executive function.
CONCLUSION: Our findings do not support the hypothesis that neuropsychological 
deficits are linked to DESR in adults with ADHD. This finding is consistent with 
the hypothesis that DESR could be a manifestation of ADHD, but further study of 
alternate hypotheses is necessary to support this conclusion.

© The Author(s) 2013.

DOI: 10.1177/1087054713476548
PMID: 23503813 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


490. Pediatr Cardiol. 2013 Oct;34(7):1597-604. doi: 10.1007/s00246-013-0679-3. Epub 
2013 Mar 16.

Neurodevelopmental outcomes for children with hypoplastic left heart syndrome at 
the age of 5 years.

Brosig C(1), Mussatto K, Hoffman G, Hoffmann RG, Dasgupta M, Tweddell J, 
Ghanayem N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Medical College of Wisconsin, 8701 Watertown Plank 
Road, Milwaukee, WI, 53201, USA, cbrosig@chw.org.

This study aimed to determine the neurodevelopmental (ND) outcome for children 
with hypoplastic left heart syndrome (HLHS) at early school age. 
English-speaking patients who underwent the Norwood procedure between 2000 and 
2005 were eligible at 4-6 years of age for ND testing. Of the 72 eligible 
patients, 44 (61 %) agreed to participate, and 37 completed ND testing before 
the close of the study. Three subjects were excluded from analyses due to late 
stroke. The ND testing included intelligence, visual motor integration, memory 
and motor and language skills. Parents and teachers completed measures of 
behavior and attention problems. Subjects' scores and parent/teacher ratings 
were converted to z-scores and compared with test norms. Higher scores on child 
measures represent better outcomes, whereas higher scores on parent and teacher 
rating scales indicate more problems. The average ND performance of the tested 
cohort fell within one standard deviation of the test norms for all measures. 
However, the subjects performed significantly lower than the test norms on 
measures of visual-motor integration, fine motor skills, memory, and word 
structure (z = -0.42 to -0.54; p < 0.005). On the parent and teacher completed 
measures, the subjects scored higher than the test norms on attention problems 
(z = 0.40-0.62; p < 0.005). Although the overall ND performance of the cohort 
was normal, the subjects showed relative weakness in visual motor and attention 
skills. Ongoing developmental monitoring of these children is recommended to 
guide interventions that may improve individual outcomes and to assess the 
impact of changes in clinical management strategies on functional outcomes.

DOI: 10.1007/s00246-013-0679-3
PMCID: PMC3982227
PMID: 23503929 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest The authors have no 
financial relationships relevant to this article to disclose. The authors have 
no conflicts of interest to disclose.


491. Sch Psychol Q. 2013 Mar;28(1):63-76. doi: 10.1037/spq0000013.

Interpreting the g loadings of intelligence test composite scores in light of 
Spearman's law of diminishing returns.

Reynolds MR(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Kansas.

Erratum in
    Sch Psychol Q. 2014 Jun;29(2):170.

The linear loadings of intelligence test composite scores on a general factor 
(g) have been investigated recently in factor analytic studies. Spearman's law 
of diminishing returns (SLODR), however, implies that the g loadings of test 
scores likely decrease in magnitude as g increases, or they are nonlinear. The 
purpose of this study was to (a) investigate whether the g loadings of composite 
scores from the Differential Ability Scales (2nd ed.) (DAS-II, C. D. Elliott, 
2007a, Differential Ability Scales (2nd ed.). San Antonio, TX: Pearson) were 
nonlinear and (b) if they were nonlinear, to compare them with linear g loadings 
to demonstrate how SLODR alters the interpretation of these loadings. Linear and 
nonlinear confirmatory factor analysis (CFA) models were used to model Nonverbal 
Reasoning, Verbal Ability, Visual Spatial Ability, Working Memory, and 
Processing Speed composite scores in four age groups (5-6, 7-8, 9-13, and 14-17) 
from the DAS-II norming sample. The nonlinear CFA models provided better fit to 
the data than did the linear models. In support of SLODR, estimates obtained 
from the nonlinear CFAs indicated that g loadings decreased as g level 
increased. The nonlinear portion for the nonverbal reasoning loading, however, 
was not statistically significant across the age groups. Knowledge of general 
ability level informs composite score interpretation because g is less likely to 
produce differences, or is measured less, in those scores at higher g levels. 
One implication is that it may be more important to examine the pattern of 
specific abilities at higher general ability levels.

PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2013 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/spq0000013
PMID: 23506024 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


492. Autism Res. 2013 Oct;6(5):307-19. doi: 10.1002/aur.1290. Epub 2013 Mar 18.

White matter and visuospatial processing in autism: a constrained spherical 
deconvolution tractography study.

McGrath J(1), Johnson K, O'Hanlon E, Garavan H, Gallagher L, Leemans A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Trinity Centre for Health Sciences, St James's 
Hospital, Dublin, Ireland.

Autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) are associated with a marked disturbance of 
neural functional connectivity, which may arise from disrupted organization of 
white matter. The aim of this study was to use constrained spherical 
deconvolution (CSD)-based tractography to isolate and characterize major 
intrahemispheric white matter tracts that are important in visuospatial 
processing. CSD-based tractography avoids a number of critical confounds that 
are associated with diffusion tensor tractography, and to our knowledge, this is 
the first time that this advanced diffusion tractography method has been used in 
autism research. Twenty-five participants with ASD and aged 25, intelligence 
quotient-matched controls completed a high angular resolution diffusion imaging 
scan. The inferior fronto-occipital fasciculus (IFOF) and arcuate fasciculus 
were isolated using CSD-based tractography. Quantitative diffusion measures of 
white matter microstructural organization were compared between groups and 
associated with visuospatial processing performance. Significant alteration of 
white matter organization was present in the right IFOF in individuals with ASD. 
In addition, poorer visuospatial processing was associated in individuals with 
ASD with disrupted white matter in the right IFOF. Using a novel, advanced 
tractography method to isolate major intrahemispheric white matter tracts in 
autism, this research has demonstrated that there are significant alterations in 
the microstructural organization of white matter in the right IFOF in ASD. This 
alteration was associated with poorer visuospatial processing performance in the 
ASD group. This study provides an insight into structural brain abnormalities 
that may influence atypical visuospatial processing in autism.

© 2013 International Society for Autism Research, Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/aur.1290
PMID: 23509018 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


493. J Sleep Res. 2013 Oct;22(5):542-8. doi: 10.1111/jsr.12049. Epub 2013 Mar 20.

Clinical implications of daytime sleepiness for the academic performance of 
middle school-aged adolescents with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder.

Langberg JM(1), Dvorsky MR, Marshall S, Evans SW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, VA, 
USA; Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center, Cincinatti, OH, USA.

This study investigated the relative impact of total time slept per night and 
daytime sleepiness on the academic functioning of 100 middle school-aged youth 
(mean age = 11.9) with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). The 
primary goal of the study was to determine if total time slept per night and/or 
daytime sleepiness, as measured by youth self-report on the Pediatric Daytime 
Sleepiness Scale (PDSS), predicted academic functioning above and beyond 
symptoms of ADHD and relevant covariates, such as intelligence, achievement 
scores and parent education level. Self-reported daytime sleepiness but not 
self-reported total time slept per night was associated significantly with all 
academic outcomes. When examined in a hierarchical regression model, 
self-reported daytime sleepiness significantly predicted parent-rated homework 
problems and academic impairment and teacher-rated academic competence above and 
beyond symptoms of ADHD and relevant covariates, but did not predict grade point 
average or teacher-rated academic impairment. The implications of these findings 
for understanding more clearly the association between ADHD and sleep and the 
functional implications of this relationship are discussed.

© 2013 European Sleep Research Society.

DOI: 10.1111/jsr.12049
PMCID: PMC3690160
PMID: 23509927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None of the authors have any actual or potential 
conflicts of interest to disclose.


494. J Atten Disord. 2016 Jan;20(1):34-40. doi: 10.1177/1087054713479666. Epub 2013 
Mar 19.

Relationship Between Sleep Problems and Quality of Life in Children With ADHD.

Yürümez E(1), Kılıç BG(2).

Author information:
(1)Kocaeli Derince Training and Research Hospital, Turkey esrayurumez@gmail.com.
(2)Ankara University School of Medicine, Turkey.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study is to assess the sleep behaviors, sleep 
problems and frequency, and relationship with psychiatric comorbidities in ADHD 
Combined type and to evaluate the effect of sleep problems on quality of life.
METHOD: Forty-six boys, aged 7 to 13 years, with ADHD-combined type and 31 
healthy boys were included. ADHD children were never treated for sleep or 
psychiatric disorders. Intelligence quotient (IQ) test scores were minimum 80, 
body mass index were normal and did not have medical disorders. Parents 
completed Children's Sleep Habits Questionnaire, Conners' Parent Rating Scale 
and The Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory (PedsQL) and participants were asked 
about sleep behaviors and were administered PedsQL and Schedule for Affective 
Disorders and Schizophrenia.
RESULTS: The frequency of sleep problems in ADHD is 84.8%, higher than the 
control group (p = .002). Evaluating PedsQL scores, the quality of life is worse 
in physical, psychosocial health, and total life quality (p < .05). ADHD group 
with sleep problems have more night wakings than control group with sleep 
problems (p = .02). The comorbidity do not increase sleep problems. The 
frequency of parasomnias is increased in group with learning disorders (p = 
.05).
CONCLUSION: The results of this study, which controls for a number of possible 
confounders found in previous examinations of ADHD and sleep, support the 
results of a number of other studies that have found an increased overall 
prevalence of parent-reported sleep disturbances in children with ADHD compared 
with healthy control participants. As the ADHD group have more night wakings 
than the control group through the night, it is thought that night wakings that 
cause a partitioned sleep may be important signs seen in ADHD. That could be 
suggested by two hypotheses. First one is that, daytime sleepiness is more 
common in ADHD and those children present excessive hyperactivity during the day 
to stay awake and the second one is the improvement of ADHD signs when the drugs 
for sleepiness are used. Usage of standardized and valid diagnostic criteria, 
exclusion of adolescence, gender, socioeconomic level, primary sleep problems, 
medical disorders and low IQ level, making allowances for effect of 
comorbidities and having compared with the control group are the important 
methodological features of this study. The most important limitation of this 
study is small sample size that makes the findings less generalizable to other 
groups of children with ADHD, and another one is not having used objective 
measurements together with subjective measurements. In conclusion, these results 
underscore the importance of screening all children who have a symptom 
constellation suggestive of ADHD for sleep problems that may either play a 
causative role or exacerbate the clinical appearance of ADHD in a given child. 
Correct evaluation and treatment of sleep problems increase the life quality of 
family and child and also decrease the severity of ADHD symptoms.

© The Author(s) 2013.

DOI: 10.1177/1087054713479666
PMID: 23511553 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


495. Clin EEG Neurosci. 2013 Apr;44(2):135-43. doi: 10.1177/1550059412465078. Epub 
2013 Mar 19.

Multidimensional analysis of the abnormal neural oscillations associated with 
lexical processing in schizophrenia.

Xu T(1), Stephane M, Parhi KK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering, University of Minnesota, 
Minneapolis, MN, USA.

The neural mechanisms of language abnormalities, the core symptoms in 
schizophrenia, remain unclear. In this study, a new experimental paradigm, 
combining magnetoencephalography (MEG) techniques and machine intelligence 
methodologies, was designed to gain knowledge about the frequency, brain 
location, and time of occurrence of the neural oscillations that are associated 
with lexical processing in schizophrenia. The 248-channel MEG recordings were 
obtained from 12 patients with schizophrenia and 10 healthy controls, during a 
lexical processing task, where the patients discriminated correct from incorrect 
lexical stimuli that were visually presented. Event-related 
desynchronization/synchronization (ERD/ERS) was computed along the frequency, 
time, and space dimensions combined, that resulted in a large 
spectral-spatial-temporal ERD/ERS feature set. Machine intelligence techniques 
were then applied to select a small subset of oscillation patterns that are 
abnormal in patients with schizophrenia, according to their discriminating power 
in patient and control classification. Patients with schizophrenia showed 
abnormal ERD/ERS patterns during both lexical encoding and post-encoding 
periods. The top-ranked features were located at the occipital and left 
frontal-temporal areas, and covered a wide frequency range, including δ (1-4 
Hz), α (8-12 Hz), β (12-32 Hz), and γ (32-48 Hz) bands. These top features could 
discriminate the patient group from the control group with 90.91% high accuracy, 
which demonstrates significant brain oscillation abnormalities in patients with 
schizophrenia at the specific frequency, time, and brain location indicated by 
these top features. As neural oscillation abnormality may be due to the 
mechanisms of the disease, the spectral, spatial, and temporal content of the 
discriminating features can offer useful information for helping understand the 
physiological basis of the language disorder in schizophrenia, as well as the 
pathology of the disease itself.

DOI: 10.1177/1550059412465078
PMID: 23513013 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


496. PLoS One. 2013;8(3):e58904. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0058904. Epub 2013 Mar 13.

Do dietary trajectories between infancy and toddlerhood influence IQ in 
childhood and adolescence? Results from a prospective birth cohort study.

Smithers LG(1), Golley RK, Mittinty MN, Brazionis L, Northstone K, Emmett P, 
Lynch JW.

Author information:
(1)Discipline of Public Health, The University of Adelaide, Adelaide, South 
Australia, Australia. lisa.smithers@adelaide.edu.au

OBJECTIVE: We examined whether trajectories of dietary patterns from 6 to 24 
months of age are associated with intelligence quotient (IQ) in childhood and 
adolescence.
METHODS: Participants were children enrolled in a prospective UK birth cohort 
(n = 7,652) who had IQ measured at age 8 and/or 15 years. Dietary patterns were 
previously extracted from questionnaires when children were aged 6, 15 and 24 
months using principal component analysis. Dietary trajectories were generated 
by combining scores on similar dietary patterns across each age, using 
multilevel mixed models. Associations between dietary trajectories and IQ were 
examined in generalized linear models with adjustment for potential confounders.
RESULTS: Four dietary pattern trajectories were constructed from 6 to 24 months 
of age and were named according to foods that made the strongest contribution to 
trajectory scores; Healthy (characterised by breastfeeding at 6 months, raw 
fruit and vegetables, cheese and herbs at 15 and 24 months); Discretionary 
(biscuits, chocolate, crisps at all ages), Traditional (meat, cooked vegetables 
and puddings at all ages) and, Ready-to-eat (use of ready-prepared baby foods at 
6 and 15 months, biscuits, bread and breakfast cereals at 24 months). In 
fully-adjusted models, a 1 SD change in the Healthy trajectory was weakly 
associated with higher IQ at age 8 (1.07 (95%CI 0.17, 1.97)) but not 15 years 
(0.49 (-0.28, 1.26)). Associations between the Discretionary and Traditional 
trajectories with IQ at 8 and 15 years were as follows; Discretionary; 8 years 
-0.35(-1.03, 0.33), 15 years -0.73(-1.33, -0.14) Traditional; 8 years 
-0.19(-0.71, 0.33)15 years -0.41(-0.77, -0.04)). The Ready-to-eat trajectory had 
no association with IQ at either age (8 years 0.32(-4.31, 4.95), 15 years 
1.11(-3.10, 5.33).
CONCLUSIONS: The Discretionary and Traditional dietary pattern trajectories from 
6 to 24 months of age, over the period when food patterns begin to emerge, are 
weakly associated with IQ in adolescence.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0058904
PMCID: PMC3596350
PMID: 23516574 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have read the 
journal's policy and have the following conflicts. KN and PE have received 
support from Danone and PE has received support from Pfizer and Plum Baby, who 
might have an interest in the submitted work. There are no patents, products in 
development or marketed products to declare. This does not alter the authors' 
adherence to all the PLOS ONE policies on sharing data and materials, as 
detailed online in the guide for authors.


497. PLoS One. 2013;8(3):e58991. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0058991. Epub 2013 Mar 14.

Drawing a close to the use of human figure drawings as a projective measure of 
intelligence.

Imuta K(1), Scarf D, Pharo H, Hayne H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Otago, Dunedin, New Zealand.

The practice of using children's human figure drawings (HFDs) to assess their 
intellectual ability is pervasive among psychologists and therapists in many 
countries. Since the first systematic scoring system for HFDs was published in 
1926, their continued popularity has led to the development of several revised 
versions of the test. Most recently, the Draw-A-Person Intellectual Ability Test 
for children, adolescents, and adults (DAP:IQ) was published. It is the most 
up-to-date form of HFD test designed to assess intellectual functioning across a 
wide age range. In the present study, we assessed the validity of the DAP:IQ as 
a screening measure of intelligence in both children and adults. In Experiment 
1, 100 4- to 5-year-old children completed the DAP:IQ and the Wechsler Preschool 
and Primary Scale of Intelligence-Third Edition. In Experiment 2, 100 adults 
completed the DAP:IQ and the Wechsler Abbreviated Scale of Intelligence. In both 
experiments, we found only weak to modest correlations between scores on the 
DAP:IQ and the Wechsler tests. Furthermore, when we compared individual's scores 
on the two tests, the DAP:IQ yielded high false positive and false negative 
rates when screening for borderline and superior intellectual functioning. Based 
on these findings, and based on the lack of validity of previous HFD tests, we 
conclude that practitioners should not rely on HFD tests as a projective measure 
of intelligence.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0058991
PMCID: PMC3597590
PMID: 23516590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


498. Cortex. 2013 Nov-Dec;49(10):2700-10. doi: 10.1016/j.cortex.2013.02.009. Epub 
2013 Feb 19.

Association of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) haploinsufficiency with 
lower adaptive behaviour and reduced cognitive functioning in WAGR/11p13 
deletion syndrome.

Han JC(1), Thurm A, Golden Williams C, Joseph LA, Zein WM, Brooks BP, Butman JA, 
Brady SM, Fuhr SR, Hicks MD, Huey AE, Hanish AE, Danley KM, Raygada MJ, Rennert 
OM, Martinowich K, Sharp SJ, Tsao JW, Swedo SE.

Author information:
(1)Unit on Metabolism and Neuroendocrinology, Eunice Kennedy Shriver National 
Institute of Child Health and Human Development (NICHD), National Institutes of 
Health, Bethesda, MD, USA; Section on Growth and Obesity, Program in 
Developmental Endocrinology and Genetics, NICHD, National Institutes of Health, 
Bethesda, MD, USA. Electronic address: hanjo@mail.nih.gov.

In animal studies, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is an important 
regulator of central nervous system development and synaptic plasticity. WAGR 
(Wilms tumour, Aniridia, Genitourinary anomalies, and mental Retardation) 
syndrome is caused by 11p13 deletions of variable size near the BDNF locus and 
can serve as a model for studying human BDNF haploinsufficiency (+/-). We 
hypothesized that BDNF+/- would be associated with more severe cognitive 
impairment in subjects with WAGR syndrome. Twenty-eight subjects with WAGR 
syndrome (6-28 years), 12 subjects with isolated aniridia due to PAX6 
mutations/microdeletions (7-54 years), and 20 healthy controls (4-32 years) 
received neurocognitive assessments. Deletion boundaries for the subjects in the 
WAGR group were determined by high-resolution oligonucleotide array comparative 
genomic hybridization. Within the WAGR group, BDNF+/- subjects (n = 15), 
compared with BDNF intact (+/+) subjects (n = 13), had lower adaptive behaviour 
(p = .02), reduced cognitive functioning (p = .04), higher levels of reported 
historical (p = .02) and current (p = .02) social impairment, and higher 
percentage meeting cut-off score for autism (p = .047) on Autism Diagnostic 
Interview-Revised. These differences remained nominally significant after 
adjusting for visual acuity. Using diagnostic measures and clinical judgement, 3 
subjects (2 BDNF+/- and 1 BDNF+/+) in the WAGR group (10.7%) were classified 
with autism spectrum disorder. A comparison group of visually impaired subjects 
with isolated aniridia had cognitive functioning comparable to that of healthy 
controls. In summary, among subjects with WAGR syndrome, BDNF+/- subjects had a 
mean Vineland Adaptive Behaviour Compose score that was 14-points lower and a 
mean intelligence quotient (IQ) that was 20-points lower than BDNF+/+ subjects. 
Our findings support the hypothesis that BDNF plays an important role in human 
neurocognitive development.

Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cortex.2013.02.009
PMCID: PMC3762943
PMID: 23517654 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


499. Arthritis Res Ther. 2013 Mar 21;15(2):R45. doi: 10.1186/ar4204.

Possible rheumatoid arthritis subtypes in terms of rheumatoid factor, 
depression, diagnostic delay and emotional expression: an exploratory 
case-control study.

Tillmann T, Krishnadas R, Cavanagh J, Petrides KV.

INTRODUCTION: Dysregulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis has 
been implicated in the pathology of rheumatoid arthritis (RA), particularly as 
vulnerable personality types are exposed to chronic stress. Emotions are 
powerful modulators of stress responses. However, little is known about whether 
patients with RA process emotions differently to matched controls. In this study 
we: 1) assessed whether the trait emotional intelligence (trait EI) scores of 
patients with RA differ from healthy controls at the facet level; 2) explored 
any subgroups in RA, in terms of trait EI and common risk factors.
METHODS: A total of 637 patients with RA were compared to 496 controls on the 
trait EI Questionnaire (TEIQue). RA subgroups were explored in terms of trait 
EI, rheumatoid factor status (RF+/-), depression and time from onset of symptoms 
until diagnosis (diagnostic delay).
RESULTS: The RA group rated themselves lower on Adaptability, Stress-management, 
Emotion management, Self-esteem, Sociability, Assertiveness, Impulsiveness and 
Well-being, and higher on Empathy and Relationships than healthy controls. The 
RF- subtype reported more time with depression (25.2 vs. 11.3 months), a longer 
diagnostic delay (3.0 vs. 1.7 years), and greater emotional expression (5.15 vs. 
4.72), than the RF+ subtype. These differences were significant at the P <0.05 
level, but not following strict Bonferroni corrections and should therefore be 
treated as indicative only. RF- patients with a longer diagnostic delay reported 
depression lasting three times longer (42.7 months), when compared to three 
other subtypes (11.0 to 12.7 months).
CONCLUSIONS: RA patients and controls differ in their emotion-related 
personality traits, as operationalized by trait EI. These differences may make 
people with RA more susceptible to chronic stress and HPA-axis dysregulation. RA 
may be a highly heterogeneous illness where at least two subtypes may be 
characterized by personality, psychiatric and immunological differences. RF- 
status, as well as diagnostic delay and emotional expression, may predict future 
risk of depression. Research on the causes of RA could benefit from a systems 
science approach.

DOI: 10.1186/ar4204
PMCID: PMC3672797
PMID: 23517876 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


500. Lancet Neurol. 2013 Apr;12(4):406-14. doi: 10.1016/S1474-4422(13)70011-5. Epub 
2013 Mar 18.

Developmental brain dysfunction: revival and expansion of old concepts based on 
new genetic evidence.

Moreno-De-Luca A(1), Myers SM, Challman TD, Moreno-De-Luca D, Evans DW, 
Ledbetter DH.

Author information:
(1)Autism and Developmental Medicine Institute, Geisinger Health System, 
Danville, PA 17822, USA.

Erratum in
    Lancet Neurol. 2013 May;12(5):423.

Neurodevelopmental disorders can be caused by many different genetic 
abnormalities that are individually rare but collectively common. Specific 
genetic causes, including certain copy number variants and single-gene 
mutations, are shared among disorders that are thought to be clinically 
distinct. This evidence of variability in the clinical manifestations of 
individual genetic variants and sharing of genetic causes among clinically 
distinct brain disorders is consistent with the concept of developmental brain 
dysfunction, a term we use to describe the abnormal brain function underlying a 
group of neurodevelopmental and neuropsychiatric disorders and to encompass a 
subset of various clinical diagnoses. Although many pathogenic genetic variants 
are currently thought to be variably penetrant, we hypothesise that when 
disorders encompassed by developmental brain dysfunction are considered as a 
group, the penetrance will approach 100%. The penetrance is also predicted to 
approach 100% when the phenotype being considered is a specific trait, such as 
intelligence or autistic-like social impairment, and the trait could be assessed 
using a continuous, quantitative measure to compare probands with non-carrier 
family members rather than a qualitative, dichotomous trait and comparing 
probands with the healthy population.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1474-4422(13)70011-5
PMCID: PMC4013791
PMID: 23518333 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest We declare that we have no 
conflicts of interest.


501. Hippocampus. 2013 Jul;23(7):552-8. doi: 10.1002/hipo.22120. Epub 2013 Apr 29.

Hippocampal volume predicts fluid intelligence in musically trained people.

Oechslin MS(1), Descloux C, Croquelois A, Chanal J, Van De Ville D, Lazeyras F, 
James CE.

Author information:
(1)Geneva Neuroscience Center, University of Geneva, CH-1211 Geneva 4, 
Switzerland. mathias.oechslin@uzh.ch

Recently, age-related hippocampal (HP) volume loss could be associated with a 
decrease in general fluid intelligence (gF). In the present study we 
investigated whether and how extensive musical training modulates human HP 
volume and gF performance. Previously, some studies demonstrated positive 
effects of musical training on higher cognitive functions such as learning and 
memory, associated with neural adaptations beyond the auditory domain. In order 
to detect possible associations between musical training and gF, we bilaterally 
segmented the HP formation and assessed the individual gF performance of people 
with different levels of musical expertise. Multiple regression analyses 
revealed that HP volume predicts gF in musicians but not in nonmusicians; in 
particular, bilaterally enhanced HP volume is associated with increased gF 
exclusively in musically trained people (amateurs and experts). This result 
suggests that musical training facilitates the recruitment of cognitive 
resources, which are essential for gF and linked to HP functioning. Musical 
training, even at a moderate level of intensity, can thus be considered as a 
potential strategy to decelerate age-related effects of cognitive decline.

Copyright © 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/hipo.22120
PMID: 23519979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


502. PLoS One. 2013;8(3):e58562. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0058562. Epub 2013 Mar 8.

Third-party ranks knowledge in wild vervet monkeys (Chlorocebus aethiops 
pygerythrus).

Borgeaud C(1), van de Waal E, Bshary R.

Author information:
(1)University of Neuchâtel, Institute of Biology, Neuchâtel, Switzerland. 
christele.borgeaud@unine.ch

The Machiavellian/Social Intelligence Hypothesis proposes that a complex social 
environment selected for advanced cognitive abilities in vertebrates. In 
primates it has been proposed that sophisticated social strategies like 
obtaining suitable coalition partners are an important component of social 
intelligence. Knowing the rank relationships between group members is a basic 
requirement for the efficient use of coalitions and the anticipation of 
counter-coalitions. Experimental evidence for such knowledge currently exists in 
only few species. Here, we conducted rank reversal playback experiments on adult 
females belonging to three different groups of free-ranging vervet monkeys 
(Chlorocebus aethiops pygerythrus) to test their knowledge of the female 
hierarchy. Playbacks simulating rank reversals (subordinate aggressing a 
dominant) induced longer looking times than playbacks simulating a dominant 
aggressing a subordinate. Vervet monkey females therefore seem to compute the 
rank relationships between other females. Our results suggest that detailed 
social knowledge about rank relationships may be widespread in primates and 
potentially also in other species living in stable groups.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0058562
PMCID: PMC3592794
PMID: 23520521 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


503. Int J Hyg Environ Health. 2013 Jul;216(4):486-93. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijheh.2013.02.004. Epub 2013 Mar 6.

Neuropsychological assessment at school-age and prenatal low-level exposure to 
mercury through fish consumption in an Italian birth cohort living near a 
contaminated site.

Deroma L(1), Parpinel M, Tognin V, Channoufi L, Tratnik J, Horvat M, Valent F, 
Barbone F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical and Biological Sciences, Udine University, Udine, 
Italy; SOC Centro di Coordinamento per le Malattie rare, Azienda 
Ospedaliero-Universitaria di Udine, Udine, Italy.

The relative effects of prenatal and postnatal low-level mercury exposure and 
fish intake on child neurodevelopment are still controversial. Limited evidence 
is available from Mediterranean populations. In this prospective study, we 
measured the Verbal and Performance IQ in Italian children at school-age who 
were resident in an area declared as a National contaminated site because of 
mercury pollution, taking into account the possible beneficial effect of fish 
consumption and potential confounders. A mother-child cohort made up of 242 
children was established at birth in Northeastern Italy in 2001. Their mothers 
were interviewed approximately 2 months after delivery to determine type, 
quantity, and origin of fish consumed during pregnancy and about a number of 
mother, child and family characteristics. Total mercury (THg) and methyl mercury 
(MeHg) were assessed in maternal hair and breast milk and in the child's hair. 
When children reached 7-9 years of age, 154 (63.6%) parents gave consent to 
participate in a follow-up evaluation. On that occasion, a child's hair sample 
was collected to determine the current concentration of THg, mothers were asked 
to complete a self-administered questionnaire, and children underwent 
neuropsychological testing. Verbal IQ, performance IQ and full scale IQ were 
measured by the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children (WISC III) administered 
by psychologists at school or local health centers. Demographic, socioeconomic 
and lifestyle information, medical information of the child's family and the 
child's dietary habits were collected using a questionnaire filled in by 
mothers. Multivariable linear regression models were used to evaluate the 
association between prenatal THg exposure through fish consumption of mothers in 
pregnancy and children's IQ after adjustment for possible confounders such as 
fish consumption of mothers in pregnancy, child's fish consumption at follow-up, 
child's birthweight, maternal cigarette smoking during pregnancy, house size and 
property place of residence during pregnancy and gender. THg in the child's hair 
at 7 years of age was fairly correlated with THg in maternal hair at delivery 
(rs=0.35; p<0.0001) and was strongly correlated with child's seafood consumption 
(rs=0.50, p<0.0001). No differences in maternal THg levels were found when 
comparing children with low or extremely low or high or extremely high scores vs 
others, considering separately full scale, verbal, and performance IQs. Children 
born from mothers with hair THg levels greater than or equal to 2000ng/g had 
full scale, verbal and performance IQs which were 4-5 points lower than children 
born from women with lower THg levels, but these differences were not 
statistically significant. Fresh fish intake of mothers in pregnancy was 
slightly positively associated with full scale and performance but not so with 
verbal IQs. Canned fish showed to be negatively associated with all the outcome 
variables. Unexpectedly, children born to mothers from one town showed IQ scores 
significantly lower than the other children; however, none of the many variables 
considered in these analyses could explain this result. The relatively low Hg 
levels found in the biological samples did not provide evidence of high and 
extensive Hg exposure in this population. Although THg levels in maternal and 
child's biological samples are correlated with fish consumption, the effects of 
THg and fish on neurological outcomes go in opposite directions. These results 
do not allow to develop recommendations regarding fish consumption in pregnancy 
but suggest that keeping THg hair levels<2000ng/g might be desirable.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijheh.2013.02.004
PMID: 23523155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


504. J Clin Anesth. 2013 May;25(3):181-7. doi: 10.1016/j.jclinane.2012.08.002. Epub 
2013 Mar 22.

Emotional intelligence and the relationship to resident performance: a 
multi-institutional study.

Talarico JF(1), Varon AJ, Banks SE, Berger JS, Pivalizza EG, Medina-Rivera G, 
Rimal J, Davidson M, Dai F, Qin L, Ball RD, Loudd C, Schoenberg C, Wetmore AL, 
Metro DG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213, USA. joetalarico214@yahoo.com

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To test the hypothesis that emotional intelligence, as measured 
by a BarOn Emotional Quotient Inventory (EQ-i), the 125-item version personal 
inventory (EQ-i:125), correlates with resident performance.
DESIGN: Survey (personal inventory) instrument.
SETTING: Five U.S. academic anesthesiology residency programs.
PARTICIPANTS: Postgraduate year (PGY) 2, 3, and 4 residents enrolled in 
university-based anesthesiology residency programs.
MEASUREMENTS: Residents confidentially completed the BarOn EQ-i:125 personal 
inventory. The deidentified resident evaluations were sent to the principal 
investigator of a separate data collection study for data analysis. Data 
collected from the inventory were correlated with daily evaluations of the 
residents by residency program faculty. Results of the individual BarOn EQ-i:125 
and daily faculty evaluations of the residents were compiled and analyzed.
MAIN RESULTS: Univariate correlation analysis and multivariate canonical 
analysis showed that some aspects of the BarOn EQ-i:125 were significantly 
correlated with, and likely to be predictors of, resident performance.
CONCLUSIONS: Emotional intelligence, as measured by the BarOn EQ-i personal 
inventory, has considerable promise as an independent indicator of performance 
as an anesthesiology resident.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jclinane.2012.08.002
PMID: 23523976 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


505. J Child Fam Stud. 2013 Apr;22(3):368-376. doi: 10.1007/s10826-012-9587-z. Epub 
2012 May 1.

Psychiatric Comorbidity in Children with Autism Spectrum Disorders: A Comparison 
with Children with ADHD.

van Steensel FJ(1), Bögels SM, de Bruin EI.

Author information:
(1)Research Institute of Child Development and Education, University of 
Amsterdam, Nieuwe Prinsengracht 130, 1018 VZ Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

The present study was conducted with the aim to identify comorbid psychiatric 
disorders in children with autism spectrum disorders (ASD) (n = 40) and to 
compare those comorbidity rates to those in children with attention deficit 
hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) (n = 40). Participants were clinically referred 
children aged 7-18 years. DSM-IV classifications were used for the primary 
diagnosis (ASD/ADHD), while comorbid psychiatric disorders were assessed using a 
structured diagnostic interview, the structured clinical interview for DSM-IV, 
childhood diagnoses (KID-SCID). Twenty-three children with ASD (57.5 %) had at 
least one comorbid disorder, whereas 16 children with ADHD (40.0 %) were 
classified as having at least one comorbid disorder. No group differences were 
found with respect to this comorbidity rate or for the rate of comorbid 
externalizing disorders (ODD and/or CD). However, children with ASD had more 
comorbid internalizing disorders compared to children with ADHD. More 
specifically, children with ASD had higher rates of anxiety disorders, but not 
mood disorders. No associations between comorbidity and age or between 
comorbidity and the intelligence quotient was found. It is important for 
clinicians to always be aware of, and screen for, comorbidity, and to consider 
treatment for these comorbid disorders. In addition, research should focus on 
establishing valid and reliable screening tools as well as effective treatment 
options for these comorbid disorders.

DOI: 10.1007/s10826-012-9587-z
PMCID: PMC3602612
PMID: 23524401


506. Front Psychol. 2013 Mar 22;4:130. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2013.00130. eCollection 
2013.

Prospective memory, personality, and individual differences.

Uttl B(1), White CA, Wong Gonzalez D, McDouall J, Leonard CA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Mount Royal University Calgary, AB, Canada.

A number of studies investigating the relationship between personality and 
prospective memory (ProM) have appeared during the last decade. However, a 
review of these studies reveals little consistency in their findings and 
conclusions. To clarify the relationship between ProM and personality, we 
conducted two studies: a meta-analysis of prior research investigating the 
relationships between ProM and personality, and a study with 378 participants 
examining the relationships between ProM, personality, verbal intelligence, and 
retrospective memory. Our review of prior research revealed great variability in 
the measures used to assess ProM, and in the methodological quality of prior 
research; these two factors may partially explain inconsistent findings in the 
literature. Overall, the meta-analysis revealed very weak correlations (rs 
ranging from 0.09 to 0.10) between ProM and three of the Big Five factors: 
Openness, Conscientiousness, and Agreeableness. Our experimental study showed 
that ProM performance was related to individual differences such as verbal 
intelligence as well as to personality factors and that the relationship between 
ProM and personality factors depends on the ProM subdomain. In combination, the 
two studies suggest that ProM performance is relatively weakly related to 
personality factors and more strongly related to individual differences in 
cognitive factors.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2013.00130
PMCID: PMC3605513
PMID: 23525147


507. Emotion. 2013 Aug;13(4):691-702. doi: 10.1037/a0031746. Epub 2013 Mar 25.

Emotional intelligence and psychopathy: a comparison of trait and ability 
measures.

Copestake S(1), Gray NS, Snowden RJ.

Author information:
(1)HMP Leyhill, Wotton-Under-Edge, Gloucestershire,United Kingdom.

A dysfunction in the processing of emotional material has been suggested to 
underpin the concept of psychopathy, hence we hypothesized that individuals high 
in psychopathic traits should have low scores on measure of emotional 
intelligence (EI). We measured EI by using both an ability-based measure 
(Mayer-Salovey-Caruso Emotional Intelligence Test) and a self-report measure 
(Trait Meta-Mood Scale) in a sample of offenders. Psychopathy was measured by 
using both a clinical checklist (Psychopathy Checklist-Revised) and a 
self-report scale (Psychopathy Personality Inventory-Revised). We also took a 
measure of intellectual ability (Wechsler Abbreviated Scale of Intelligence) to 
assess any unique contribution from EI over that of IQ. We found that the 
concepts of EI (both ability-based and self-report) were related to IQ. We also 
found that there was a negative relationship between self-report EI and ability 
EI. In relation to psychopathy, the results did not support the hypotheses of a 
general deficit in EI. While the results relating different facets of 
psychopathy to different aspects of EI were complex, there was some evidence 
that some aspects of psychopathy were positively related to the unique variance 
related to EI once IQ was partialled out. We suggest that there is not a general 
deficit in EI in psychopathy, and that future research needs carefully to 
carefully consider just what aspects of psychopathy and of EI are being 
measured, and the influence of intellectual ability, before drawing conclusions 
on this matter.

PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2013 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/a0031746
PMID: 23527501 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


508. Neuropsychology. 2013 Mar;27(2):220-9. doi: 10.1037/a0032060.

The relationship between working memory capacity and broad measures of cognitive 
ability in healthy adults and people with schizophrenia.

Johnson MK(1), McMahon RP, Robinson BM, Harvey AN, Hahn B, Leonard CJ, Luck SJ, 
Gold JM.

Author information:
(1)Baltimore VA Mental Health Care System, Mental Illness Research, Education & 
Clinical Center (VA Capital Health Care Network), Baltimore, Maryland, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Working memory (WM) capacity, typically measured with cognitively 
complex span tasks, is correlated with higher order cognitive abilities in 
healthy adults. The goals of this study were to determine whether a more focused 
measure of visual WM storage capacity would show similar higher order ability 
correlations in healthy adults and in people with schizophrenia (PSZ), thereby 
demonstrating the importance of simple storage capacity; determine whether the 
illness alters the pattern of correlations across cognitive domains; and 
evaluate whether between-groups differences in WM capacity could account for the 
generalized cognitive impairment in PSZ.
METHOD: Ninety-nine PSZ and 77 healthy controls (HCs) completed a visual WM 
change-localization task, the Wechsler Abbreviated Scale of Intelligence (WASI), 
and the MATRICS Consensus Cognitive Battery (MCCB).
RESULTS: PSZ performed more poorly than HCs on all cognitive measures. The 
between-groups effect size for WM capacity was large (d = 1.11). WM robustly 
correlated with WASI and MCCB performance, with no significant differences in 
the magnitude or pattern of correlations across groups. When the groups were 
pooled, WM capacity correlated at r = .68 with MCCB composite score and at r = 
.56 with WASI estimated Full Scale IQ. WM capacity accounted for approximately 
40% of the between-groups variance across the WASI and MCCB.
CONCLUSIONS: A simple measure of WM storage capacity is robustly associated with 
the higher order cognitive abilities assessed by the WASI and MCCB in HCs and 
PSZ. WM capacity reduction may be a critical determinant of the general 
cognitive impairment in PSZ.

PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2013 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/a0032060
PMCID: PMC3746349
PMID: 23527650 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


509. Bipolar Disord. 2013 May;15(3):294-305. doi: 10.1111/bdi.12056. Epub 2013 Mar 
26.

Occupational outcome in bipolar disorder is not predicted by premorbid 
functioning and intelligence.

Schoeyen HK(1), Melle I, Sundet K, Aminoff SR, Hellvin T, Auestad BH, Morken G, 
Andreassen OA.

Author information:
(1)Moodnet Research Group, Division of Psychiatry, Stavanger University 
Hospital, Stavanger, Norway. hsc@sus.no

OBJECTIVES: Bipolar disorder (BD), over the long term, can manifest a variety of 
outcomes depending on a number of different conditions. There is a need for 
further knowledge regarding preventive factors as well as predictors of the 
disabling course of the disorder. Studies regarding the impact on functional 
outcome of premorbid and current general intellectual function [intelligence 
quotient (IQ)] and premorbid functioning in BD patients are sparse. The present 
study addressed the role of premorbid functioning [assessed with the Premorbid 
Adjustment Scale (PAS)], intelligence, course of illness, and sociodemographics 
on occupational outcome in BD.
METHODS: Bipolar disorder patients were recruited consecutively from psychiatric 
units (outpatient and inpatient) in four major hospitals in Oslo, Norway [(N = 
226: 64.4% bipolar I disorder (BD-I); 30.1% bipolar II disorder (BD-II); 5.5% 
bipolar disorder not otherwise specified (BD-NOS); 38.6% males]. The 
associations between current IQ, premorbid IQ [assessed using the National Adult 
Reading Test (NART)], PAS, clinical and sociodemographic characteristics, and 
receipt of disability benefit were analysed using descriptive statistics and 
logistic regression analyses.
RESULTS: The number of hospitalizations for depressive episodes and illness 
duration was associated with a higher risk of receipt of disability benefit. 
PAS, premorbid and current IQ, as well as decline in IQ, did not explain the 
higher risk of receipt of disability benefits.
CONCLUSIONS: Severe clinical course of BD was associated with receipt of 
disability benefit. Occupational outcome was unrelated to PAS, premorbid and 
current IQ, as well as decline in IQ. This suggests that the persistence of 
severe clinical symptoms, rather than global cognitive functioning, determines 
occupational outcome in BD and emphasizes the protective potential of early and 
continuous clinical treatment.

© 2013 John Wiley and Sons A/S. Published by Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/bdi.12056
PMID: 23527993 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


510. Appl Neuropsychol Adult. 2013 Oct-Dec;20(4):249-256. doi: 
10.1080/09084282.2012.710180. Epub 2013 Mar 26.

A Validated Seven-Subtest Short Form for the WAIS-IV.

Meyers JE(1), Zellinger MM(2), Kockler T(3), Wagner M(4), Miller RM(5).

Author information:
(1)a Private Practice , Mililani , Hawaii.
(2)b Private Practice , Brunswick , Maine.
(3)c Private Practice, St. George , Utah.
(4)d Private Practice, Philadelphia and Jenkintown, Pennsylvania.
(5)e Psychology, Brigham Young University Hawaii , Laie , Hawaii.

This study presents a short form of the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Fourth 
Edition (WAIS-IV; Wechsler, 2008 ) using the subtests (Block Design, 
Similarities, Digit Span, Arithmetic, Information, Coding, and Picture 
Completion) suggested by Ward ( 1990 ). These seven subtests were used to 
predict the full WAIS-IV Full-Scale IQ, as well as the Verbal Comprehension, 
Perceptual Reasoning, Working Memory, and Processing Speed Index scores. Two 
different data sets were used: the first consisted of 70 subjects and the second 
consisted of 32 subjects. The first data set was used to create a linear 
regression and the second data set was used to validate the results and compare 
to the prorated score method from the WAIS-IV manual. The prorated estimated 
scores correlated significantly with their counterparts and proved to be a 
better method of estimating the Full-Scale IQ and most of the index scores, but 
the regression equation was better at predicting the Processing Speed Index. The 
current study is consistent with the Ward ( 1990 ) and Pilgrim, Meyers, Bayless, 
& Whetstone (1999) studies and represents a reliable and valid way of assessing 
intellectual functioning in an abbreviated format.

DOI: 10.1080/09084282.2012.710180
PMID: 23530602


511. Memory. 2014;22(4):323-31. doi: 10.1080/09658211.2013.781186. Epub 2013 Mar 26.

Effects of impoverished environmental conditions on working memory performance.

Engel de Abreu PM(1), Puglisi ML, Cruz-Santos A, Befi-Lopes DM, Martin R.

Author information:
(1)a EMACS Research Unit , University of Luxembourg , Luxembourg.

This cross-cultural study investigates the impact of background experience on 
four verbal and visuo-spatial working memory (WM) tasks. A total of 84 children 
from low-income families were recruited from the following groups: (1) 
Portuguese immigrant children from Luxembourg impoverished in terms of language 
experience; (2) Brazilian children deprived in terms of scholastic background; 
(3) Portuguese children from Portugal with no disadvantage in either scholastic 
or language background. Children were matched on age, gender, fluid 
intelligence, and socioeconomic status and completed four simple and complex 
span tasks of WM and a vocabulary measure. Results indicate that, despite large 
differences in their backgrounds and language abilities, the groups exhibited 
comparable performance on the visuo-spatial tasks dot matrix and odd-one-out and 
on the verbal simple span task digit recall. Group differences emerged on the 
verbal complex span task counting recall with children from Luxembourg and 
Portugal outperforming children from disadvantaged schools in Brazil. The study 
suggests that whereas contributions of prior knowledge to digit span, dot 
matrix, and odd-one-out are likely to be minimal, background experience can 
affect performance on counting recall. Implications for testing WM capacity in 
children growing up in poverty are discussed.

DOI: 10.1080/09658211.2013.781186
PMID: 23531204 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


512. Psychol Sci. 2013 May;24(5):648-59. doi: 10.1177/0956797612457784. Epub 2013 Mar 
26.

Who rises to the top? Early indicators.

Kell HJ(1), Lubinski D, Benbow CP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology and Human Development, Vanderbilt University, 0552 
GPC, 230 Appleton Place, Nashville, TN 37203, USA. harrison.kell@vanderbilt.edu

Youth identified before age 13 (N = 320) as having profound mathematical or 
verbal reasoning abilities (top 1 in 10,000) were tracked for nearly three 
decades. Their awards and creative accomplishments by age 38, in combination 
with specific details about their occupational responsibilities, illuminate the 
magnitude of their contribution and professional stature. Many have been 
entrusted with obligations and resources for making critical decisions about 
individual and organizational well-being. Their leadership positions in 
business, health care, law, the professoriate, and STEM (science, technology, 
engineering, and mathematics) suggest that many are outstanding creators of 
modern culture, constituting a precious human-capital resource. Identifying 
truly profound human potential, and forecasting differential development within 
such populations, requires assessing multiple cognitive abilities and using 
atypical measurement procedures. This study illustrates how ultimate criteria 
may be aggregated and longitudinally sequenced to validate such measures.

DOI: 10.1177/0956797612457784
PMID: 23531483 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


513. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 2013 Aug;228(3):375-88. doi: 
10.1007/s00213-013-3044-6. Epub 2013 Mar 27.

ERP evidence suggests executive dysfunction in ecstasy polydrug users.

Roberts CA(1), Fairclough SH, Fisk JE, Tames F, Montgomery C.

Author information:
(1)School of Natural Sciences and Psychology, LJMU, Tom Reilly Building, Byrom 
St, Liverpool L3 3AF, UK.

BACKGROUND: Deficits in executive functions such as access to semantic/long-term 
memory have been shown in ecstasy users in previous research. Equally, there 
have been many reports of equivocal findings in this area. The current study 
sought to further investigate behavioural and electro-physiological measures of 
this executive function in ecstasy users.
METHOD: Twenty ecstasy-polydrug users, 20 non-ecstasy-polydrug users and 20 
drug-naïve controls were recruited. Participants completed background 
questionnaires about their drug use, sleep quality, fluid intelligence and mood 
state. Each individual also completed a semantic retrieval task whilst 64 
channel Electroencephalography (EEG) measures were recorded.
RESULTS: Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) revealed no between-group differences in 
behavioural performance on the task. Mixed ANOVA on event-related potential 
(ERP) components P2, N2 and P3 revealed significant between-group differences in 
the N2 component. Subsequent exploratory univariate ANOVAs on the N2 component 
revealed marginally significant between-group differences, generally showing 
greater negativity at occipito-parietal electrodes in ecstasy users compared to 
drug-naïve controls. Despite absence of behavioural differences, differences in 
N2 magnitude are evidence of abnormal executive functioning in ecstasy-polydrug 
users.

DOI: 10.1007/s00213-013-3044-6
PMID: 23532375 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


514. PLoS One. 2013;8(3):e59329. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0059329. Epub 2013 Mar 22.

Abstract spatial reasoning as an autistic strength.

Stevenson JL(1), Gernsbacher MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Ursinus College, Collegeville, Pennsylvania, United 
States of America. jstevenson@ursinus.edu

Autistic individuals typically excel on spatial tests that measure abstract 
reasoning, such as the Block Design subtest on intelligence test batteries and 
the Raven's Progressive Matrices nonverbal test of intelligence. Such 
well-replicated findings suggest that abstract spatial processing is a relative 
and perhaps absolute strength of autistic individuals. However, previous studies 
have not systematically varied reasoning level--concrete vs. abstract--and test 
domain--spatial vs. numerical vs. verbal, which the current study did. Autistic 
participants (N = 72) and non-autistic participants (N = 72) completed a battery 
of 12 tests that varied by reasoning level (concrete vs. abstract) and domain 
(spatial vs. numerical vs. verbal). Autistic participants outperformed 
non-autistic participants on abstract spatial tests. Non-autistic participants 
did not outperform autistic participants on any of the three domains (spatial, 
numerical, and verbal) or at either of the two reasoning levels (concrete and 
abstract), suggesting similarity in abilities between autistic and non-autistic 
individuals, with abstract spatial reasoning as an autistic strength.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0059329
PMCID: PMC3606476
PMID: 23533615 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


515. Dev Med Child Neurol. 2013 Jul;55(7):661-7. doi: 10.1111/dmcn.12143. Epub 2013 
Mar 27.

Adaptive behavior and later school achievement in children with early-onset 
epilepsy.

Berg AT(1), Caplan R, Baca CB, Vickrey BG.

Author information:
(1)Epilepsy Center, Ann and Robert H Lurie Children's Hospital of Chicago, 
Chicago, IL, USA.

Comment in
    Dev Med Child Neurol. 2013 Jul;55(7):591-2.
    Dev Med Child Neurol. 2013 Oct;55(10):963-4.
    Dev Med Child Neurol. 2013 Oct;55(10):964-5.

AIM: To determine whether early measures of adaptive behavior are predictive of 
later school difficulties and achievement in otherwise neurotypical (unimpaired) 
children with onset of epilepsy during the preschool years.
METHOD: In a prospective cohort study, parents completed the Vineland Adaptive 
Behavior Scales (VABS) for children who were aged 5 years or less at epilepsy 
diagnosis. Eight to 9 years later, the children were assessed using the Wechsler 
Intelligence Scales for Children (WISC), the Wide Range Achievement Test (WRAT), 
and the Child Behavior Checklist (CBCL). Associations of VABS scores with later 
WRAT and CBCL scores were tested.
RESULTS: A total of 108 neurotypical children (64 males, 44 females; mean age at 
testing 11 y 11 mo, SD 2 y) were studied. After adjustment for IQ and other 
factors, there was an increase of 0.15 points (95% confidence interval [CI] 
0.03-0.27 points; p=0.03) and 0.14 points (95% CI 0.0-0.28 points; p=0.05) in 
WRAT reading and spelling scores for each 1-point increment in the VABS 
communication score. Corresponding numbers for the VABS socialization score were 
0.20 (95% CI 0.08-0.32; p=0.005) and 0.17 (95% CI 0.05-0.29; p=0.005).
CONCLUSION: In neurotypical preschool children with epilepsy, early social and 
communication scores predict later school performance. These findings raise 
questions about opportunities for early identification and intervention for 
children at greatest risk.

© 2013 Mac Keith Press.

DOI: 10.1111/dmcn.12143
PMCID: PMC3676436
PMID: 23534842 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


516. Hum Reprod. 2013 Jun;28(6):1508-18. doi: 10.1093/humrep/det073. Epub 2013 Mar 
27.

The effect of preimplantation genetic screening on neurological, cognitive and 
behavioural development in 4-year-old children: follow-up of a RCT.

Schendelaar P(1), Middelburg KJ, Bos AF, Heineman MJ, Kok JH, La Bastide-Van 
Gemert S, Seggers J, Van den Heuvel ER, Hadders-Algra M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics, Division of Developmental Neurology-CA 85, 
University Medical Center Groningen, Hanzeplein 1, 9713 GZ Groningen, The 
Netherlands.

STUDY QUESTION: Does embryo biopsy inherent to preimplantation genetic screening 
(PGS) affect neurological, cognitive and behavioural development of 4-year-old 
children?
SUMMARY ANSWER: PGS does not seem to affect neurological, cognitive and 
behavioural development of 4-year-old singletons; however, our data suggest that 
it may be associated with altered neurodevelopment in twins.
WHAT IS KNOWN ALREADY: Evidence concerning the safety of PGS on 
neurodevelopmental outcome in offspring is scarce. The present study provides 
information on neurodevelopmental, cognitive and behavioural outcome of 
4-year-old PGS offspring.
STUDY DESIGN, SIZE, DURATION: A prospective, assessor-blinded follow-up study of 
children born to women who participated in a multi-centre RCT on the effect of 
IVF with or without PGS.
PARTICIPANTS/MATERIALS, SETTING, METHODS: At 4 years, 49 children (31 
singletons, 9 sets of twins) born following IVF with PGS and 64 children (42 
singletons, 11 sets of twins) born following IVF without PGS (controls) were 
assessed (post-natal attrition 18%). Neurological development was evaluated with 
the standardized, age-specific and sensitive neurological examination according 
to Hempel, resulting in a neurological optimality score (NOS), a fluency score 
and the rate of adverse neurological outcome. Primary outcome was the fluency 
score, as fluency of movements is easily reduced by subtle dysfunction of the 
brain. Cognitive development was evaluated with the Kaufman Assessment Battery 
for Children; behavioural development was evaluated with the Child Behavior 
Checklist. The effect of PGS was analysed with a mixed effects model.
MAIN RESULTS AND THE ROLE OF CHANCE: Based on the intention to treat analysis, 
neurodevelopmental outcome of PGS children was similar to that of controls. 
However, additional analyses indicated that PGS affected neurodevelopmental 
outcome of twins in a different way than that of singletons. The fluency score 
of singletons born following PGS was similar to that of control singletons [mean 
values, 95% confidence intervals (CIs): 12.2 (11.5;12.8) and 12.2 (11.6;12.8)], 
respectively, P = 0.977) that was also true for the other neurodevelopmental 
parameters. The fluency score of PGS twins was significantly lower than that of 
control twins [mean values, 95% CIs: 10.6 (9.8;11.3) and 12.3 (11.5;13.1)], 
respectively, P = 0.001); the same was true for the NOS. In addition, PGS in 
twins was associated with a higher sequential intelligence quotient score. On 
the other hand, other neurodevelopmental parameters were similar for PGS twins 
and control twins. Post hoc sample size calculation for the primary outcome 
parameter, the fluency score, indicated that the study groups, including the 
subgroups of singletons and twins, were adequately powered.
LIMITATIONS, REASONS FOR CAUTION: We assessed singletons and twins who 
contributed to the generalizability of the study. A limitation of our study is 
the relative small size of our study groups and the selective dropout in both 
groups (dropouts PGS group: higher gestational age; control group: less 
well-educated parents). These preclude the conclusion that PGS per se is not 
associated with neurodevelopmental, cognitive and behavioural problems in 
singletons and the conclusion that PGS is associated with altered 
neurodevelopmental outcome in twins.
WIDER IMPLICATIONS OF THE FINDINGS: The need for careful long-term monitoring of 
children born following embryo biopsy remains, as it is still applied in the 
form of PGD and it is still unknown whether embryo biopsy affects long-term 
neurodevelopmental outcome.

DOI: 10.1093/humrep/det073
PMID: 23535872 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


517. J Pers Assess. 2013;95(5):486-94. doi: 10.1080/00223891.2013.778272. Epub 2013 
Mar 28.

Construct validity of the Italian version of the Mayer-Salovey-Caruso Emotional 
Intelligence Test (MSCEIT) v2.0.

Curci A(1), Lanciano T, Soleti E, Zammuner VL, Salovey P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Education, Psychology, Communication, University of Bari A. 
Moro, Italy. antonietta.curci@uniba.it

In 2 studies, we assessed the construct validity of the Italian version of the 
Mayer-Salovey-Caruso Emotional Intelligence Test (MSCEIT) version 2.0. In Study 
1, we administered the MSCEIT together with measures of crystallized and fluid 
intelligence, personality, and affect. In Study 2, we administered the MSCEIT 
together with indexes of dispositional coping, emotion regulation strategies, 
alexithymia, state-trait anxiety, depression, and depressive rumination. We 
evaluated the factorial structure of the MSCEIT with a confirmatory factor 
analysis model using data combined from Study 1 and 2. The results confirm that 
the MSCEIT Italian version satisfactorily discriminates emotional intelligence 
ability from crystallized and fluid intelligence, personality, and affect, and 
exhibits significant correlations with various psychological well-being 
criteria. Furthermore, data from both studies confirm that the factorial 
structure of MSCEIT is consistent with the theory on which it is based, although 
it was difficult to rule out alternative structures.

DOI: 10.1080/00223891.2013.778272
PMID: 23536991 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


518. BMC Med Educ. 2013 Mar 27;13:44. doi: 10.1186/1472-6920-13-44.

Emotional intelligence and academic performance in first and final year medical 
students: a cross-sectional study.

Chew BH(1), Zain AM, Hassan F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Medicine, Faculty of Medicine & Health Sciences, 
Universiti Putra Malaysia, 43400 Serdang, Selangor, Malaysia. 
chewboonhow@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND: Research on emotional intelligence (EI) suggests that it is 
associated with more pro-social behavior, better academic performance and 
improved empathy towards patients. In medical education and clinical practice, 
EI has been related to higher academic achievement and improved doctor-patient 
relationships. This study examined the effect of EI on academic performance in 
first- and final-year medical students in Malaysia.
METHODS: This was a cross-sectional study using an objectively-scored measure of 
EI, the Mayer-Salovey-Caruso Emotional Intelligence Test (MSCEIT). Academic 
performance of medical school students was measured using continuous assessment 
(CA) and final examination (FE) results. The first- and final-year students were 
invited to participate during their second semester. Students answered a 
paper-based demographic questionnaire and completed the online MSCEIT on their 
own. Relationships between the total MSCEIT score to academic performance were 
examined using multivariate analyses.
RESULTS: A total of 163 (84 year one and 79 year five) medical students 
participated (response rate of 66.0%). The gender and ethnic distribution were 
representative of the student population. The total EI score was a predictor of 
good overall CA (OR 1.01), a negative predictor of poor result in overall CA (OR 
0.97), a predictor of the good overall FE result (OR 1.07) and was significantly 
related to the final-year FE marks (adjusted R(2) = 0.43).
CONCLUSIONS: Medical students who were more emotionally intelligent performed 
better in both the continuous assessments and the final professional 
examination. Therefore, it is possible that emotional skill development may 
enhance medical students' academic performance.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6920-13-44
PMCID: PMC3617036
PMID: 23537129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


519. Intellect Dev Disabil. 2013 Apr;51(2):117-21. doi: 10.1352/1934-9556-51.2.117.

Definition of intellectual disability in criminal court cases.

Olley JG(1).

Author information:
(1)Carolina Institute for Developmental Disabilities, University of North 
Carolina at Chapel Hill, NC 27599-7255, USA. greg.olley@cidd.unc.edu

Definitions and associated descriptions of the condition now commonly known as 
intellectual disability serve many functions. The Atkins v. Virginia U.S. 
Supreme Court decision (2002) has called attention to the importance of clear, 
objective, and measureable wording of the definition. This article discusses the 
potential for misunderstanding and misinterpretation of such words as ability 
and cognitive, the importance of clarifying the role of measurement error and 
sociocultural factors, and the noncausal relationship between impairment in 
intelligence and adaptive behavior.

DOI: 10.1352/1934-9556-51.2.117
PMID: 23537359 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


520. Cogn Behav Neurol. 2013 Mar;26(1):14-22. doi: 10.1097/WNN.0b013e31828b9f11.

Executive function in nephropathic cystinosis.

Ballantyne AO(1), Spilkin AM, Trauner DA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosciences, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, 
CA 92093-0935, USA. aballantyne@ucsd.edu

OBJECTIVE: We studied executive function (EF) in children and adolescents with 
cystinosis.
BACKGROUND: Cystinosis is a genetic metabolic disorder in which the amino acid 
cystine accumulates in all organs of the body, including the brain. Previous 
research has shown that individuals with cystinosis have visuospatial deficits, 
but normal intelligence and intact verbal abilities. Better understanding of the 
behavioral phenotype associated with cystinosis could have important 
implications for treatment.
METHODS: Twenty-eight children with cystinosis and 24 control participants (age 
range 8 to 17 years) underwent selected Delis-Kaplan executive function system 
tests for neuropsychological assessment of EF, and the participants' parents 
completed the behavior rating inventory of executive function.
RESULTS: Participants with cystinosis performed significantly more poorly than 
controls on all Delis-Kaplan Executive Function System indices examined and on 
the behavior rating inventory of executive function metacognition index and 
global executive composite.
CONCLUSIONS: EF is an area of potential risk in cystinosis. Our data have 
implications not only for the function of affected children and adolescents in 
school and daily life, but also for disease management and treatment adherence. 
Our findings can aid in the design and implementation of interventions and lead 
to a greater understanding of brain-behavior relationships in cystinosis.

DOI: 10.1097/WNN.0b013e31828b9f11
PMCID: PMC3622457
PMID: 23538568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


521. World J Gastroenterol. 2013 Mar 14;19(10):1611-7. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v19.i10.1611.

Cognitive functioning and depressive symptoms in adolescents with inflammatory 
bowel disease.

Castaneda AE(1), Tuulio-Henriksson A, Aronen ET, Marttunen M, Kolho KL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Mental Health and Substance Abuse Services, National Institute 
for Health and Welfare, 00271 Helsinki, Finland. anu.castaneda@thl.fi

AIM: To investigate cognitive functioning and depressive symptoms in adolescents 
with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD).
METHODS: A neuropsychological test battery, including subtests of the Wechsler 
Adult Intelligence Scale-Revised and III, Wechsler Memory Scale-Revised, 
California Verbal Learning Test (CVLT), Stroop Color-Word Test, and Trail Making 
Test, which assessed verbal and visual short- and long-term memory, processing 
speed, logical reasoning, verbal intelligence, attention, and executive 
functioning, was administered to 13- to 19-year-old patients with IBD (n = 34; 
active disease n = 20). Depressive symptoms were measured with the Beck 
Depression Inventory. The findings were compared with peers with non-acute 
juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA; n = 23). Patients with coexisting 
psychiatric disorders were excluded.
RESULTS: The IBD group, especially patients in the acute phase, made more 
perseverative errors in the CVLT test that assessed verbal memory than the JIA 
group (6.0 ± 4.3 vs 3.3 ± 2.9, P < 0.01), but no other differences between the 
IBD and JIA groups were observed in the neuropsychological tests. The difference 
was close to statistical significance, even when glucocorticoid medication was 
controlled for (P < 0.052). The IBD group had more depressive symptoms than the 
JIA group (7.9 ± 7.6 vs 4.0 ± 4.0, P < 0.05). Approximately one third of the IBD 
group had at least mild depressive symptoms, and those with acute illness had 
the highest scores. However, depressive symptoms were not related to the 
difference in the verbal memory test (perseverative errors in the CVLT) between 
the IBD and JIA groups.
CONCLUSION: Adolescents with acute IBD may have mild verbal memory problems but 
no major cognitive deficits compared to peers with JIA.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v19.i10.1611
PMCID: PMC3602478
PMID: 23538788 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


522. Pers Individ Dif. 2013 Mar 1;54(4):542-544. doi: 10.1016/j.paid.2012.09.002. 
Epub 2012 Nov 22.

Mapping the protective pathway of emotional intelligence in youth: From social 
cognition to smoking intentions.

Duncan LR(1), Bertoli MC, Latimer-Cheung AE, Rivers SE, Brackett MA, Salovey P.

Author information:
(1)Health, Emotion, and Behavior Laboratory, Department of Psychology, Yale 
University, P.O. Box 208205, New Haven, CT 06520-8205, United States.

The purpose of this study was to test perceptions of the social consequences of 
smoking as a mediator of the relationship between emotional intelligence (EI) 
and intentions to smoke cigarettes among youth. Upper elementary school students 
(N = 255, Mage = 10.9 years, 49% male) completed measures of EI, verbal 
intelligence, smoking-related intentions, past behavior, and perceived social 
consequences. Mediation was tested using the Sobel test. Perceived social 
consequences was a marginally significant mediator of the impact of total EI on 
intentions to smoke (Z = 1.91, p = .057). Follow-up analyses showed that 
perceived social consequences significantly mediated the effect of 2 EI 
abilities on smoking intentions: using emotions (Z = 2.02, p = .043) and 
managing emotions (Z = 2.28, p = .023). The results indicate that the role of 
higher EI in deterring smoking among youth may be related to social processing 
ability (i.e., greater perceptions of the negative social consequences of 
smoking). These findings contribute to a growing body of research demonstrating 
that EI may reduce cigarette smoking among youth by influencing their social 
perceptions.

DOI: 10.1016/j.paid.2012.09.002
PMCID: PMC3607544
PMID: 23539325


523. Int J Offender Ther Comp Criminol. 2014 May;58(5):607-31. doi: 
10.1177/0306624X13482882. Epub 2013 Mar 27.

The relationship between academic achievement and likelihood of police arrest 
among delinquents.

Yun I(1), Cheong J, Walsh A.

Author information:
(1)Chosun University, Gwangju, South Korea.

Drawing upon a recent study on the association between low self-control and 
differential responses from the criminal justice system, this study examined 
whether academic performance, a construct linked to self-control, was also 
associated with the probability of police arrest. The result indicated that 
academic performance did have a statistically significant inverse association 
with the likelihood of police arrest, net of low self-control and delinquency.

DOI: 10.1177/0306624X13482882
PMID: 23539519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


524. Arch Gerontol Geriatr. 2013 Jul-Aug;57(1):100-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.archger.2013.02.010. Epub 2013 Mar 27.

The effect of age on fluid intelligence is fully mediated by physical health.

Bergman I(1), Almkvist O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and Society, Division of Clinical 
Geriatrics, Karolinska Institutet, Karolinska University Hospital, Huddinge, 
Sweden. ingvar.bergman@karolinska.se

The present study investigated the extent to which the effect of age on 
cognitive ability is predicted by individual differences in physical health. The 
sample consisted of 118 volunteer subjects who were healthy and ranging in age 
from 26 to 91. The examinations included a clinical investigation, magnetic 
resonance imaging (MRI) brain neuroimaging, and a comprehensive 
neuropsychological assessment. The effect of age on fluid IQ with and without 
visual spatial praxis and on crystallized IQ was tested whether being fully-, 
partially- or non-mediated by physical health. Structural equation analyses 
showed that the best and most parsimonious fit to the data was provided by 
models that were fully mediated for fluid IQ without praxis, non-mediated for 
crystallized IQ and partially mediated for fluid IQ with praxis. The diseases of 
the circulatory and nervous systems were the major mediators. It was concluded 
from the pattern of findings that the effect of age on fluid intelligence is 
fully mediated by physical health, while crystallized intelligence is 
non-mediated and visual spatial praxis is partially mediated, influenced mainly 
by direct effects of age. Our findings imply that improving health by acting 
against the common age-related circulatory- and nervous system diseases and risk 
factors will oppose the decline in fluid intelligence with age.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.archger.2013.02.010
PMID: 23540273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


525. Psychol Assess. 2013 Jun;25(2):618-630. doi: 10.1037/a0032086. Epub 2013 Apr 1.

Structural and incremental validity of the Wechsler Adult Intelligence 
Scale-Fourth Edition with a clinical sample.

Nelson JM(1), Canivez GL(2), Watkins MW(3).

Author information:
(1)Regents' Center for Learning Disorders.
(2)Department of Psychology, Eastern Illinois University.
(3)Department of Educational Psychology, Baylor University.

Structural and incremental validity of the Wechsler Adult Intelligence 
Scale-Fourth Edition (WAIS-IV; Wechsler, 2008a) was examined with a sample of 
300 individuals referred for evaluation at a university-based clinic. 
Confirmatory factor analysis indicated that the WAIS-IV structure was best 
represented by 4 first-order factors as well as a general intelligence factor in 
a direct hierarchical model. The general intelligence factor accounted for the 
most common and total variance among the subtests. Incremental validity analyses 
indicated that the Full Scale IQ (FSIQ) generally accounted for medium to large 
portions of academic achievement variance. For all measures of academic 
achievement, the first-order factors combined accounted for significant 
achievement variance beyond that accounted for by the FSIQ, but individual 
factor index scores contributed trivial amounts of achievement variance. 
Implications for interpreting WAIS-IV results are discussed.

(PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2013 APA, all rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/a0032086
PMID: 23544395 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


526. Psychol Assess. 2013 Sep;25(3):692-705. doi: 10.1037/a0032298. Epub 2013 Apr 1.

An independent confirmatory factor analysis of the Wechsler Intelligence Scale 
for Children-fourth Edition (WISC-IV) integrated: what do the process approach 
subtests measure?

Benson N(1), Hulac DM, Bernstein JD.

Author information:
(1)Division of Counseling and Psychology in Education.

The Wechsler intelligence scale for children--fourth edition (WISC-IV) 
Integrated contains the WISC-IV core and supplemental subtests along with 
process approach subtests designed to facilitate a process-oriented approach to 
score interpretation. The purpose of this study was to examine the extent to 
which WISC-IV Integrated subtests measure the constructs they are purported to 
measure. In addition to examining the measurement and scoring model provided in 
the manual, this study also tested hypotheses regarding Cattell-Horn-Carroll 
abilities that might be measured along with other substantive questions 
regarding the factor structure of the WISC-IV Integrated and the nature of 
abilities measured by process approach subtests. Results provide insight 
regarding the constructs measured by these subtests. Many subtests appear to be 
good to excellent measures of psychometric g (i.e., the general factor presumed 
to cause the positive correlation of mental tasks). Other abilities measured by 
subtests are described. For some subtests, the majority of variance is not 
accounted for by theoretical constructs included in the scoring model. 
Modifications made to remove demands such as memory recall and verbal expression 
were found to reduce construct-irrelevant variance. The WISC-IV Integrated 
subtests appear to measure similar constructs across ages 6-16, although strict 
factorial invariance was not supported.

DOI: 10.1037/a0032298
PMID: 23544403 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


527. Expert Rev Neurother. 2013 Apr;13(4):425-33. doi: 10.1586/ern.13.31.

Individual treatment response in attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder: 
broadening perspectives and improving assessments.

Hodgkins P(1), Dittmann RW, Sorooshian S, Banaschewski T.

Author information:
(1)Global Health Economics and Outcomes Research, Shire Development, LLC, 725 
Chesterbrook Boulevard, Wayne, PA 19087, USA. phodgkins@shire.com.

Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a highly complex disorder 
with multiple treatment options. Impairments associated with ADHD, rather than 
symptoms defining the disorder, are the primary reason for referral of 
individuals to clinical services; consequently, they should also be key targets 
for intervention. Impairments are moderated by factors such as comorbidities, 
family environment and intelligence quotient, and particular challenges may vary 
between patients. The understanding of patient and family treatment preferences, 
as well as identification of treatment needs and goals, should drive future 
clinical practice. This review addresses the assessment of ADHD treatment goals 
and outcomes in clinical practice, and discusses changes in future clinical 
research studies necessary to progress the utilization of an individualized 
medicine approach in ADHD.

DOI: 10.1586/ern.13.31
PMID: 23545056 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


528. Epidemiol Psychiatr Sci. 2014 Mar;23(1):85-97. doi: 10.1017/S2045796013000140. 
Epub 2013 Apr 2.

Executive functioning and psychopathological profile in relatives of individuals 
with deficit v. non-deficit schizophrenia: a pilot study.

Scala S(1), Lasalvia A(1), Seidman LJ(2), Cristofalo D(1), Bonetto C(1), Ruggeri 
M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Community Medicine, Section of Psychiatry, 
University of Verona, Verona, Italy.
(2)Harvard Medical School, Department of Psychiatry, Massachusetts Mental Health 
Center Division of Public Psychiatry, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, 
Boston, MA, USA.

Aims. Heterogeneity of schizophrenia is known to be reflected in 
neuropsychological functioning of patients, but its expression in relatives is 
understudied. This study aims at exploring relationship between executive 
functioning and clinical profiles of first-degree relatives of patients who are 
classified as having or not having the deficit subtype of schizophrenia (DSRELs 
v. non-DSRELs), with the prediction of greater executive impairment in DSRELs. 
Methods. DSRELs (n = 15) and non-DSRELs (n = 40) were compared with community 
controls (CCs, n = 55) on executive functioning measured by the Wisconsin Card 
Sorting Test (WCST) and the phonemic verbal fluency (PVF), and clinical 
measures. Effects of psychopathology and intelligence quotient (IQ) measures 
were investigated to determine their association with executive performance. 
Results. DSRELs showed more executive dysfunction on WCST and poorer social 
functioning than CCs and more severe negative symptoms than non-DSRELs. 
Differences on WCST-categories achieved (WCST-CA) remained significant after 
adjustment for clinical confounders and IQ. WCST-CA was associated with apathy 
and paranoid ideation only within the DSREL subgroup. Conclusions. Executive 
functioning and negative symptoms are severely impaired in first-degree 
relatives of deficit syndrome patients, thus suggesting that some neurocognitive 
deficits in patients may be transmitted within families according to the 
pathophysiology of the probands.

DOI: 10.1017/S2045796013000140
PMCID: PMC6998377
PMID: 23545096


529. Clin EEG Neurosci. 2013 Apr;44(2):144-9. doi: 10.1177/1550059412463658. Epub 
2013 Mar 31.

Ambient intelligence for monitoring and research in clinical neurophysiology and 
medicine: the MIMERICA* project and prototype.

Pignolo L(1), Riganello F, Dolce G, Sannita WG.

Author information:
(1)S. Anna Institute and RAN, Research in Advanced Neurorehabilitation, Crotone, 
Italy.

Ambient Intelligence (AmI) provides extended but unobtrusive sensing and 
computing devices and ubiquitous networking for human/environment interaction. 
It is a new paradigm in information technology compliant with the international 
Integrating Healthcare Enterprise board (IHE) and eHealth HL7 technological 
standards in the functional integration of biomedical domotics and informatics 
in hospital and home care. AmI allows real-time automatic recording of 
biological/medical information and environmental data. It is extensively 
applicable to patient monitoring, medicine and neuroscience research, which 
require large biomedical data sets; for example, in the study of spontaneous or 
condition-dependent variability or chronobiology. In this respect, AML is 
equivalent to a traditional laboratory for data collection and processing, with 
minimal dedicated equipment, staff, and costs; it benefits from the integration 
of artificial intelligence technology with traditional/innovative sensors to 
monitor clinical or functional parameters. A prototype AmI platform (MIMERICA*) 
has been implemented and is operated in a semi-intensive unit for the vegetative 
and minimally conscious states, to investigate the spontaneous or 
environment-related fluctuations of physiological parameters in these 
conditions.

DOI: 10.1177/1550059412463658
PMID: 23545248 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


530. Encephale. 2013 Sep;39(4):252-7. doi: 10.1016/j.encep.2013.02.002. Epub 2013 Mar 
29.

[Nanopsychiatry. The potential role of nanotechnologies in the future of 
psychiatry. A systematic review].

[Article in French]

Fond G(1), Miot S.

Author information:
(1)Service universitaire de psychiatrie adulte, hôpital La Colombière, hôpitaux 
université Montpellier 1, Inserm U1061, CHU de Montpellier, 39, avenue 
Charles-Flahault, 34295 Montpellier cedex 05, France; Institut national de santé 
et de recherche médicale, Inserm U1061, 34093 Montpellier, France; Service 
universitaire de psychiatrie adulte, hôpital La Colombière, CHRU de Montpellier, 
34000 Montpellier, France. Electronic address: guillaume.fond@gmail.com.

INTRODUCTION: Nanomedicine is defined as the area using nanotechnology's 
concepts for the benefit of human beings, their health and well being. The field 
of nanotechnology opened new unsuspected fields of research a few years ago.
AIM OF THE STUDY: To provide an overview of nanotechnology application areas 
that could affect care for psychiatric illnesses.
METHODS: We conducted a systematic review using the PRISMA criteria (preferred 
reporting items for systematic reviews and meta-analysis). Inclusion criteria 
were specified in advance: all studies describing the development of 
nanotechnology in psychiatry. The research paradigm was: "(nanotechnology OR 
nanoparticles OR nanomedicine) AND (central nervous system)" Articles were 
identified in three research bases, Medline (1966-present), Web of Science 
(1975-present) and Cochrane (all articles). The last search was carried out on 
April 2, 2012. Seventy-six items were included in this qualitative review.
RESULTS: The main applications of nanotechnology in psychiatry are (i) 
pharmacology. There are two main difficulties in neuropharmacology. Drugs have 
to pass the blood brain barrier and then to be internalized by targeted cells. 
Nanoparticles could increase drugs' bioavailability and pharmacokinetics, 
especially improving safety and efficacy of psychotropic drugs. Liposomes, 
nanosomes, nanoparticle polymers, nanobubbles are some examples of this targeted 
drug delivery. Nanotechnologies could also add new pharmacological properties, 
like nanohells and dendrimers; (ii) living analysis. Nanotechnology provides 
technical assistance to in vivo imaging or metabolome analysis; (iii) central 
nervous system modeling. Research teams have modelized inorganic synapses and 
mimicked synaptic behavior, essential for further creation of artificial neural 
systems. Some nanoparticle assemblies present the same small world and 
free-scale network architecture as cortical neural networks. Nanotechnologies 
and quantum physics could be used to create models of artificial intelligence 
and mental illnesses.
DISCUSSION: Even if nanotechnologies are promising, their safety is still tricky 
and this must be kept in mind.
CONCLUSION: We are not about to see a concrete application of nanomedicine in 
daily psychiatric practice. However, it seems essential that psychiatrists do 
not forsake this area of research the perspectives of which could be decisive in 
the field of mental illness.

Copyright © 2013 L’Encéphale, Paris. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.encep.2013.02.002
PMID: 23545476 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


531. Neurosciences (Riyadh). 2013 Apr;18(2):117-21.

Idiopathic (primary) generalized epilepsy. Traditional versus new antiepileptic 
drugs.

Yadegari S(1), Bahrami P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. 
yadegarisamira@yahoo.com

Idiopathic generalized epilepsies (IGE) are genetic based seizures with normal 
neurologic exam, intelligence, and imaging studies. Based on the age of onset 
and prominent seizure type, different syndromes were identified. The purpose of 
this study is to summarize the characteristics, prognosis, and choices of 
antiepileptic drugs (AED) in common syndromes of IGE. In addition, we review the 
updated role of new AEDs in specific syndromes of IGE. The first choice AED is 
usually valproate. Most drug trials on the effects of new AEDs compared them 
with placebo and not valproate. However, some of the broad spectrum new AEDs may 
be considered as the first choice in specific conditions. In true refractory 
patients, combination therapy and vagal nerve stimulation could be the next 
option. In the proper management of IGE, neurologists should consider the 
predominant seizure type, patient gender, co-morbidities, and antiepileptic 
drugs that may aggravate a specific seizure type.

PMID: 23545607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


532. Genet Mol Res. 2013 Mar 13;12(4):4243-50. doi: 10.4238/2013.March.13.13.

Effect of chromosome constitution variations on the expression of Turner 
phenotype.

Bispo AV(1), Dos Santos LO, Burégio-Frota P, Galdino MB, Duarte AR, Leal GF, 
Araújo J, Gomes B, Soares-Ventura EM, Muniz MT, Santos N.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Genética, Centro de Ciências Biológicas, Universidade Federal 
de Pernambuco, Recife, PE, Brasil.

Turner syndrome (TS) is a chronic disease related to haploinsufficiency of genes 
that are normally expressed in both X chromosomes in patients with female 
phenotype that is associated with a wide range of somatic malformations. We made 
detailed cytogenetic and clinical analysis of 65 patients with TS from the 
region of Recife, Brazil, to determine the effects of different chromosome 
constitutions on expression of the TS phenotype. Overall, patients with 
X-monosomy exhibited a tendency to have more severe phenotypes with higher 
morbidity, showing its importance in TS prognosis. Additionally, we found rare 
genetic and phenotypic abnormalities associated with this syndrome. To the best 
of our knowledge, this is the first case of 45,X,t(11;12)(q22;q22) described as 
a TS karyotype. Turner patients usually have normal intelligence; however, 
moderate to severe levels of mental retardation were found in 5 TS cases, which 
is considerate a very uncommon feature in this syndrome.

DOI: 10.4238/2013.March.13.13
PMID: 23546984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


533. Curr Top Med Chem. 2013;13(5):576-90. doi: 10.2174/1568026611313050003.

Ontologies in medicinal chemistry: current status and future challenges.

Gómez-Pérez A(1), Martínez-Romero M, Rodríguez-González A, Vázquez G, 
Vázquez-Naya JM.

Author information:
(1)Artificial Intelligence Department, Computer Science Faculty, Polytechnic 
University of Madrid, 28660 Boadilla del Monte, Madrid, Spain.

Recent years have seen a dramatic increase in the amount and availability of 
data in the diverse areas of medicinal chemistry, making it possible to achieve 
significant advances in fields such as the design, synthesis and biological 
evaluation of compounds. However, with this data explosion, the storage, 
management and analysis of available data to extract relevant information has 
become even a more complex task that offers challenging research issues to 
Artificial Intelligence (AI) scientists. Ontologies have emerged in AI as a key 
tool to formally represent and semantically organize aspects of the real world. 
Beyond glossaries or thesauri, ontologies facilitate communication between 
experts and allow the application of computational techniques to extract useful 
information from available data. In medicinal chemistry, multiple ontologies 
have been developed during the last years which contain knowledge about chemical 
compounds and processes of synthesis of pharmaceutical products. This article 
reviews the principal standards and ontologies in medicinal chemistry, analyzes 
their main applications and suggests future directions.

DOI: 10.2174/1568026611313050003
PMID: 23548021 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


534. Curr Top Med Chem. 2013;13(5):619-41. doi: 10.2174/1568026611313050006.

MIANN models in medicinal, physical and organic chemistry.

González-Díaz H(1), Arrasate S, Sotomayor N, Lete E, Munteanu CR, Pazos A, 
Besada-Porto L, Ruso JM.

Author information:
(1)IKERBASQUE, Basque Foundation for Science, 48011, Bilbao, Spain. 
gonzalezdiazh@gmail.com

Reducing costs in terms of time, animal sacrifice, and material resources with 
computational methods has become a promising goal in Medicinal, Biological, 
Physical and Organic Chemistry. There are many computational techniques that can 
be used in this sense. In any case, almost all these methods focus on few 
fundamental aspects including: type (1) methods to quantify the molecular 
structure, type (2) methods to link the structure with the biological activity, 
and others. In particular, MARCH-INSIDE (MI), acronym for Markov Chain 
Invariants for Networks Simulation and Design, is a well-known method for QSAR 
analysis useful in step (1). In addition, the bio-inspired 
Artificial-Intelligence (AI) algorithms called Artificial Neural Networks (ANNs) 
are among the most powerful type (2) methods. We can combine MI with ANNs in 
order to seek QSAR models, a strategy which is called herein MIANN (MI & ANN 
models). One of the first applications of the MIANN strategy was in the 
development of new QSAR models for drug discovery. MIANN strategy has been 
expanded to the QSAR study of proteins, protein-drug interactions, and 
protein-protein interaction networks. In this paper, we review for the first 
time many interesting aspects of the MIANN strategy including theoretical basis, 
implementation in web servers, and examples of applications in Medicinal and 
Biological chemistry. We also report new applications of the MIANN strategy in 
Medicinal chemistry and the first examples in Physical and Organic Chemistry, as 
well. In so doing, we developed new MIANN models for several self-assembly 
physicochemical properties of surfactants and large reaction networks in organic 
synthesis. In some of the new examples we also present experimental results 
which were not published up to date.

DOI: 10.2174/1568026611313050006
PMID: 23548024 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


535. Community Dent Health. 2013 Mar;30(1):6-9.

Challenges encountered when conducting a dental health needs assessment of older 
people resident in care homes: experience from England.

Shah KK(1), Tabari ED.

Author information:
(1)Tees Public Health, Redheugh House, Teesdale South, Thomaby. 
kamini.shah@tees.nhs.uk

This paper describes the process of undertaking a dental health needs assessment 
of older people resident in care homes in the North East of England and the 
challenges involved. It illustrates many competency areas of interest to dental 
public health practitioners: oral health surveillance, dental public health 
intelligence and collaborative working.

PMID: 23550499 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


536. Psychogeriatrics. 2013 Mar;13(1):9-16. doi: 10.1111/j.1479-8301.2012.00408.x.

Intelligence or years of education: which is better correlated with memory 
function in normal elderly Japanese subjects?

Murayama N(1), Iseki E, Tagaya H, Ota K, Kasanuki K, Fujishiro H, Arai H, Sato 
K.

Author information:
(1)PET/CT Dementia Research Center, Juntendo Tokyo Koto Geriatric Medical 
Center, Juntendo University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan. 
n-mura@kitasato-u.ac.jp

BACKGROUND: We compared differences in intelligence and memory function between 
normal elderly Japanese subjects with more years of education and those with 
fewer years of education. We also investigated clinical and neuropsychological 
factors that are strongly correlated with memory function.
METHODS: There were 118 normal elderly subjects who underwent the Mini-Mental 
State Examination, Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale, 3rd edition (WAIS-III), 
and Wechsler Memory Scale Revised. Subjects with at least 13 years of education 
were categorized as the H group, and those with 12 years of education or less 
were categorized as the L group.
RESULTS: Age and Mini-Mental State Examination scores were not significantly 
different between the two groups. On the WAIS-III, there were significant 
differences between the two groups in Verbal IQ and Full Scale IQ. On the 
Wechsler Memory Scale Revised, there were significant differences between the 
two groups in Visual Memory, General Memory, and Delayed Recall. Correlation 
coefficients between memory function and the other factors demonstrated 
significant but weak correlations between years of education and General Memory 
(R = 0.22) and between years of education and Delayed Recall (R = 0.20). Strong 
correlations were found between Verbal IQ and Verbal Memory (R = 0.45), between 
Verbal IQ and General Memory (R = 0.49), between Full Scale IQ and General 
Memory (R = 0.50) and between Full Scale IQ and Delayed Recall (R = 0.48).
CONCLUSIONS: In normal elderly Japanese subjects, years of education weakly 
correlated with memory function while Verbal IQ, Full Scale IQ and Verbal 
Comprehension on WAIS-III had stronger correlations with memory function. Verbal 
IQ and Verbal Comprehension on WAIS-III were found to be insusceptible to the 
cognitive decline characteristic of Alzheimer's disease or amnestic mild 
cognitive impairment. Therefore, verbal intelligence, as measured by Verbal IQ 
and Verbal Comprehension, may be the most useful factor for inferring premorbid 
memory function in Alzheimer's disease or amnestic mild cognitive impairment 
patients.

© 2013 The Authors. Psychogeriatrics © 2013 Japanese Psychogeriatric Society.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1479-8301.2012.00408.x
PMID: 23551406 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


537. Psychol Med. 2014 Jan;44(1):111-6. doi: 10.1017/S0033291713000615. Epub 2013 Apr 
3.

Intelligence and psychopathy: a correlational study on insane female offenders.

Spironelli C(1), Segrè D, Stegagno L, Angrilli A.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Psychology, University of Padova, Italy.

BACKGROUND: The occurrence of a significant relationship between psychopathic 
traits and intelligence is still open to debate. Most of the relevant 
information has been obtained from crystallized IQ tests or on psychopathic male 
offenders. In this study we hypothesized a negative correlation between 
psychopathic traits and fluid intelligence on a sample of criminal female 
in-patients.
METHOD: We carried out a correlational study on a selected sample of 56 criminal 
female offenders. Variables that were measured include the Hare Psychopathy 
Checklist Revised (PCL-R) total score (and, separately, the scores from its four 
subscales: Interpersonal, Affective, Lifestyle and Antisocial) and fluid IQ 
measured by Raven's Progressive Matrices (RPM).
RESULTS: Pearson's correlation between RPM IQ and total PCL-R score was negative 
(r(54) = -0.55, p < 0.001); women with greater psychopathy traits (total PCL-R 
score) had lower IQ scores. Negative correlations were also found between IQ and 
the four PCL-R subscales, Interpersonal, Affective, Lifestyle and Antisocial 
(r(54) = -0.35, p < 0.01, r(54) = -0.52, p < 0.001, r(54) = -0.53, p < 0.001, 
and r(54) = -0.49, p < 0.001 respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: The results indicate a general negative relationship between PCL-R 
and IQ, equally distributed across the four subcomponents of the psychopathic 
trait, and support the view that unsuccessful psychopathic women have poor 
planning and are unable to foresee and represent future consequences of their 
actions.

DOI: 10.1017/S0033291713000615
PMID: 23551975 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


538. Alzheimer Dis Assoc Disord. 2013 Oct-Dec;27(4):343-50. doi: 
10.1097/WAD.0b013e3182900b2b.

Effect of cognitive reserve markers on Alzheimer pathologic progression.

Lo RY(1), Jagust WJ; Alzheimer’s Disease Neuroimaging Initiative.

Author information:
(1)*Department of Neurology, Buddhist Tzu Chi General Hospital †College of 
Medicine, Tzu Chi University, Hualien, Taiwan ‡Division of Epidemiology, School 
of Public Health §Helen Wills Neuroscience Institute, University of California 
∥Life Sciences Division, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Berkeley, CA.

Education, occupation, premorbid intelligence, and brain size are surrogate 
markers for cognitive reserve. Whether these markers have biological influence 
on Alzheimer disease (AD) pathology is not known. We thus aimed to investigate 
the effect of cognitive reserve proxies on longitudinal change of AD biomarkers. 
A total of 819 participants with normal cognition, mild cognitive impairment, 
and mild AD were enrolled in the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative and 
followed up with repeated measures of cerebrospinal fluid, positron emission 
tomography, and magnetic resonance imaging biomarkers. Generalized estimating 
equations were used to assess whether biomarker rates of change were modified by 
reserve proxies. Cerebrospinal fluid Aβ42 decline was slower in normal cognition 
participants with higher cognitive reserve indexed by education, occupation, and 
American National Adult Reading Test (ANART). The decline of [F] 
fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography uptake was slower in AD 
participants with better performance on the ANART. Education, occupation, and 
ANART did not modify the rates of magnetic resonance imaging hippocampal atrophy 
in any group. These findings remained unchanged after accounting for APOE 4, 
longitudinal missing data, and baseline cognitive performance. Higher levels of 
reserve markers may slow the rate of amyloid deposition before cognitive 
impairment and preserve glucose metabolism at the dementia stage over the course 
of AD pathologic progression.

DOI: 10.1097/WAD.0b013e3182900b2b
PMCID: PMC3745532
PMID: 23552443 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


539. J Clin Microbiol. 2013 Jun;51(6):1850-4. doi: 10.1128/JCM.00195-13. Epub 2013 
Apr 3.

Impact of routine real-time PCR testing of imported malaria over 4 years of 
implementation in a clinical laboratory.

Shokoples S(1), Mukhi SN, Scott AN, Yanow SK.

Author information:
(1)Provincial Laboratory for Public Health, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada.

In clinical laboratories, diagnosis of imported malaria is commonly performed by 
microscopy. However, the volume of specimens is generally low and maintaining 
proficiency in reading blood smears, particularly at the species level, is 
challenging in this setting. To address this problem, the Provincial Laboratory 
for Public Health (ProvLab) in Alberta, Canada, implemented real-time PCR for 
routine confirmation of all smear-positive samples in the province. Here we 
report our experience over a 4-year period (2008 to 2012) with this new 
diagnostic algorithm. While detection of Plasmodium falciparum by microscopy 
alone was accurate, real-time PCR served as an important adjunct to microscopy 
for the identification of non-falciparum species. In 18% of cases, the result 
was reported as non-falciparum or the species could not be identified by 
microscopy alone, and in all cases, the species was resolved by real-time PCR. 
In another 4% of cases, the species was misidentified by microscopy. To enhance 
surveillance for malaria, we integrated our demographic, clinical, and 
laboratory data into a new system developed by the Canadian Network for Public 
Health Intelligence, called the Malaria System for Online Surveillance (SOS). 
Using this application, we characterized our patient populations and travel 
history to identify risk factors associated with malaria infection abroad.

DOI: 10.1128/JCM.00195-13
PMCID: PMC3716092
PMID: 23554200 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


540. PLoS One. 2013;8(3):e60084. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0060084. Epub 2013 Mar 21.

Estimating premorbid cognitive abilities in low-educated populations.

Apolinario D(1), Brucki SM, Ferretti RE, Farfel JM, Magaldi RM, Busse AL, 
Jacob-Filho W.

Author information:
(1)Geriatrics Division, Department of Internal Medicine, University of São Paulo 
Medical School, São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil. daniel.apolinario@usp.br

OBJECTIVE: To develop an informant-based instrument that would provide a valid 
estimate of premorbid cognitive abilities in low-educated populations.
METHODS: A questionnaire was drafted by focusing on the premorbid period with a 
10-year time frame. The initial pool of items was submitted to classical test 
theory and a factorial analysis. The resulting instrument, named the Premorbid 
Cognitive Abilities Scale (PCAS), is composed of questions addressing 
educational attainment, major lifetime occupation, reading abilities, reading 
habits, writing abilities, calculation abilities, use of widely available 
technology, and the ability to search for specific information. The validation 
sample was composed of 132 older Brazilian adults from the following three 
demographically matched groups: normal cognitive aging (n = 72), mild cognitive 
impairment (n = 33), and mild dementia (n = 27). The scores of a reading test 
and a neuropsychological battery were adopted as construct criteria. Post-mortem 
inter-informant reliability was tested in a sub-study with two relatives from 
each deceased individual.
RESULTS: All items presented good discriminative power, with corrected 
item-total correlation varying from 0.35 to 0.74. The summed score of the 
instrument presented high correlation coefficients with global cognitive 
function (r = 0.73) and reading skills (r = 0.82). Cronbach's alpha was 0.90, 
showing optimal internal consistency without redundancy. The scores did not 
decrease across the progressive levels of cognitive impairment, suggesting that 
the goal of evaluating the premorbid state was achieved. The intraclass 
correlation coefficient was 0.96, indicating excellent inter-informant 
reliability.
CONCLUSION: The instrument developed in this study has shown good properties and 
can be used as a valid estimate of premorbid cognitive abilities in low-educated 
populations. The applicability of the PCAS, both as an estimate of premorbid 
intelligence and cognitive reserve, is discussed.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0060084
PMCID: PMC3605367
PMID: 23555894 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


541. BMC Psychiatry. 2013 Apr 4;13:105. doi: 10.1186/1471-244X-13-105.

Neurocognitive profiles in treatment-resistant bipolar I and bipolar II disorder 
depression.

Kessler U(1), Schoeyen HK, Andreassen OA, Eide GE, Hammar Å, Malt UF, Oedegaard 
KJ, Morken G, Sundet K, Vaaler AE.

Author information:
(1)Moodnet Research Group, Psychiatric Division, Haukeland University Hospital, 
Bergen, Norway. ute.kessler@helse-bergen.no

BACKGROUND: The literature on the neuropsychological profiles in Bipolar 
disorder (BD) depression is sparse. The aims of the study were to assess the 
neurocognitive profiles in treatment-resistant, acutely admitted BD depression 
inpatients, to compare the neurocognitive functioning in patients with BD I and 
II, and to identify the demographic and clinical illness characteristics 
associated with cognitive functioning.
METHODS: Acutely admitted BD I (n = 19) and BD II (n = 32) inpatients who 
fulfilled the DSM-IV-TR criteria for a major depressive episode were tested with 
the MATRICS Consensus Cognitive Battery (MCCB), the Wechsler Abbreviated Scale 
of Intelligence, the National Adult Reading Test, and a battery of clinical 
measures.
RESULTS: Neurocognitive impairments were evident in the BD I and BD II 
depression inpatients within all MCCB domains. The numerical scores on all 
MCCB-measures were lower in the BD I group than in the BD II group, with a 
significant difference on one of the measures, category fluency. 68.4% of the BD 
I patients had clinically significant impairment (>1.5 SD below normal mean) in 
two or more domains compared to 37.5% of the BD II patients (p = 0.045). A 
significant reduction in IQ from the premorbid to the current level was seen in 
BD I but not BD II patients. Higher age was associated with greater 
neurocognitive deficits compared to age-adjusted published norms.
CONCLUSIONS: A high proportion of patients with therapy-resistant BD I or II 
depression exhibited global neurocognitive impairments with clinically 
significant severity. The cognitive impairments were more common in BD I 
compared to BD II patients, particularly processing speed. These findings 
suggest that clinicians should be aware of the severe neurocognitive dysfunction 
in treatment-resistant bipolar depression, particularly in BD I.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: NCT00664976.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-244X-13-105
PMCID: PMC3637095
PMID: 23557429 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


542. Neuroimage. 2014 Jan 15;85 Pt 1:508-17. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2013.03.052. 
Epub 2013 Apr 2.

Genetic influences on prefrontal activation during a verbal fluency task in 
adults: a twin study based on multichannel near-infrared spectroscopy.

Sakakibara E(1), Takizawa R, Nishimura Y, Kawasaki S, Satomura Y, Kinoshita A, 
Koike S, Marumo K, Kinou M, Tochigi M, Nishida N, Tokunaga K, Eguchi S, Yamasaki 
S, Natsubori T, Iwashiro N, Inoue H, Takano Y, Takei K, Suga M, Yamasue H, 
Matsubayashi J, Kohata K, Shimojo C, Okuhata S, Kono T, Kuwabara H, 
Ishii-Takahashi A, Kawakubo Y, Kasai K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Graduate School of Medicine, The University of 
Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan(2); Department of Psychiatry, National Center Hospital, 
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Tokyo, Japan. Electronic address: 
sakakibara-tky@umin.ac.jp.

Near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) studies have reported that prefrontal 
hemodynamic dysfunction during executive function tasks may be a promising 
biomarker of psychiatric disorders, because its portability and noninvasiveness 
allow easy measurements in clinical settings. Here, we investigated the degree 
to which prefrontal NIRS signals are genetically determined. Using a 52-channel 
NIRS system, we monitored the oxy-hemoglobin (oxy-Hb) signal changes in 38 adult 
pairs of right-handed monozygotic (MZ) twins and 13 pairs of same-sex 
right-handed dizygotic (DZ) twins during a letter version of the verbal fluency 
task. Heritability was estimated based on a classical twin paradigm using 
structured equation modeling. Significant genetic influences were estimated in 
the right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and left frontal pole. The degrees of 
heritability were 66% and 75% in the variances, respectively. This implies that 
the prefrontal hemodynamic dysfunction observed during an executive function 
task measured by NIRS may be an efficient endophenotype for large-scale imaging 
genetic studies in psychiatric disorders.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2013.03.052
PMID: 23558100 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


543. BMJ Open. 2013 Apr 3;3(4):e002500. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2012-002500. Print 2013.

Executive functioning in children with unilateral cerebral palsy: protocol for a 
cross-sectional study.

Bodimeade HL(1), Whittingham K, Lloyd O, Boyd RN.

Author information:
(1)Discipline of Paediatrics and Child Health, School of Medicine, Queensland 
Cerebral Palsy and Rehabilitation Research Centre, The University of Queensland, 
Brisbane, Australia.

INTRODUCTION: Early brain injury, as found in children with unilateral cerebral 
palsy (CP), may cause deficits in higher-order cognitive tasks known as 
executive functions (EF). EF has been conceptualised as comprised of four 
distinct yet inter-related components: (1) attentional control, (2) cognitive 
flexibility, (3) goal setting and (4) information processing. The aim of this 
study was to examine EF in children with unilateral CP and compare their 
performance with a typically developing reference group (TDC). The potential 
laterality effects of unilateral CP on EF will be explored, as will the 
relationship between the cognitive measures of EF, behavioural manifestations of 
EF, psychological functioning and clinical features of unilateral CP.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: This cross-sectional study aims to recruit a total of 42 
children with unilateral CP (21 right unilateral CP and 21 left unilateral CP) 
and 21 TDC aged between 8 and 16 years. Clinical severity will be described for 
gross motor function and manual ability. Outcomes for cognitive EF measureswill 
include subtests from the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children-Fourth 
Edition, Delis-Kaplan Executive Function System, Rey Complex Figure Test and the 
Test of Everyday Attention for Children. Behavioural manifestations of EF will 
be assessed using the Behaviour Rating Inventory of Executive Function, Parent 
and Teacher versions. Psychological functioning will be examined using the 
Strengths and Difficulties Questionnaire. Between-groups differences will be 
examined in a series of one-way analyses of covariance and followed up using 
linear comparisons. An overall composite of cognitive EF measures will be 
created. Bivariate correlations between the EF composite and psychological 
measures will be calculated.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: This protocol describes a study that, to our 
knowledge, is the first to examine multiple components of EF using a cohort of 
children with unilateral CP. Exploration of potential laterality effects of EF 
among children with a congenital, unilateral brain injury is also novel. 
Possible relationships between EF and psychological functioning will also be 
investigated. Ethics have been obtained through the University of Queensland 
School of Psychology Ethics Committee and the Queensland Children's Health 
Services Human Research Ethics Committee. Results will be disseminated in peer 
reviewed publications and presentations at national and international 
conferences. This study is registered with the Australian New Zealand Clinical 
Trials Registry (ACTRN12611000263998).

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2012-002500
PMCID: PMC3641452
PMID: 23558736


544. Br J Psychol. 2013 May;104(2):212-24. doi: 10.1111/j.2044-8295.2012.02113.x. 
Epub 2012 May 9.

Are stepfathers' education levels associated with the intelligence of their 
stepsons? A register-based study of Norwegian half-brothers.

Eriksen W(1), Sundet JM, Tambs K.

Author information:
(1)Division of Mental Health, Norwegian Institute of Public Health, Oslo, 
Norway. w-bjarer@online.no

We examined the relationship between the parents' education levels and the adult 
intelligence of their children in a population-based, nationwide sample of 
Norwegian half-brothers with different fathers (2,016 pairs of half-brothers). 
In a family where the mother has two children with different men, the firstborn 
child usually lives with the younger child's father during a period of their 
childhood. This makes it possible to study the non-genetic effects of paternal 
education on children's development. Results showed that the education level of 
the younger half-brother's father was positively associated with the 
intelligence score of the older half-brother. The education level of the older 
half-brother's father was not associated with the intelligence score of the 
younger half-brother. Firstborn men whose half-brothers' fathers had high levels 
of education had intelligence scores that were 33% (95% confidence interval: 
18-47%) of a standard deviation higher than those of firstborn men whose 
half-brothers' fathers had low levels of education, after adjustment for the 
biological fathers' education levels, mothers' education levels, and other 
background factors. These findings are compatible with the hypothesis that a 
child's family environment exerts an effect on the cognitive abilities of the 
child that lasts into adulthood.

© 2012 The British Psychological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/j.2044-8295.2012.02113.x
PMID: 23560667 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


545. J Int Neuropsychol Soc. 2013 Jul;19(6):723-8. doi: 10.1017/S1355617713000325. 
Epub 2013 Apr 8.

Tract-based spatial statistics reveal altered relationship between non-verbal 
reasoning abilities and white matter integrity in autism spectrum disorder.

Ellmore TM(1), Li H, Xue Z, Wong ST, Frye RE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology and Program in Behavioral and Cognitive 
Neuroscience, The City College and Graduate Center of the City University of New 
York, New York, NY, USA. tellmore@ccny.cuny.edu

Altered brain connectivity accompanies autism spectrum disorders (ASD), but the 
relationship between connectivity and intellectual abilities, which often 
differs within ASD, and between ASD and typically developing (TD) children, is 
not understood. Here, diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) was used to explore the 
relationship between white matter integrity and non-verbal intelligence 
quotients (IQ) in children with ASD and in age- and gender-matched TD children. 
Tract-based spatial statistical analyses (TBSS) of DTI fractional anisotropy 
(FA) revealed altered relationships between white matter and IQ. Different 
relationships were found using within-group analyses, where regions of 
significant (p < .05, corrected) correlations in ASD overlapped minimally with 
regions of FA-IQ correlations in TD subjects. An additional between-groups 
analysis revealed significant correlation differences in widespread cortical and 
subcortical areas. These preliminary findings suggest altered brain connectivity 
may underlie some differences in intellectual abilities of ASD, and should be 
investigated further in larger samples as a function of development.

DOI: 10.1017/S1355617713000325
PMID: 23561717 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


546. Int J Infect Dis. 2013 Oct;17(10):e862-7. doi: 10.1016/j.ijid.2013.02.014. Epub 
2013 Apr 4.

Neurocognitive function in HIV-positive children in a developing country.

Walker SY(1), Pierre RB, Christie CD, Chang SM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Child and Adolescent Health, University of the West Indies, 
Mona, Kingston 7, Jamaica.

OBJECTIVES: We aimed to characterize neurological outcomes and determine the 
prevalence of HIV encephalopathy in a cohort of HIV-infected children in 
Jamaica.
METHODS: Data for 287 HIV-infected children presenting between 2002 and 2008 
were reviewed and neurological outcomes characterized. A nested case-control 
study was conducted between July and September 2009 used 15 randomly selected 
encephalopathic HIV-infected children aged 7-10 years and 15 matched controls 
(non-encephalopathic HIV-infected). Their neurocognitive functions were 
evaluated using clinical assessment and standardized tests for intelligence, 
short term memory (visuo-spatial and auditory), selective attention, and fine 
motor and coordination functions. Outcomes were compared using Fisher's exact 
test and the Mann-Whitney U-test.
RESULTS: Sixty-seven (23.3%) children were encephalopathic. The median age at 
diagnosis of HIV encephalopathy was 1.6 years (interquartile range (IQR) 1.1-3.4 
years). Predominant abnormalities were delayed milestones (59, 88.1%), 
hyperreflexia (59, 86.5%), spasticity (50, 74.6%), microcephaly (42, 61.7%), and 
quadriparesis (21, 31.3%). The median age of tested children was 8.7 years (IQR 
7.6-10.8 years) in the encephalopathic group and 9 years (IQR 7.4-10.7 years) in 
the non-encephalopathic group. Encephalopathic children performed worse in all 
domains of neurocognitive function (p<0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: A high prevalence of HIV encephalopathy was noted, and significant 
neurocognitive dysfunction identified in encephalopathic children. Optimized 
management through the early identification of neurological impairment and 
implementation of appropriate interventions is recommended to improve quality of 
life.

Copyright © 2013 International Society for Infectious Diseases. Published by 
Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijid.2013.02.014
PMCID: PMC5454494
PMID: 23562357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: No conflict of interest to 
declare. The authors have no financial relationships related to this article to 
disclose.


547. Neurosci Lett. 2013 May 24;543:27-31. doi: 10.1016/j.neulet.2013.02.062. Epub 
2013 Apr 2.

Reduced efficiency of functional brain network underlying intellectual decline 
in patients with low-grade glioma.

Xu H(1), Ding S, Hu X, Yang K, Xiao C, Zou Y, Chen Y, Tao L, Liu H, Qian Z.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Brain Hospital Affiliated to Nanjing Medical 
University, 264 Guangzhou Road, Nanjing 210000, China.

Low-grade glioma (LGG) patients are typically accompanied by varying degrees of 
intellectual impairments. However, the neural mechanisms underlying intellectual 
decline have not yet been well understood. The aim of this study is to 
investigate the relationship between possibly altered functional brain network 
properties and intellectual decline in LGG patients. Chinese revised Wechsler 
adult intelligence scale (WAIS-RC) was used to assess the intelligence of 21 LGG 
patients and 20 healthy controls, matched in age, gender and education. 
Resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) was performed for all 
the subjects to analyze functional network characteristics with graph theory. 
The LGG patients showed significantly poor performance on intelligence test than 
controls (P<0.05). Compared with controls, the patients displayed disturbed 
small-world manner (increased characteristic path length L and normalized 
characteristic path length λ) and decreased global efficiency Eglob. Specially, 
we found that Eglob was positively correlated with intelligence quotient (IQ) 
test scores in LGG group. Furthermore, network hubs, which could significantly 
affect the network efficiency, were in the right insula and right posterior 
cingulate cortex in controls, while in the right thalamus and right posterior 
cingulate cortex in the patients. From the perspective of brain network, our 
results provided evidence of reduced global efficiency for poorer intellectual 
performance in LGG patients, which contributed to understanding the basis of 
intellectual impairments.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neulet.2013.02.062
PMID: 23562503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


548. Front Psychol. 2013 Apr 2;4:150. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2013.00150. eCollection 
2013.

A canonical theory of dynamic decision-making.

Fox J(1), Cooper RP, Glasspool DW.

Author information:
(1)Oxford University Oxford, UK ; University College London London, UK.

Decision-making behavior is studied in many very different fields, from medicine 
and economics to psychology and neuroscience, with major contributions from 
mathematics and statistics, computer science, AI, and other technical 
disciplines. However the conceptualization of what decision-making is and 
methods for studying it vary greatly and this has resulted in fragmentation of 
the field. A theory that can accommodate various perspectives may facilitate 
interdisciplinary working. We present such a theory in which decision-making is 
articulated as a set of canonical functions that are sufficiently general to 
accommodate diverse viewpoints, yet sufficiently precise that they can be 
instantiated in different ways for specific theoretical or practical purposes. 
The canons cover the whole decision cycle, from the framing of a decision based 
on the goals, beliefs, and background knowledge of the decision-maker to the 
formulation of decision options, establishing preferences over them, and making 
commitments. Commitments can lead to the initiation of new decisions and any 
step in the cycle can incorporate reasoning about previous decisions and the 
rationales for them, and lead to revising or abandoning existing commitments. 
The theory situates decision-making with respect to other high-level cognitive 
capabilities like problem solving, planning, and collaborative decision-making. 
The canonical approach is assessed in three domains: cognitive and 
neuropsychology, artificial intelligence, and decision engineering.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2013.00150
PMCID: PMC3613596
PMID: 23565100


549. PLoS One. 2013;8(4):e58676. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0058676. Epub 2013 Apr 2.

First genome-wide association study on anxiety-related behaviours in childhood.

Trzaskowski M(1), Eley TC, Davis OS, Doherty SJ, Hanscombe KB, Meaburn EL, 
Haworth CM, Price T, Plomin R.

Author information:
(1)MRC Social, Genetic and Developmental Psychiatry Centre, Institute of 
Psychiatry, King's College London, De Crespigny Park, London, United Kingdom. 
maciej.trzaskowski@kcl.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Twin studies have shown that anxiety in a general population sample 
of children involves both domain-general and trait-specific genetic effects. For 
this reason, in an attempt to identify genes responsible for these effects, we 
investigated domain-general and trait-specific genetic associations in the first 
genome-wide association (GWA) study on anxiety-related behaviours (ARBs) in 
childhood.
METHODS: The sample included 2810 7-year-olds drawn from the Twins Early 
Development Study (TEDS) with data available for parent-rated anxiety and 
genome-wide DNA markers. The measure was the Anxiety-Related Behaviours 
Questionnaire (ARBQ), which assesses four anxiety traits and also yields a 
general anxiety composite. Affymetrix GeneChip 6.0 DNA arrays were used to 
genotype nearly 700,000 single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), and IMPUTE v2 
was used to impute more than 1 million SNPs. Several GWA associations from this 
discovery sample were followed up in another TEDS sample of 4804 children. In 
addition, Genome-wide Complex Trait Analysis (GCTA) was used on the discovery 
sample, to estimate the total amount of variance in ARBs that can be accounted 
for by SNPs on the array.
RESULTS: No SNP associations met the demanding criterion of genome-wide 
significance that corrects for multiple testing across the genome (p<5×10(-8)). 
Attempts to replicate the top associations did not yield significant results. In 
contrast to the substantial twin study estimates of heritability which ranged 
from 0.50 (0.03) to 0.61 (0.01), the GCTA estimates of phenotypic variance 
accounted for by the SNPs were much lower 0.01 (0.11) to 0.19 (0.12).
CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, these GWAS and GCTA results suggest that 
anxiety--similar to height, weight and intelligence--is affected by many genetic 
variants of small effect, but unlike these other prototypical polygenic traits, 
genetic influence on anxiety is not well tagged by common SNPs.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0058676
PMCID: PMC3614558
PMID: 23565138 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


550. PLoS One. 2013;8(4):e60676. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0060676. Epub 2013 Apr 2.

Tone language speakers and musicians share enhanced perceptual and cognitive 
abilities for musical pitch: evidence for bidirectionality between the domains 
of language and music.

Bidelman GM(1), Hutka S, Moreno S.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Intelligent Systems, University of Memphis, Memphis, TN, USA.

Psychophysiological evidence suggests that music and language are intimately 
coupled such that experience/training in one domain can influence processing 
required in the other domain. While the influence of music on language 
processing is now well-documented, evidence of language-to-music effects have 
yet to be firmly established. Here, using a cross-sectional design, we compared 
the performance of musicians to that of tone-language (Cantonese) speakers on 
tasks of auditory pitch acuity, music perception, and general cognitive ability 
(e.g., fluid intelligence, working memory). While musicians demonstrated 
superior performance on all auditory measures, comparable perceptual 
enhancements were observed for Cantonese participants, relative to 
English-speaking nonmusicians. These results provide evidence that tone-language 
background is associated with higher auditory perceptual performance for music 
listening. Musicians and Cantonese speakers also showed superior working memory 
capacity relative to nonmusician controls, suggesting that in addition to basic 
perceptual enhancements, tone-language background and music training might also 
be associated with enhanced general cognitive abilities. Our findings support 
the notion that tone language speakers and musically trained individuals have 
higher performance than English-speaking listeners for the perceptual-cognitive 
processing necessary for basic auditory as well as complex music perception. 
These results illustrate bidirectional influences between the domains of music 
and language.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0060676
PMCID: PMC3614545
PMID: 23565267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


551. Langmuir. 2013 Jun 18;29(24):7557-64. doi: 10.1021/la400301p. Epub 2013 Apr 8.

Amoeba-inspired nanoarchitectonic computing: solving intractable computational 
problems using nanoscale photoexcitation transfer dynamics.

Aono M(1), Naruse M, Kim SJ, Wakabayashi M, Hori H, Ohtsu M, Hara M.

Author information:
(1)Flucto-Order Functions Research Team, RIKEN-HYU Collaboration Research 
Center, RIKEN Advanced Science Institute, Wako, Saitama, Japan. 
masashi.aono@elsi.jp

Biologically inspired computing devices and architectures are expected to 
overcome the limitations of conventional technologies in terms of solving 
computationally demanding problems, adapting to complex environments, reducing 
energy consumption, and so on. We previously demonstrated that a primitive 
single-celled amoeba (a plasmodial slime mold), which exhibits complex 
spatiotemporal oscillatory dynamics and sophisticated computing capabilities, 
can be used to search for a solution to a very hard combinatorial optimization 
problem. We successfully extracted the essential spatiotemporal dynamics by 
which the amoeba solves the problem. This amoeba-inspired computing paradigm can 
be implemented by various physical systems that exhibit suitable spatiotemporal 
dynamics resembling the amoeba's problem-solving process. In this Article, we 
demonstrate that photoexcitation transfer phenomena in certain quantum 
nanostructures mediated by optical near-field interactions generate the 
amoebalike spatiotemporal dynamics and can be used to solve the satisfiability 
problem (SAT), which is the problem of judging whether a given logical 
proposition (a Boolean formula) is self-consistent. SAT is related to diverse 
application problems in artificial intelligence, information security, and 
bioinformatics and is a crucially important nondeterministic polynomial time 
(NP)-complete problem, which is believed to become intractable for conventional 
digital computers when the problem size increases. We show that our 
amoeba-inspired computing paradigm dramatically outperforms a conventional 
stochastic search method. These results indicate the potential for developing 
highly versatile nanoarchitectonic computers that realize powerful solution 
searching with low energy consumption.

DOI: 10.1021/la400301p
PMID: 23565603 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


552. Int J Psychophysiol. 2013 Aug;89(2):229-40. doi: 10.1016/j.ijpsycho.2013.03.018. 
Epub 2013 Apr 6.

The association between sleep spindles and IQ in healthy school-age children.

Gruber R(1), Wise MS, Frenette S, Knäauper B, Boom A, Fontil L, Carrier J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, McGill University, Douglas Mental Health University 
Institute, 6875 LaSalle Boulevard, Verdun, QC H4H 1R3, Canada; Attention, 
Behavior and Sleep Lab, Douglas Mental Health University Institute, 6875 LaSalle 
Boulevard, Verdun, QC H4H 1R3, Canada. Electronic address: 
reut.gruber@douglas.mcgill.ca.

Recent studies have suggested that sleep is associated with IQ measures in 
children, but the underlying mechanism remains unknown. An association between 
sleep spindles and IQ has been found in adults, but only two previous studies 
have explored this topic in children. The goal of this study was to examine 
whether sleep spindle frequency, amplitude, duration and/or density were 
associated with performance on the perceptual reasoning, verbal comprehension, 
working memory, and processing speed subscales of the Wechsler Intelligence 
Scale for Children-IV (WISC-IV). We recruited 29 typically developing children 
7-11 years of age. We used portable polysomnography to document sleep 
architecture in the natural home environment and evaluated IQ. We found that 
lower sleep spindle frequency was associated with better performance on the 
perceptual reasoning and working memory WISC-IV scales, but that sleep spindle 
amplitude, duration and density were not associated with performance on the IQ 
test.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijpsycho.2013.03.018
PMID: 23566888 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


553. Drug Healthc Patient Saf. 2013;5:57-65. doi: 10.2147/DHPS.S40887. Epub 2013 Mar 
24.

Patient safety in orthopedic surgery: prioritizing key areas of iatrogenic harm 
through an analysis of 48,095 incidents reported to a national database of 
errors.

Panesar SS(1), Carson-Stevens A, Salvilla SA, Patel B, Mirza SB, Mann B.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Population Health Sciences, The University of Edinburgh, 
Edinburgh, UK.

BACKGROUND: With scientific and technological advances, the practice of 
orthopedic surgery has transformed the lives of millions worldwide. Such 
successes however have a downside; not only is the provision of comprehensive 
orthopedic care becoming a fiscal challenge to policy-makers and funders, 
concerns are also being raised about the extent of the associated iatrogenic 
harm. The National Reporting and Learning System (NRLS) in England and Wales is 
an underused resource which collects intelligence from reports about health care 
error.
METHODS: Using methods akin to case-control methodology, we have identified a 
method of prioritizing the areas of a national database of errors that have the 
greatest propensity for harm. Our findings are presented using odds ratios (ORs) 
and 95% confidence intervals (CIs).
RESULTS: The largest proportion of surgical patient safety incidents reported to 
the NRLS was from the trauma and orthopedics specialty, 48,095/163,595 (29.4%). 
Of those, 14,482/48,095 (30.1%) resulted in iatrogenic harm to the patient and 
71/48,095 (0.15%) resulted in death. The leading types of errors associated with 
harm involved the implementation of care and on-going monitoring (OR 5.94, 95% 
CI 5.53, 6.38); self-harming behavior of patients in hospitals (OR 2.14, 95% CI 
1.45, 3.18); and infection control (OR 1.91, 95% CI 1.69, 2.17). We analyze 
these data to quantify the extent and type of iatrogenic harm in the specialty, 
and make suggestions on the way forward. CONCLUSION AND LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: 
Despite the limitations of such analyses, it is clear that there are many proven 
interventions which can improve patient safety and need to be implemented. 
Avoidable errors must be prevented, lest we be accused of contravening our 
fundamental duty of primum non nocere. This is a level III evidence-based study.

DOI: 10.2147/DHPS.S40887
PMCID: PMC3615848
PMID: 23569398


554. BMC Psychiatry. 2013 Apr 9;13:109. doi: 10.1186/1471-244X-13-109.

The relationship between obesity and neurocognitive function in Chinese patients 
with schizophrenia.

Guo X(1), Zhang Z, Wei Q, Lv H, Wu R, Zhao J.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Mental Health, the Second Xiangya Hospital, Central South 
University, No, 139 Renmin Mid Road, Changsha 410011, China.

BACKGROUND: Studies have reported that up to 60% of individuals with 
schizophrenia are overweight or obese. This study explored the relationship 
between obesity and cognitive performance in Chinese patients with 
schizophrenia.
METHODS: Outpatients with schizophrenia aged 18-50 years were recruited from 10 
study sites across China. Demographic and clinical information was collected. A 
neuropsychological battery including tests of attention, processing speed, 
learning/memory, and executive functioning was used to assess cognitive 
function, and these 4 individual domains were transformed into a neurocognitive 
composite z score. In addition, height and weight were measured to calculate 
body mass index (BMI). Patients were categorized into 4 groups (underweight, 
normal weight, overweight and obese) based on BMI cutoff values for Asian 
populations recommended by the World Health Organization.
RESULTS: A total number of 896 patients were enrolled into the study. Fifty-four 
percent of participants were overweight or obese. A higher BMI was significantly 
associated with lower scores on the Wechsler Memory Scale-Revised (WMS-R) Visual 
Reproduction subscale, the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Revised (WAIS-R) 
Digit Symbol subscale, and the composite z score (p's ≤ 0.024). Obese patients 
with schizophrenia had significantly lower scores than normal weight patients on 
the Trail Making Test B, the WMS-R Visual Reproduction subscale, the WAIS Digit 
Symbol subscale, and the composite z score (p's ≤ 0.004).
CONCLUSIONS: Our study suggests that, in addition to its well established risk 
for various cardiometabolic conditions, obesity is also associated with 
decreased cognitive function in Chinese patients with schizophrenia. Future 
studies should explore if weight loss and management can improve cognitive 
function in obese patients who suffer from schizophrenia.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-244X-13-109
PMCID: PMC3627610
PMID: 23570390 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


555. Zhonghua Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2013 Jan 15;93(3):172-6.

[Practical executive function performance in high intelligence quotient children 
and adolescents with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder].

[Article in Chinese]

He XX(1), Qian Y, Wang YF.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Mental Health, Peking University, Beijing, China.

OBJECTIVE: To explore the practical executive function profiles in high IQ 
(intelligence quotient) children and adolescents with attention deficit 
hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in a Chinese sample population.
METHODS: For this cross-sectional study, we identified 124 outpatients aged 6.8 
- 13.1 years with a high IQ fulfilling the diagnostic criteria for ADHD 
according to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders-IV 
(DSM-IV), 68 children and adolescents without ADHD aged 6.5 - 13.1 years with a 
high IQ matched by high IQ children and adolescents with ADHD, 124 outpatients 
aged 6.8 - 13.2 years with an average IQ with ADHD and 68 normal children and 
adolescents aged 6.4 - 13.1 years with an average IQ matched by IQ. We 
operationalized high IQ as having a full scale intelligence quotient (IQ or 
FSIQ) ≥ 120 on Chinese version Wechsler intelligence scale for children (C-WISC) 
and an average IQ as 90 ≤ IQ < 110. All the above groups were matched by age. 
All subjects completed practical executive function tests, including Stroop 
color-word, trail-making, digit span, Tower of Hanoi task and verbal fluency to 
assess their ability in the aspects of inhibition, shifting, working memory, 
planning and verbal fluency.
RESULTS: ADHD group with a high IQ performed worse on the Stroop color-word 
(3.18 ± 0.05) and trail-making tests (4.38 ± 0.55) than normal control group 
with a high IQ (2.92 ± 0.07 and 4.05 ± 0.07) (P < 0.01). The test performances 
of trail-making, digit span (4.86 ± 0.13) and fluency (23.0 ± 0.5) were 
significantly better in high IQ ADHD group than average IQ ADHD group (4.10 ± 
0.07 and 19.9 ± 0.5) (P < 0.01).
CONCLUSION: Though a bit better than average IQ ADHD group in shifting, working 
memory and verbal fluency, the high IQ children and adolescents with ADHD 
perform worse than high-IQ controls on inhibition and shifting. IQ may protect 
practical executive function.

PMID: 23570588 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


556. Sci Total Environ. 2013 Jun 1;454-455:562-77. doi: 
10.1016/j.scitotenv.2013.03.047. Epub 2013 Apr 9.

Association of arsenic, cadmium and manganese exposure with neurodevelopment and 
behavioural disorders in children: a systematic review and meta-analysis.

Rodríguez-Barranco M(1), Lacasaña M, Aguilar-Garduño C, Alguacil J, Gil F, 
González-Alzaga B, Rojas-García A.

Author information:
(1)Andalusian School of Public Health (EASP), Granada, Spain.

The aim of this study was to analyse the scientific evidence published to date 
on the potential effects on neurodevelopment and behavioural disorders in 
children exposed to arsenic, cadmium and manganese and to quantify the magnitude 
of the effect on neurodevelopment by pooling the results of the different 
studies. We conducted a systematic review of original articles from January 2000 
until March 2012, that evaluate the effects on neurodevelopment and behavioural 
disorders due to pre or post natal exposure to arsenic, cadmium and manganese in 
children up to 16 years of age. We also conducted a meta-analysis assessing the 
effects of exposure to arsenic and manganese on neurodevelopment. Forty-one 
articles that evaluated the effects of metallic elements on neurodevelopment and 
behavioural disorders met the inclusion criteria: 18 examined arsenic, 6 cadmium 
and 17 manganese. Most studies evaluating exposure to arsenic (13 of 18) and 
manganese (14 of 17) reported a significant negative effect on neurodevelopment 
and behavioural disorders. Only two studies that evaluated exposure to cadmium 
found an association with neurodevelopmental or behavioural disorders. The 
results of our meta-analysis suggest that a 50% increase of arsenic levels in 
urine would be associated with a 0.4 decrease in the intelligence quotient (IQ) 
of children aged 5-15 years. Moreover a 50% increase of manganese levels in hair 
would be associated with a decrease of 0.7 points in the IQ of children aged 
6-13 years. There is evidence that relates arsenic and manganese exposure with 
neurodevelopmental problems in children, but there is little information on 
cadmium exposure. Few studies have evaluated behavioural disorders due to 
exposure to these compounds, and manganese is the only one for which there is 
more evidence of the existence of association with attention deficit disorder 
with hyperactivity.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2013.03.047
PMID: 23570911 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


557. Anal Bioanal Chem. 2013 May;405(14):4707-17. doi: 10.1007/s00216-013-6907-0. 
Epub 2013 Apr 10.

Detection, quantification, and identification of dermorphin in equine plasma and 
urine by LC-MS/MS for doping control.

Guan F(1), Uboh CE, Soma LR, Robinson M, Maylin GA, Li X.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Studies, School of Veterinary Medicine, University of 
Pennsylvania, Kennett Square, PA 19483, USA.

Dermorphin is a unique opioid peptide that is 30-40 times more potent than 
morphine. It was misused and went undetected in horse racing until 2011 when 
intelligence obtained from a few North American race tracks suggested its use. 
To prevent such misuse, a reliable analytical method became necessary for 
detection and identification of dermorphin in post-race horse samples. This 
paper describes the first liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry 
(LC-MS/MS) method for such a purpose. Equine plasma and urine samples were 
pre-treated with ethylenediamine tetra-acetic acid and urea prior to solid-phase 
extraction (SPE) on Oasis MCX cartridges. Resulting eluates were dried under 
vacuum and analyzed by LC-MS/MS for dermorphin. The matrix effect, SPE 
efficiency, intra-day and inter-day accuracy and precision, and stability of the 
analyte were assessed. The limit of detection was 10 pg/mL in plasma and 20 
pg/mL in urine, and the limit of confirmation was 20 pg/mL in plasma and 50 
pg/mL in urine. Dermorphin in plasma is stable at ambient temperature, but its 
diastereomer is unstable. With isotopically labeled dermorphin as an internal 
standard, the quantification range was 20-10,000 pg/mL in plasma and 50-20,000 
pg/mL in urine. The intra-day and inter-day accuracy was from 91 % to 100 % for 
the low, intermediate, and high concentrations. The intra-day and inter-day 
coefficients of variation were less than 12 %. The method differentiates 
dermorphin from its diastereomer. This method is very specific for 
identification of dermorphin in equine plasma and urine, as assessed by BLAST 
search and targeted SEQUEST search, and by MS/MS spectrum library search. The 
method has been successfully applied to analysis of samples collected following 
dermorphin administration to research horses and of official post-race samples.

DOI: 10.1007/s00216-013-6907-0
PMID: 23571464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


558. J Hypertens. 2013 Jun;31(6):1175-82. doi: 10.1097/HJH.0b013e3283604176.

Blood pressure and cognitive function: a prospective analysis among adolescents 
in Seychelles.

Lyngdoh T(1), Viswanathan B, Kobrosly R, van Wijngaarden E, Huber B, Davidson 
PW, Cory-Slechta DA, Strain JJ, Myers GJ, Bovet P.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Social and Preventive Medicine, Lausanne University Hospital, 
Lausanne, Switzerland.

Erratum in
    J Hypertens. 2013 Oct;31(10):2105. Strain, Sean [corrected to Strain, John 
J].

OBJECTIVE: An inverse relationship between blood pressure (BP) and cognitive 
function has been found in adults, but limited data are available in adolescents 
and young adults. We examined the prospective relation between BP and cognitive 
function in adolescence.
METHODS: We examined the association between BP measured at the ages of 12-15 
years in school surveys and cognitive endpoints measured in the Seychelles Child 
Development Study at ages 17 (n = 407) and 19 (n = 429) years, respectively. We 
evaluated multiple domains of cognition based on subtests of the Cambridge 
Neurological Test Automated Battery (CANTAB), the Woodcock Johnson Test of 
Scholastic Achievement (WJTA), the Finger Tapping test (FT) and the Kaufman 
Brief Intelligence Test (K-BIT). We used age, sex and height-specific z-scores 
of SBP, DBP and mean arterial pressure (MAP).
RESULTS: Six out of the 21 cognitive endpoints tested were associated with BP. 
However, none of these associations were found to hold for both males and 
females or for different subtests within the same neurodevelopmental domain or 
for both SBP and DBP. Most of these associations disappeared when analyses were 
adjusted for selected potential confounding factors such as socio-economic 
status, birth weight, gestational age, BMI, alcohol consumption, blood glucose, 
and total n-3 and n-6 polyunsaturated fats.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings do not support a consistent association between BP and 
subsequent performance on tests assessing various cognitive domains in 
adolescents.

DOI: 10.1097/HJH.0b013e3283604176
PMCID: PMC3874141
PMID: 23572201 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICT OF INTEREST The authors declare that 
they have no competing interests.


559. Cerebellum. 2013 Oct;12(5):676-85. doi: 10.1007/s12311-013-0469-8.

Gray matter reduction in the vermis and CRUS-II is associated with social and 
interaction deficits in low-functioning children with autistic spectrum 
disorders: a VBM-DARTEL Study.

Riva D(1), Annunziata S, Contarino V, Erbetta A, Aquino D, Bulgheroni S.

Author information:
(1)Developmental Neurology Division, Fondazione IRCCS Istituto Neurologico 
C.Besta, Via Celoria 11, 20133, Milan, Italy. driva@istituto-besta.it

Voxel-based morphometry (VBM) studies have reported abnormalities in brain 
regions involved in functions that are commonly impaired in autism spectrum 
disorders (ASD). However, little is known about brain structure anomalies in 
low-functioning (LF) young children with ASD. A VBM analysis was carried out to 
assess brain regions involved in ASD LF children, and a multiple regression 
analysis was used to examine the relationship between regional volume changes 
and autism symptom measures. Twenty-six LF ASD children (2-10 years) were 
compared with 21 controls. A VBM-Diffeomorphic Anatomical Registration analysis 
using Exponentiated Lie algebra (DARTEL) was used to evaluate gray matter (GM) 
and white matter alterations, covaried with Intelligence Quotient, age, and 
total brain volume. The resulting altered regions were correlated with Autism 
Diagnostic Interview (ADI)-Revised and Autism Diagnostic Observation Schedule 
(ADOS)-Generic scores. GM bilateral reduction was noted in the cerebellum (Crus 
II and vermis) and in the hippocampi in ASD group. GM reduction was also 
detected in the inferior and superior frontal gyri, in the occipital medial and 
superior gyri, and in the inferior temporal gyrus of the left cerebral 
hemisphere. In the right hemisphere, GM reduction was found in the post-central 
cortex and in the occipital inferior gyrus. Multiple regression analysis showed 
a correlation between alterations in GM volume in the cerebellum (Crus II and 
vermis) and ADI-communication and ADOS-total (communication and interaction) 
scores. These findings seem to confirm that the cerebellum is involved in 
integrating and regulating emotional and cognitive functions which are impaired 
in ASD.

DOI: 10.1007/s12311-013-0469-8
PMID: 23572290 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


560. Child Dev. 2013 Nov-Dec;84(6):1879-86. doi: 10.1111/cdev.12101. Epub 2013 Apr 
10.

Children's naive theories of intelligence influence their metacognitive 
judgments.

Miele DB(1), Son LK, Metcalfe J.

Author information:
(1)University of Maryland.

Recent studies have shown that the metacognitive judgments adults infer from 
their experiences of encoding effort vary in accordance with their naive 
theories of intelligence. To determine whether this finding extends to 
elementary schoolchildren, a study was conducted in which 27 third graders 
(M(age) = 8.27) and 24 fifth graders (M(age) = 10.39) read texts presented in 
easy- or difficult-to-encode fonts. The more children in both grades viewed 
intelligence as fixed, the less likely they were to interpret effortful or 
difficult encoding as a sign of increasing mastery and the more likely they were 
to report lower levels of comprehension as their perceived effort increased. 
This suggests that children may use naive theories of intelligence to make 
motivationally relevant inferences earlier than previously thought.

© 2013 The Authors. Child Development © 2013 Society for Research in Child 
Development, Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/cdev.12101
PMID: 23574195 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


561. Paediatr Perinat Epidemiol. 2013 May;27(3):283-93. doi: 10.1111/ppe.12046.

Physical activity during pregnancy and language development in the offspring.

Jukic AM(1), Lawlor DA, Juhl M, Owe KM, Lewis B, Liu J, Wilcox AJ, Longnecker 
MP.

Author information:
(1)Epidemiology Branch, National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences, 
Durham, NC 27709, USA. jukica@niehs.nih.gov

BACKGROUND: In rodents, physical activity during pregnancy has been associated 
with improved learning and memory in the offspring. We used data from the Avon 
Longitudinal Study of Parents and Children (born in 1991-92) to investigate 
maternal physical activity during pregnancy and offspring language development.
METHODS: At 18 weeks of gestation, women reported the hours per week they 
participated in 11 leisure-time physical activities and the hours per week spent 
in general physical activity (leisure, household and occupational). Caregivers 
completed a modified MacArthur Infant Communication scale at 15 months. Verbal 
intelligence quotient (IQ) was measured at age 8 years. Regression analysis was 
used to examine the associations of physical activity with MacArthur score (more 
than 75th percentile) and verbal IQ. The number of participants available for 
analyses ranged from 4529 to 7162.
RESULTS: Children of women in the two highest quintiles of leisure activity 
(compared with no leisure activity) were more likely to have high 15-month 
MacArthur scores (adjusted odds ratio 1.2 [95% confidence interval 0.9, 1.4] and 
adjusted odds ratio 1.4 [95% CI 1.1, 1.7], respectively). Leisure activity was 
not associated with IQ, while general physical activity was linked with lower 
verbal IQ (1 and 3 points lower for the two highest quintiles).
CONCLUSIONS: The most robust finding was a transient increase in offspring 
vocabulary score at young ages with maternal leisure activity. Differences in 
the associations with leisure-time physical activity compared with general 
physical activity need further exploration.

© 2013 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ppe.12046
PMCID: PMC3646544
PMID: 23574417 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


562. J Int Neuropsychol Soc. 2013 Jul;19(6):664-71. doi: 10.1017/S1355617713000192. 
Epub 2013 Apr 11.

Cognitive reserve components as expressed in traumatic brain injury.

Levi Y(1), Rassovsky Y, Agranov E, Sela-Kaufman M, Vakil E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Bar-Ilan University, Ramat-Gan, Israel.

Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is the most common cause of brain damage, resulting 
in long-term disability. The "reserve" construct has been proposed to account 
for the reported mismatch between brain damage and its clinical expression. 
Although numerous studies have used various measures thought to reflect this 
construct, few studies have examined its underlying structure in clinical 
populations, and no studies have systematically studied this construct in TBI. 
In the present study, structural equation modeling technique was used to 
evaluate several models hypothesized to represent cognitive reserve (CR) in TBI. 
A broad range of data typically reported in the literature as representing CR 
was collected from 89 individuals who sustained moderate-to-severe TBI. Analyses 
revealed a best fitting model that consisted of three separate factors 
representing premorbid intelligence, socioeconomic status and leisure activity, 
with distinct pattern of associations among the three factors. Findings provide 
empirical support for the notion of a multi-factorial CR and suggest a coherent 
framework for further investigation.

DOI: 10.1017/S1355617713000192
PMID: 23575273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


563. J Dent Educ. 2013 Apr;77(4):416-26.

What is the relationship between emotional intelligence and dental student 
clinical performance?

Victoroff KZ(1), Boyatzis RE.

Author information:
(1)School of Dental Medicine, Case Western Reserve University, 10900 Euclid 
Avenue, Cleveland, OH 44106-4905, USA. kristin.victoroff@case.edu

Emotional intelligence has emerged as a key factor in differentiating average 
from outstanding performers in managerial and leadership positions across 
multiple business settings, but relatively few studies have examined the role of 
emotional intelligence in the health care professions. The purpose of this study 
was to examine the relationship between emotional intelligence (EI) and dental 
student clinical performance. All third- and fourth-year students at a single 
U.S. dental school were invited to participate. Participation rate was 74 
percent (100/136). Dental students' EI was assessed using the Emotional 
Competence Inventory-University version (ECI-U), a seventy-two-item, 360-degree 
questionnaire completed by both self and other raters. The ECI-U measured 
twenty-two EI competencies grouped into four clusters (Self-Awareness, 
Self-Management, Social Awareness, and Relationship Management). Clinical 
performance was assessed using the mean grade assigned by clinical preceptors. 
This grade represents an overall assessment of a student's clinical performance 
including diagnostic and treatment planning skills, time utilization, 
preparation and organization, fundamental knowledge, technical skills, 
self-evaluation, professionalism, and patient management. Additional variables 
were didactic grade point average (GPA) in Years 1 and 2, preclinical GPA in 
Years 1 and 2, Dental Admission Test academic average and Perceptual Ability 
Test scores, year of study, age, and gender. Multiple linear regression analyses 
were conducted. The Self-Management cluster of competencies (b=0.448, p<0.05) 
and preclinical GPA (b=0.317, p<0.01) were significantly correlated with mean 
clinical grade. The Self-Management competencies were emotional self-control, 
achievement orientation, initiative, trustworthiness, conscientiousness, 
adaptability, and optimism. In this sample, dental students' EI competencies 
related to Self-Management were significant predictors of mean clinical grade 
assigned by preceptors. Emotional intelligence may be an important predictor of 
clinical performance, which has important implications for students' development 
during dental school.

PMID: 23576587 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


564. J Psychiatr Ment Health Nurs. 2014 Mar;21(2):106-13. doi: 10.1111/jpm.12052. 
Epub 2013 Apr 12.

Emotional intelligence, life satisfaction and subjective happiness in female 
student health professionals: the mediating effect of perceived stress.

Ruiz-Aranda D(1), Extremera N, Pineda-Galán C.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Psychology, University of Málaga, Málaga, Spain.

The objective of the present study was to extend previous findings by examining 
the relationship between emotional intelligence (EI) and well-being indicators 
(life satisfaction and happiness) in a 12-week follow-up study. In addition, we 
examined the influence of perceived stress on the relationship between EI and 
well-being. Female students from the School of Health Sciences (n = 264) 
completed an ability measure of emotional intelligence. After 12 weeks, 
participants completed the Perceived Stress Scale, Satisfaction with Life Scale 
and Subjective Happiness Scale. Participants with higher EI reported less 
perceived stress and higher levels of life satisfaction and happiness. The 
results of this study suggest that perceived stress mediates the relationship 
between EI and well-being indicators, specifically life satisfaction and 
happiness. These findings suggest an underlying process by which high emotional 
intelligence may increase well-being in female students in nursing and allied 
health sciences by reducing the experience of stress. The implications of these 
findings for future research and for working with health professions to improve 
well-being outcomes are discussed.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jpm.12052
PMID: 23578272 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


565. Onco Targets Ther. 2013 Apr 3;6:311-3. doi: 10.2147/OTT.S42471. Print 2013.

Resting-state magnetoencephalography study of "small world" characteristics and 
cognitive dysfunction in patients with glioma.

Hu XH(1), Lei T, Xu HZ, Zou YJ, Liu HY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Brain Hospital Affiliated to Nanjing Medical 
University, Nanjing, People's Republic of China.

BACKGROUND: The purpose of this study was to analyze "small world" 
characteristics in glioma patients in order to understand the relationship 
between cognitive dysfunction and brain functional connectivity network in the 
resting state.
METHODS: Resting-state magnetoencephalography was performed in 20 patients with 
glioma and 20 healthy subjects. The clustering coefficient of the resting 
functional connectivity network in the brain, average path length, and "small 
world" index (SWI) were calculated. Cognitive function was estimated by testing 
of attention, verbal fluency, memory, athletic ability, visual-spatial ability, 
and intelligence.
RESULTS: Compared with healthy controls, patients with glioma showed decreased 
cognitive function, and diminished low and high gamma band "small world" 
characteristics in the resting functional connectivity network.
CONCLUSION: The SWI is associated with cognitive function and is diminished in 
patients with glioma, and is therefore correlated with cognition dysfunction.

DOI: 10.2147/OTT.S42471
PMCID: PMC3621646
PMID: 23579278


566. Nutr Neurosci. 2013 Jul;16(4):183-90. doi: 10.1179/1476830512Y.0000000045.

Low docosahexaenoic acid status is associated with reduced indices in cortical 
integrity in the anterior cingulate of healthy male children: a 1H MRS Study.

McNamara RK(1), Jandacek R, Tso P, Weber W, Chu WJ, Strakowski SM, Adler CM, 
Delbello MP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Neuroscience, Center for Imaging 
Research, University of Cincinnati College of Medicine, Cincinnati, OH, USA. 
robert.mcnamara@uc.edu

Docosahexaenoic acid (DHA, 22:6n-3) is the principal omega-3 fatty acid in 
mammalian brain gray matter, and emerging preclinical evidence suggests that DHA 
has neurotrophic and neuroprotective properties. This study investigated 
relationships among DHA status, neurocognitive performance, and cortical 
metabolism measured with proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy (1H MRS) in 
healthy developing male children (aged 8-10 years, n = 38). Subjects were 
segregated into low-DHA (n = 19) and high-DHA (n = 19) status groups by a median 
split of erythrocyte DHA levels. Group differences in 1H MRS indices of cortical 
metabolism, including choline (Cho), creatine (Cr), glutamine + glutamate + 
γ-aminobutyric acid (Glx), myo-inositol (mI), and n-acetyl aspartate (NAA), were 
determined in the right and left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (R/L-DLPFC, BA9) 
and bilateral anterior cingulate cortex (ACC, BA32/33). Group differences in 
neurocognitive performance were evaluated with the Kaufman Brief Intelligence 
Test and identical-pairs version of the continuous performance task (CPT-IP). 
Subjects in the low-DHA group consumed fish less frequently (P = 0.02), had 
slower reaction times on the CPT-IP (P = 0.007), and exhibited lower mI (P = 
0.007), NAA (P = 0.007), Cho (P = 0.009), and Cr (P = 0.01) concentrations in 
the ACC compared with the high-DHA group. There were no group differences in ACC 
Glx or any metabolite in the L-DLPFC and R-DLPFC. These data indicate that 
low-DHA status is associated with reduced indices of metabolic function in the 
ACC and slower reaction time during sustained attention in developing male 
children.

DOI: 10.1179/1476830512Y.0000000045
PMCID: PMC4101902
PMID: 23582513 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None of the other authors have a conflict of 
interest to disclose.


567. J Geriatr Psychiatry Neurol. 2013 Jun;26(2):117-26. doi: 
10.1177/0891988713484194. Epub 2013 Apr 12.

Premorbid IQ influence on screening tests' scores in healthy patients and 
patients with cognitive impairment.

Alves L(1), Simões MR, Martins C, Freitas S, Santana I.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Psychology and Educational Sciences, University of Coimbra, 
Coimbra, Portugal. laralves79@gmail.com

Cognitive screening tests are well-established tools for detecting cognitive 
impairment, but concerns regarding the influence of premorbid intelligence on 
patient's performance and cognitive status classification remain. Risk of 
inaccurate assessment especially affects the elders with high or low premorbid 
intelligence (who are more likely to be misclassified). The present study 
examines the influence of premorbid intelligence assessed by the TeLPI (an 
irregular words reading test) on 2 cognitive screening tests, the Mini-Mental 
State Examination (MMSE) and the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA), in 
healthy participants and patients with cognitive impairments (mild cognitive 
impairment and Alzheimer disease). Results show that premorbid IQ influences the 
MMSE and the MoCA scores in both the groups, predicting variance from 8.4% to 
33.2%, according to test and group analyzed. Hence, we propose that whenever the 
MMSE or the MoCA is used, premorbid IQ evaluation should also be considered to 
ensure correct interpretation and classification.

DOI: 10.1177/0891988713484194
PMID: 23584853 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


568. Appl Dev Sci. 2013;17(2):76-87. doi: 10.1080/10888691.2013.774875.

Developmental Pathways among Adaptive Functioning and Externalizing and 
Internalizing Behavioral Problems: Cascades from Childhood into Adolescence.

Bornstein MH(1), Hahn CS, Suwalsky JT.

Author information:
(1)Child and Family Research Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child 
Health and Human Development.

A developmental cascade describes a longitudinal cross-domain unique relation. 
Here, a 3-wave multivariate design and developmental cascade analysis were used 
to investigate pathways among adaptive functioning and externalizing and 
internalizing behavioral problems in a community sample of 134 children seen at 
4, 10, and 14 years. Children, mothers, and teachers provided data. Nested path 
analytic models tested the plausible cascades among the three domains apart from 
their covariation at each age and rank-order stability across age. Adaptive 
functioning in early adolescence was predicted by early childhood adaptive 
functioning and externalizing behavioral problems, with both effects mediated by 
late childhood adaptive functioning and internalizing behavioral problems; 
externalizing behavioral problems in early adolescence were predicted by early 
childhood internalizing behavioral problems with the effect mediated by late 
childhood externalizing behavioral problems. These developmental cascades 
obtained independent of child intelligence; child age and maternal education and 
social desirability were also considered but were not related to any outcome 
variables. The findings suggest that strategically timed and targeted 
interventions designed to address young children's behavioral problems may 
return investment in terms of an enhanced epidemiology of adaptively functioning 
teens.

DOI: 10.1080/10888691.2013.774875
PMCID: PMC3622712
PMID: 23585713


569. Vaccine. 2013 May 24;31(22):2551-7. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2013.03.057. Epub 
2013 Apr 12.

Measles, mumps and rubella (MMR) vaccination has no effect on cognitive 
development in children - the results of the Polish prospective cohort study.

Mrozek-Budzyn D(1), Kiełtyka A, Majewska R, Augustyniak M.

Author information:
(1)Epidemiology and Preventive Medicine, Jagiellonian University Medical 
College, Kopernika 7a, 31-034 Krakow, Poland. dorota.mrozek-budzyn@uj.edu.pl

OBJECTIVES: The aim of the study was to examine the hypothesis that MMR exposure 
has a negative influence on cognitive development in children. Furthermore, MMR 
was compared to single measles vaccine to determine the potential difference of 
these vaccines safety regarding children's cognitive development.
METHODS: The prospective birth cohort study with sample consisted of 369 infants 
born in Krakow. Vaccination history against measles (date and the type of the 
vaccine) was extracted from physicians' records. Child development was assessed 
using the Bayley Scales of Infant Development (BSID-II) up to 3rd year of life, 
Raven test in 5th and 8th year and Wechsler (WISC-R) in 6th and 7th year. Data 
on possible confounders came from mothers' interview, medical records and 
analyses of lead and mercury level at birth and at the end of 5th year of life. 
Linear and logistic regression models adjusted for potential confounders were 
used to assess the association.
RESULTS: No significant differences in cognitive and intelligence tests results 
were observed between children vaccinated with MMR and those not vaccinated up 
to the end of the 2nd year of life. Children vaccinated with MMR had 
significantly higher Mental BSID-II Index (MDI) in the 36th month than those 
vaccinated with single measles vaccine (103.8±10.3 vs. 97.2±11.2, p=0.004). 
Neither results of Raven test nor WISC-R were significantly different between 
groups of children vaccinated with MMR and with single measles vaccine. After 
standardization to child's gender, maternal education, family economical status, 
maternal IQ, birth order and passive smoking all developmental tests were 
statistically insignificant.
CONCLUSION: The results suggest that there is no relationship between MMR 
exposure and children's cognitive development. Furthermore, the safety of triple 
MMR is the same as the single measles vaccine with respect to cognitive 
development.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2013.03.057
PMCID: PMC3684783
PMID: 23588083 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


570. Beijing Da Xue Xue Bao Yi Xue Ban. 2013 Apr 18;45(2):303-6.

[Peripheral nervous impairment in a patient with methylmalonic aciduria combined 
with hyperhomocysteinemia].

[Article in Chinese]

Ji TY(1), Zhang YH, Li FT, Qin J, Yang YL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Peking University First Hospital, Beijing 100034, 
China.

Methylmalonic aciduria combined homocysteinemia can cause multisystemic damages, 
mainly involving central nervous system, while the peripheral nerves are rarely 
impaired. A 10-year-old boy complained of weakness of both lower extremities for 
1 month. His past history showed mildly delay of intelligence as well as motor 
development. He had proteinuria when he was 3 years old and was diagnosed as 
epilepsy, which was controlled by sodium valproate when he was 8 years 6 months 
old. His physical examination showed attenuated bilateral knee jerk reflex, 
while the bilateral achilles tendon reflex was absent; the examination of 
sensation was normal and the bilateral Babinski sign was positive. The 
electromyography indicated injury of peripheral nerves. The elevated levels of 
urine methylmalonic aciduria and plasma homocysteinemia were consistent with the 
diagnosis of methylmalonic aciduria combined homocysteinemia. The pathogenic 
gene was confirmed as MMACHC, on which two pathogenic mutations (c.365A>T and 
c.609G>A) were detected. cblC defect was confirmed. He was treated by vitamin 
B12, calcium folinate, L-carnitine and betaine supplementation, and significant 
improvement was observed after 6 months. According to this case, we suggest that 
urinary organic acid analysis and plasma homocysteine should be performed in 
patients with unknown peripheral neuropathy, especially combined with 
multisystemic damages.Early diagnosis and treatment are important to improve the 
prognosis.

PMID: 23591356 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


571. Prenat Diagn. 2013 Sep;33(9):831-8. doi: 10.1002/pd.4131. Epub 2013 May 17.

Long-term health and development of children diagnosed prenatally with a de novo 
apparently balanced chromosomal rearrangement.

Sinnerbrink IB(1), Sherwen A, Meiser B, Halliday J, Amor DJ, Waters E, Rea F, 
Evans E, Rahman B, Kirk EP.

Author information:
(1)School of Women's and Children's Health, University of New South Wales, 
Kensington, NSW, 2051, Australia. Ingrid.sinnerbrink@swahs.health.nsw.gov.au

OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to determine if liveborn children with prenatally 
detected de novo apparently balanced chromosome rearrangements (ABCR) have more 
long-term health, developmental or behavioural concerns compared with children 
in a normal Australian population.
METHODS: This was a retrospective ascertainment of all liveborn children with 
prenatally detected de novo ABCRs in two Australian states over a 10-year period 
(1994-2003). Child health, development and behaviour were assessed by maternal 
report using standardised measures; educational ability and achievement were 
measured by direct child assessment. Data were compared with relevant population 
norms, and one sample t-test performed to test for statistical differences.
RESULTS: Of 39 eligible cases, 16 (41%) participated in the study. One child 
(6%) was born with a congenital anomaly, and two children (12.5%) reported a 
chronic health concern. Compared with population norms, no significant 
differences were observed with respect to intelligence, mental health, child 
development and educational ability; children had significantly higher scores 
indicative of better functioning on bodily pain, social-emotional behaviour and 
physical functioning. No child satisfied the criteria for having a special 
health care need.
CONCLUSION: Children in this study with a prenatally detected de novo ABCR have 
similar long-term health, developmental and behavioural outcomes compared with 
population norms.

© 2013 John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/pd.4131
PMID: 23592151 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


572. PLoS One. 2013 Apr 4;8(4):e60542. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0060542. Print 2013.

The molecular genetic architecture of self-employment.

van der Loos MJ(1), Rietveld CA, Eklund N, Koellinger PD, Rivadeneira F, 
Abecasis GR, Ankra-Badu GA, Baumeister SE, Benjamin DJ, Biffar R, Blankenberg S, 
Boomsma DI, Cesarini D, Cucca F, de Geus EJ, Dedoussis G, Deloukas P, Dimitriou 
M, Eiriksdottir G, Eriksson J, Gieger C, Gudnason V, Höhne B, Holle R, Hottenga 
JJ, Isaacs A, Järvelin MR, Johannesson M, Kaakinen M, Kähönen M, Kanoni S, 
Laaksonen MA, Lahti J, Launer LJ, Lehtimäki T, Loitfelder M, Magnusson PK, 
Naitza S, Oostra BA, Perola M, Petrovic K, Quaye L, Raitakari O, Ripatti S, 
Scheet P, Schlessinger D, Schmidt CO, Schmidt H, Schmidt R, Senft A, Smith AV, 
Spector TD, Surakka I, Svento R, Terracciano A, Tikkanen E, van Duijn CM, 
Viikari J, Völzke H, Wichmann HE, Wild PS, Willems SM, Willemsen G, van Rooij 
FJ, Groenen PJ, Uitterlinden AG, Hofman A, Thurik AR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Applied Economics, Erasmus School of Economics, Erasmus 
University Rotterdam, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. mvanderloos@ese.eur.nl

Economic variables such as income, education, and occupation are known to affect 
mortality and morbidity, such as cardiovascular disease, and have also been 
shown to be partly heritable. However, very little is known about which genes 
influence economic variables, although these genes may have both a direct and an 
indirect effect on health. We report results from the first large-scale 
collaboration that studies the molecular genetic architecture of an economic 
variable-entrepreneurship-that was operationalized using self-employment, a 
widely-available proxy. Our results suggest that common SNPs when considered 
jointly explain about half of the narrow-sense heritability of self-employment 
estimated in twin data (σ(g)(2)/σ(P)(2) = 25%, h(2) = 55%). However, a 
meta-analysis of genome-wide association studies across sixteen studies 
comprising 50,627 participants did not identify genome-wide significant SNPs. 58 
SNPs with p<10(-5) were tested in a replication sample (n = 3,271), but none 
replicated. Furthermore, a gene-based test shows that none of the genes that 
were previously suggested in the literature to influence entrepreneurship reveal 
significant associations. Finally, SNP-based genetic scores that use results 
from the meta-analysis capture less than 0.2% of the variance in self-employment 
in an independent sample (p≥0.039). Our results are consistent with a highly 
polygenic molecular genetic architecture of self-employment, with many genetic 
variants of small effect. Although self-employment is a multi-faceted, heavily 
environmentally influenced, and biologically distal trait, our results are 
similar to those for other genetically complex and biologically more proximate 
outcomes, such as height, intelligence, personality, and several diseases.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0060542
PMCID: PMC3617140
PMID: 23593239 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors would like to 
declare financial support by Philips Medical Systems for the Gutenberg Health 
Study (GHS). Philips Medical Systems provided the ultrasound machines for the 
GHS and had no role in the current research. Hence, funding by Philips Medical 
Systems does not alter the authors' adherence to all the PLOS ONE policies on 
sharing data and materials.


573. PLoS One. 2013 Apr 10;8(4):e61272. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0061272. Print 
2013.

Toxoplasmosis-associated difference in intelligence and personality in men 
depends on their Rhesus blood group but not ABO blood group.

Flegr J(1), Preiss M, Klose J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Faculty of Science, Charles University in Prague, 
Prague, Czech Republic. flegr@cesnet.cz

BACKGROUND: The parasite Toxoplasma gondii influences the behaviour of infected 
animals and probably also personality of infected humans. Subjects with a 
Rhesus-positive blood group are protected against certain behavioural effects 
associated with Toxoplasma infection, including the deterioration of reaction 
times and personality factor shift.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Here, we searched for differences in the 
toxoplasmosis-associated effects between RhD-positive and RhD-negative subjects 
by testing 502 soldiers with two personality tests and two intelligence tests. 
The infected subjects expressed lower levels of all potentially pathognomic 
factors measured with the N-70 questionnaire and in neurasthenia measured with 
NEO-PI-R. The RhD-positive, Toxoplasma-infected subjects expressed lower while 
RhD-negative, Toxoplasma-infected subjects expressed higher intelligence than 
their Toxoplasma-free peers. The observed Toxoplasma-associated differences were 
always larger in RhD-negative than in RhD-positive subjects.
CONCLUSIONS: RhD phenotype plays an important role in the strength and direction 
of association between latent toxoplasmosis and not only psychomotor 
performance, but also personality and intelligence.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0061272
PMCID: PMC3622667
PMID: 23593448 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


574. J Sleep Res. 2013 Oct;22(5):527-34. doi: 10.1111/jsr.12056. Epub 2013 Apr 17.

Habitual 'sleep credit' is associated with greater grey matter volume of the 
medial prefrontal cortex, higher emotional intelligence and better mental 
health.

Weber M(1), Webb CA, Deldonno SR, Kipman M, Schwab ZJ, Weiner MR, Killgore WD.

Author information:
(1)Social, Cognitive and Affective Neuroscience Laboratory, McLean Hospital, 
Harvard Medical School, Belmont, MA, USA.

Erratum in
    J Sleep Res. 2014 Jun;23(3):360.

In modern society, people often fail to obtain the amount of sleep that experts 
recommend for good health and performance. Insufficient sleep can lead to 
degraded cognitive performance and alterations in emotional functioning. 
However, most people also acknowledge that on a regular basis they obtain more 
sleep than they subjectively perceive they need at a minimum to stave off 
performance decrements, a construct we describe as subjective 'sleep credit'. 
Few people would contest the notion that getting more sleep is better, but data 
on both behavioural and neuroanatomical correlates of 'sleep credit' are 
surprisingly limited. We conducted a voxel-based morphometric study to assess 
cerebral grey matter correlates of habitually sleeping more than one's 
subjective requirements. We further tested whether these structural correlates 
are associated with perceived emotional intelligence and indices of 
psychopathology while controlling for age, gender, and total intracranial 
volume. In a sample of 55 healthy adults aged 18-45 years (28 males, 27 
females), whole-brain multiple regression showed that habitual subjective 'sleep 
credit' was correlated positively with grey matter volume within regions of the 
left medial prefrontal cortex and right orbitofrontal gyrus. Volumes were 
extracted and regressed against self-report emotion and psychopathology indices. 
Only grey matter volume of the medial prefrontal cortex cluster correlated with 
greater emotional intelligence and lower scores on several indices of 
psychopathology. Findings converge with previous evidence of the role of the 
medial prefrontal cortex in the relationship between sleep and emotional 
functioning, and suggest that behaviour and brain structure vary with habitual 
'sleep credit'.

© 2013 European Sleep Research Society.

DOI: 10.1111/jsr.12056
PMID: 23593990 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


575. Ann Neurol. 2013 Apr;73(4):520-8. doi: 10.1002/ana.23843. Epub 2013 Apr 17.

Elevated temperature and 6- to 7-year outcome of neonatal encephalopathy.

Laptook AR(1), McDonald SA, Shankaran S, Stephens BE, Vohr BR, Guillet R, 
Higgins RD, Das A; Extended Hypothermia Follow‐up Subcommittee of the National 
Institute of Child Health and Human Development Neonatal Research Network.

Collaborators: Jobe AH, Caplan MS, Oh W, Leach TM, Hensman AM, Noel L, Watson 
VE, Walsh MC, Fanaroff AA, Wilson-Costello DE, Bass N, Friedman HG, Newman NS, 
Siner BS, Schibler K, Donovan EF, Yolton K, Bridges K, Steichen JJ, Alexander B, 
Grisby C, Mincey HL, Hessling J, Gratton TL, Goldberg RN, Cotten C, Goldstein 
RF, Gustafson KE, Auten KJ, Foy KA, Fisher KA, Grimes S, Lohmeyer MB, Stoll BJ, 
Carlton DP, Adams-Chapman I, Jain L, Blackwelder AM, Hale EC, Fritz S, Wright 
LL, McClure EM, Archer SW, Poindexter BB, Lemons JA, Dusick AM, Appel DD, Bissey 
J, Herron DE, Miller LC, Richard L, Wilson LD, Poole W, Auman JO, Cunningham M, 
Hammond J, Hastings BK, Huitema CM, Newman JE, Petrie CM, Schaefer SE, 
Zaterka-Baxter KM, Van Meurs KP, Hintz SR, Stevenson DK, Ball M, DeAnda ME, 
Carlo WA, Ambalavanan N, Peralta-Carcelen M, Nelson KG, Collins MV, Cosby SS, 
Phillips VA, Smith LL, Vaucher YE, Fuller MG, West R, Finer NN, Kaegi D, 
Rasmussen MR, Arnell K, Henderson C, Rich W, Duara S, Bauer CR, Hiriart-Fajardo 
S, Allison M, Calejo M, Everett-Thomas SR, Eguaras SM, Gauthier S, Papile LA, 
Lacy CB, Phelps DL, Myers GJ, Guillet R, Hust D, Reubens LJ, Sánchez PJ, Broyles 
R, Laptook AR, Rosenfeld CR, Salhab WA, Heyne RJ, Boatman C, Dooley C, Hensley 
G, Hickman JF, Leps MH, Madison S, Miller NA, Morgan JS, Torres LE, Guzman A, 
Tyson JE, Kennedy KA, Akpa EG, Cluff PA, Franco CI, Lis AE, McDavid GE, Tate PL, 
Alaniz NI, Bradt PJ, Cedillo M, Dieterich S, Evans PW, Green C, Jiminez M, 
Major-Kincade T, Morris BH, Poundstone M, Reddoch S, Simmons MC, Whitely LL, 
Wright SL, Valdés LM, Pappas A, Johnson YR, Goldston LA, Bara R, Muran G, 
Kennedy D, Pruitt PJ, Ehrenkranz RA, Gettner P, Konstantino M, Poulsen J, Romano 
E, Williams J, DeLancy S.

Author information:
(1)Alpert Medical School of Brown University and Women & Infants Hospital of 
Rhode Island, Providence, RI.

OBJECTIVE: A study was undertaken to determine whether higher temperature after 
hypoxia-ischemia is associated with death or intelligence quotient (IQ)<70 at 6 
to 7 years among infants treated with intensive care without hypothermia.
METHODS: Control infants (noncooled, n=106) of the National Institute of Child 
Health and Human Development Neonatal Research Network hypothermia trial had 
serial esophageal and skin temperatures over 72 hours. Each infant's temperature 
was ranked to derive an average of the upper and lower quartile, and median of 
each site. Temperatures were used in logistic regressions to determine adjusted 
associations with death or IQ<70 at 6 to 7 years. Secondary outcomes were death, 
IQ<70, and moderate/severe cerebral palsy (CP). IQ and motor function were 
assessed with Wechsler Scales for Children and Gross Motor Function 
Classification System. Results are odds ratio (OR; per degree Celsius increment 
within the quartile or median) and 95% confidence interval (CI).
RESULTS: Primary outcome was available for 89 infants. At 6 to 7 years, death or 
IQ<70 occurred in 54 infants (37 deaths, 17 survivors with IQ<70) and 
moderate/severe CP in 15 infants. Death or IQ<70 was associated with the upper 
quartile average of esophageal (OR=7.3, 95% CI=2.0-26.3) and skin temperature 
(OR=3.5, 95% CI=1.2-10.4). CP was associated with the upper quartile average of 
esophageal (OR=12.5, 95% CI=1.02-155) and skin temperature (OR=10.3, 95% 
CI=1.3-80.2).
INTERPRETATION: Among noncooled infants of a randomized trial, elevated 
temperatures during the first postnatal days are associated with increased odds 
of a worse outcome at 6 to 7 years.

Copyright © 2012 American Neurological Association.

DOI: 10.1002/ana.23843
PMCID: PMC3720800
PMID: 23595408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


576. Exp Ther Med. 2013 Apr;5(4):1019-1024. doi: 10.3892/etm.2013.954. Epub 2013 Feb 
8.

Effects of carotid artery stenting on cognitive function in patients with mild 
cognitive impairment and carotid stenosis.

Cheng Y(1), Wang YJ, Yan JC, Zhou R, Zhou HD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology and Center for Clinical Neuroscience, Daping 
Hospital, Third Military Medical University, Daping, Chongqing 400042, P.R. 
China.

Carotid stenosis is known to be an independent risk factor in the transformation 
process of mild cognitive impairment (MCI) to dementia and is treated by carotid 
artery stenting (CAS); however, the effects of CAS on cognitive function are 
unclear. In this study, 240 patients were prospectively assigned to a CAS or 
control group according to patient preference and underwent detailed 
neuropsychological examinations (NPEs) before and 6 months after treatment. 
Cerebral perfusion was assessed with computed tomography perfusion (CTP). Among 
the 240 patients included in the study, 208 patients completed NPEs at baseline 
and 6 months after therapy. The patients in the two groups did not differ with 
regard to baseline characteristics, educational level, vascular risk factors 
(VRFs) and NPEs prior to therapy. Significant improvements in the Mini-Mental 
State Examination (MMSE; before, 24.6±1.7 vs. after, 24.8±1.9; P=0.016), 
Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MOCA; before, 23.7±1.7 vs. after, 24.1±2.0; 
P=0.006), Fuld Object Memory Evaluation (FOME; before, 13.8±2.2 vs. after, 
14.0±2.3; P=0.031) and Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-digital span (WAIS-DS; 
before, 6.7±2.1 vs. after, 6.9±2.3; P=0.040) were observed in the CAS group; 
however, improvements were not observed in the control group. Of the 84 patients 
in the CAS group who received CTP follow-up, 72 (86%) presented improvements in 
ipsilateral brain perfusion 6 months after the procedure; however, no 
improvement was observed in the control group. Close correlations were 
identified between the change in perfusion and the change in MMSE (r=0.575) and 
MOCA (r=0.574). CAS improves global cognitive function in patients with carotid 
stenosis and MCI and the improvement of cognition is closely related to the 
improvement of cerebral perfusion.

DOI: 10.3892/etm.2013.954
PMCID: PMC3627448
PMID: 23596467


577. Neuropsychol Dev Cogn B Aging Neuropsychol Cogn. 2014;21(2):129-45. doi: 
10.1080/13825585.2013.789096. Epub 2013 Apr 19.

The influence of inhibitory processes on affective theory of mind in young and 
old adults.

Mahy CE(1), Vetter N, Kühn-Popp N, Löcher C, Krautschuk S, Kliegel M.

Author information:
(1)a Department of Psychology , University of Geneva , Geneva , Switzerland.

The primary aim of this study was to examine the impact of an inhibition 
manipulation on the effect of age on theory of mind (ToM) in an ecologically 
valid, affective ToM task. Participants were 30 young and 30 old adults. The 
Cambridge Mindreading Face-Voice Battery was used to measure ToM; in addition, 
measures of fluid and crystallized intelligence were taken. Participants were 
subjected to three levels of inhibitory demand during ToM reasoning: emotional 
inhibition, non-emotional inhibition, and no inhibition. Old adults performed 
worse than young adults. The emotional and non-emotional inhibition conditions 
resulted in worse ToM performance compared to the no inhibition condition. There 
were no differences in the impact of the inhibition conditions on old and young 
adults. Regression analyses suggested that old adults' crystallized intelligence 
was a significant predictor of ToM performance, whereas it did not predict young 
adults' ToM performance. Results are discussed in terms of verbal ability as a 
possible compensatory mechanism in coping with verbal inhibitory load in ToM 
reasoning.

DOI: 10.1080/13825585.2013.789096
PMID: 23597271 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


578. Prog Biophys Mol Biol. 2013 Sep;113(1):181-215. doi: 
10.1016/j.pbiomolbio.2013.03.017. Epub 2013 Apr 15.

The role of pattern recognition in creative problem solving: a case study in 
search of new mathematics for biology.

Hong FT(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI 48201, USA. 
Electronic address: fthong@med.wayne.edu.

Erratum in
    Prog Biophys Mol Biol. 2014 Jan;114(1):1.

Rosen classified sciences into two categories: formalizable and unformalizable. 
Whereas formalizable sciences expressed in terms of mathematical theories were 
highly valued by Rutherford, Hutchins pointed out that unformalizable parts of 
soft sciences are of genuine interest and importance. Attempts to build 
mathematical theories for biology in the past century was met with modest and 
sporadic successes, and only in simple systems. In this article, a qualitative 
model of humans' high creativity is presented as a starting point to consider 
whether the gap between soft and hard sciences is bridgeable. Simonton's 
chance-configuration theory, which mimics the process of evolution, was modified 
and improved. By treating problem solving as a process of pattern recognition, 
the known dichotomy of visual thinking vs. verbal thinking can be recast in 
terms of analog pattern recognition (non-algorithmic process) and digital 
pattern recognition (algorithmic process), respectively. Additional concepts 
commonly encountered in computer science, operations research and artificial 
intelligence were also invoked: heuristic searching, parallel and sequential 
processing. The refurbished chance-configuration model is now capable of 
explaining several long-standing puzzles in human cognition: a) why novel 
discoveries often came without prior warning, b) why some creators had no ideas 
about the source of inspiration even after the fact, c) why some creators were 
consistently luckier than others, and, last but not least, d) why it was so 
difficult to explain what intuition, inspiration, insight, hunch, serendipity, 
etc. are all about. The predictive power of the present model was tested by 
means of resolving Zeno's paradox of Achilles and the Tortoise after one 
deliberately invoked visual thinking. Additional evidence of its predictive 
power must await future large-scale field studies. The analysis was further 
generalized to constructions of scientific theories in general. This approach is 
in line with Campbell's evolutionary epistemology. Instead of treating science 
as immutable Natural Laws, which already existed and which were just waiting to 
be discovered, scientific theories are regarded as humans' mental constructs, 
which must be invented to reconcile with observed natural phenomena. In this 
way, the pursuit of science is shifted from diligent and systematic (or random) 
searching for existing Natural Laws to firing up humans' imagination to 
comprehend Nature's behavioral pattern. The insights gained in understanding 
human creativity indicated that new mathematics that is capable of handling 
effectively parallel processing and human subjectivity is sorely needed. The 
past classification of formalizability vs. non-formalizability was made in 
reference to contemporary mathematics. Rosen's conclusion did not preclude 
future inventions of new biology-friendly mathematics.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pbiomolbio.2013.03.017
PMID: 23597605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


579. Forensic Sci Int. 2013 May 10;228(1-3):8-14. doi: 
10.1016/j.forsciint.2013.01.036. Epub 2013 Mar 5.

Lab-on-a-chip screening of methamphetamine and pseudoephedrine in samples from 
clandestine laboratories.

Lloyd A(1), Russell M, Blanes L, Doble P, Roux C.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Forensic Science, University of Technology, Sydney, PO Box 123, 
Broadway, NSW 2007, Australia.

The clandestine manufacture of methamphetamine in New Zealand predominantly 
involves the reduction of pseudoephedrine, extracted from pharmaceutical 
preparations, using hydrogen iodide. This method of illicit manufacture leaves a 
variety of materials at the scene that are a rich source of information. 
Efficient processing and preliminary identification of extraction and reaction 
mixtures, precursors and products is essential to minimise exposure to potential 
hazardous materials and to provide investigative and intelligence information. 
In this study, we employed a portable lab-on-a-chip instrument for the rapid and 
cost effective screening of methamphetamine, pseudoephedrine and ephedrine in a 
variety of sample types found in typical clandestine laboratory scenarios.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.forsciint.2013.01.036
PMID: 23597732


580. Forensic Sci Int. 2013 May 10;228(1-3):21-7. doi: 
10.1016/j.forsciint.2013.02.004. Epub 2013 Mar 6.

Behavioural aspects of terrorism.

Leistedt SJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Psychiatric Research, Forensic Psychiatry Unit-Department of 
Psychiatry, Erasme Academic Hospital-Université Libre de Bruxelles (ULB), Route 
de Lennik, 808, 1070 Brussels, Belgium. samuel.leistedt@erasme.ulb.ac.be

Behavioural and social sciences are useful in collecting and analysing 
intelligence data, understanding terrorism, and developing strategies to combat 
terrorism. This article aims to examine the psychopathological concepts of 
terrorism and discusses the developing roles for behavioural scientists. A 
systematic review was conducted of studies investigating behavioural aspects of 
terrorism. These studies were identified by a systematic search of databases, 
textbooks, and a supplementary manual search of references. Several fundamental 
concepts were identified that continue to influence the motives and the majority 
of the behaviours of those who support or engage in this kind of specific 
violence. Regardless of the psychological aspects and new roles for 
psychiatrists, the behavioural sciences will continue to be called upon to 
assist in developing better methods to gather and analyse intelligence, to 
understand terrorism, and perhaps to stem the radicalisation process.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.forsciint.2013.02.004
PMID: 23597734 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


581. Clin Endocrinol (Oxf). 2013 Aug;79(2):152-62. doi: 10.1111/cen.12227. Epub 2013 
May 21.

Maternal hypothyroxinemia and effects on cognitive functioning in childhood: how 
and why?

Henrichs J(1), Ghassabian A, Peeters RP, Tiemeier H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Developmental Psychology, Tilburg School of Social and 
Behavioral Sciences, Tilburg University, Tilburg, the Netherlands.

Exposure to maternal hypothyroxinemia during pregnancy, which is characterized 
by low free T4 but normal thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) levels, can 
negatively affect the foetus. This review provides an overview of present 
findings concerning the association between maternal hypothyroxinemia during 
pregnancy and childhood cognitive functioning. Possible causes of maternal 
hypothyroxinemia and potential mechanisms underlying this association are also 
discussed. Clinical and epidemiological studies suggest that maternal 
hypothyroxinemia in the first half of pregnancy but not later in pregnancy 
impairs cognitive development in infancy and childhood. Animal models confirm 
that the first half of pregnancy may constitute a sensitive period in which 
maternal hypothyroxinemia alters neurogenesis and causes neuronal migration 
errors in the developing foetal brain. However, observational studies in humans 
cannot demonstrate causality of the association between hypothyroxinemia and 
neurodevelopment. In the only completed randomized trial of antenatal thyroid 
screening and subsequent levothyroxine treatment of mild maternal subclinical 
thyroid dysfunction, including hypothyroxinemia, the interventions did not 
affect offspring intelligence quotient (IQ). More randomized trials are needed 
investigating whether screening for hypothyroxinemia and its treatment earlier 
in the first trimester of pregnancy can improve child cognitive functioning or 
prevent neurodevelopmental changes. Long-term observational studies should 
identify molecular, neuroanatomical and neurophysiological factors involved in 
the association between maternal hypothyroxinemia and offspring cognitive 
functioning. Information on such mechanisms can be used for the development of 
innovative prevention and intervention studies that address maternal 
hypothyroxinemia and its potential consequences.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cen.12227
PMID: 23600900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


582. J Neurosurg Pediatr. 2013 Jun;11(6):727-33. doi: 10.3171/2013.3.PEDS12476. Epub 
2013 Apr 19.

Franc D. Ingraham and the genesis of pediatric neurosurgery.

Lohani S(1), Cohen AR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Boston Children's Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, MA 02115, USA.

In 1929, Franc D. Ingraham, Harvey Cushing's protégé, established the first 
pediatric neurosurgical unit in the world at Boston Children's Hospital and 
dedicated his career to the neurosurgical care of children. He trained with both 
Cushing and Dandy and spent 1 year working in Oxford with Sherrington, who 
considered Ingraham to be the finest operative surgeon ever to work in his 
laboratory. Ingraham was instrumental in developing novel treatments, which he 
compiled in his classic book, Neurosurgery of Infancy and Childhood. Although he 
was modest and shy, Ingraham loved to entertain children with magic and enjoyed 
photography in and out of the operating room. Unfortunately, his career was 
plagued by personal illness, and he died young in 1965 at the age of 67. Despite 
his prolific 36-year neurosurgical career, Ingraham remained an associate 
professor at Harvard at his retirement. To recognize his remarkable 
contributions, Harvard established an endowed chair in his name in 1967. 
Ingraham was a pioneer and a leader in the development of pediatric neurosurgery 
by virtue of his imagination, intelligence, and ability to lead and inspire 
others. Cushing has come to be regarded as the founder of neurosurgery. It is 
fair to conclude that Ingraham, his disciple, is the founder of pediatric 
neurosurgery.

DOI: 10.3171/2013.3.PEDS12476
PMID: 23601016 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


583. Prog Neuropsychopharmacol Biol Psychiatry. 2013 Aug 1;45:165-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.pnpbp.2013.04.008. Epub 2013 Apr 16.

Neural correlate of impulsivity in subjects at ultra-high risk for psychosis.

Lee TY(1), Kim SN, Jang JH, Shim G, Jung WH, Shin NY, Kwon JS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, 
Republic of Korea.

OBJECTIVE: Impulsivity is one of the most commonly reported behavioral 
characteristics of patients with schizophrenia. Although there is accumulating 
evidence regarding behavioral problems in individuals at ultra-high risk (UHR) 
for psychosis, as yet, no study has reported on impulsivity in this population. 
The aim of the present study was to assess impulsivity in UHR subjects and to 
investigate the associated gray matter correlates.
METHOD: This study included 32 UHR subjects and 32 age- and gender-matched 
healthy controls (HCs). The Barratt Impulsiveness Scale version-11 (BIS-11) was 
employed to assess impulsivity. Differences between the groups in gray matter 
volume in the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), dorsolateral prefrontal cortex 
(DLPFC), and orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) were assessed. Then, a correlational 
analysis between the BIS-11 scores and significant clusters of gray matter 
volume was conducted in UHR subjects.
RESULTS: UHR subjects were more impulsive than HC subjects in terms of attention 
(t = 3.5187, p<0.01), motor (t = 3.1751, p<0.01), and non-planning (t = 4.4154, 
p<0.01) scores. The gray matter volume of the ACC was negatively correlated with 
the motor (r = -0.472, p<0.01) and non-planning (r = -0.354, p = 0.04) scores of 
the BIS-11 in UHR subjects.
CONCLUSION: These results suggest that impulsivity in UHR subjects may reflect 
altered integrated conflict processing, which likely stems from abnormalities in 
the ACC, rather than altered reward/punishment processing or executive control.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pnpbp.2013.04.008
PMID: 23603064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


584. Acta Med Iran. 2013 Apr 6;51(3):185-8.

Emotional intelligence of medical residents of Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences.

Ghajarzadeh M(1), Mohammadifar M.

Author information:
(1)Brain and Spinal Injury Research Center, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran. m.ghajarzadeh@gmail.com.

Comment in
    Acta Med Iran. 2015 Mar;53(3):198.

Nowadays, educators pay attention to emotional intelligence which is defined as 
the ability to monitor and explain one's own and other's emotional experience 
and feelings to differentiate between them as well as applying necessary 
information for determining thoughts and actions. The goal of this study was to 
determine emotional intelligence of medical residents of Tehran University of 
Medical Sciences. By means of two stage cluster sampling, 98 medical residents 
of Tehran University of Medical Sciences were selected. Participants were asked 
to fill valid and reliable Persian version of Emotional Quotient inventory 
(EQ-i) questionnaire which had been developed due to Bar-On model. Seventy two 
filled-up questionnaires were returned (RR=73%). Mean EI score of all 
participants was 319.94 ± 32.4. Mean EI score was not significantly different 
between male and female also, single and married participants. EI did not differ 
significantly in residents in respect to their discipline. Mean responsibility 
subscale differ significantly between male and female participants (P=0.008). 
Multiple regression analysis showed that happiness subscale is a predictive 
factor for total EI score (B=-0.32, P=0.009). Responsibility subscale differed 
significantly between men and women participants and happiness subscale was a 
good predictor for emotional intelligence score. These factors should be 
considered in education of medical residents.

PMID: 23605604 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


585. RETRACTED ARTICLE

Asian Pac J Trop Med. 2013 May 13;6(5):410-2. doi: 
10.1016/S1995-7645(13)60049-8.

Longitudinal follow-up of patients with mild traumatic brain injury by magnetic 
resonance spectroscopic technique.

Chen J(1), Guo ZY, Zhang Y, Liang QZ, Liao HY, Su WR, Tang QY, Fu SX, Chen CX, 
Han XJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Haikou People's Hospital, Renming Road 43, Haikou 
570208, China.

Retraction in
    Asian Pac J Trop Med. 10.1016/S1995-7645(13)60049-8.

OBJECTIVE: To explore the changes in the concentrations of neural markers 
immediately or several months after mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI).
METHODS: The metabolic markers of neurons in white matter tissues above the 
lateral ventricle were semi-quantitatively determined by employing 1H magnetic 
resonance spectroscopic technique (1-H-MRS) in 30 clinically diagnosed cases of 
mTBI. At the same time, the neurological functions of the subjects, including 
ability to pay attention, memory, working memory and operational capacity etc 
were also assessed.
RESULTS: The patients were followed up for, on average, 13 days after mTBI and 
the results showed that Cre, PCre and Glx in the white matter tissues were 
significantly elevated in mTBI patients. 17 patients (57%) recovered from the 
injury during the follow-up (median was defined as the 40th post-trauma day). 
Comparison in terms of intelligence among groups revealed that the levels of 
neural markers of intelligence development was positively related with 
intelligence scores).
CONCLUSIONS: Change in Glx concentrations is most sensitive during trauma or in 
ensuing repairing processes, and might be different from normal status in the 
following months and Glx level tends to be accompanied with change in Cre, 
another energy-related marker.

Copyright © 2013 Hainan Medical College. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1995-7645(13)60049-8
PMID: 23608384


586. Behav Genet. 2013 Jul;43(4):267-73. doi: 10.1007/s10519-013-9594-x. Epub 2013 
Apr 23.

DNA evidence for strong genome-wide pleiotropy of cognitive and learning 
abilities.

Trzaskowski M(1), Davis OS, DeFries JC, Yang J, Visscher PM, Plomin R.

Author information:
(1)MRC Social, Genetic & Developmental Psychiatry Centre, Institute of 
Psychiatry, King's College London, DeCrespigny Park, Denmark Hill, London, SE5 
8AF, UK. maciej.trzaskowski@kcl.ac.uk

Very different neurocognitive processes appear to be involved in cognitive 
abilities such as verbal and non-verbal ability as compared to learning 
abilities taught in schools such as reading and mathematics. However, twin 
studies that compare similarity for monozygotic and dizygotic twins suggest that 
the same genes are largely responsible for genetic influence on these diverse 
aspects of cognitive function. It is now possible to test this evidence for 
strong pleiotropy using DNA alone from samples of unrelated individuals. Here we 
used this new method with 1.7 million DNA markers for a sample of 2,500 
unrelated children at age 12 to investigate for the first time the extent of 
pleiotropy between general cognitive ability (aka intelligence) and learning 
abilities (reading, mathematics and language skills). We also compared these DNA 
results to results from twin analyses using the same sample and measures. The 
DNA-based method revealed strong genome-wide pleiotropy: Genetic correlations 
were greater than 0.70 between general cognitive ability and language, reading, 
and mathematics, results that were highly similar to twin study estimates of 
genetic correlations. These results indicate that genes related to diverse 
neurocognitive processes have general rather than specific effects.

DOI: 10.1007/s10519-013-9594-x
PMCID: PMC3690183
PMID: 23609157 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


587. J Autism Dev Disord. 2013 Dec;43(12):2977-83. doi: 10.1007/s10803-013-1828-5.

Brief report: cognitive performance in autism and Asperger's syndrome: what are 
the differences?

Taddei S(1), Contena B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, Psychology and Psychiatry Unit, University of 
Florence, Via di San Salvi, 12, Pad. 26, 50135, Florence, Italy, 
stefano.taddei@psico.unifi.it.

Autism spectrum disorders include autistic and Asperger's Syndrome (AS), often 
studied in terms of executive functions (EF), with controversial results. Using 
Planning Attention Simultaneous Successive theory (PASS; Das et al. in 
Assessment of cognitive processes: the PASS theory of intelligence. Allyn and 
Bacon, Boston, MA, 1994), this research compares the cognitive profiles obtained 
by the Cognitive Assessment System (CAS; Naglieri and Das in Cognitive 
assessment system. Riverside, Itasca, IL, 1997) of 15 subjects with typical 
development, 18 with autistic disorder and 20 with AS. Results highlight lower 
profiles for children with autistic and AS compared with typical development and 
even lower Planning and Attention processes for the group with autistic 
disorders than that with Asperger's. Subjects with Asperger's diagnosis do not 
differ from those with typical development as regards Simultaneous and 
Successive processes. Results are discussed in the light of current studies 
about EF.

DOI: 10.1007/s10803-013-1828-5
PMID: 23609958 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


588. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2013 May 7;110(19):7613-8. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.1219674110. Epub 2013 Apr 22.

Limits in decision making arise from limits in memory retrieval.

Giguère G(1), Love BC.

Author information:
(1)Département de Psychologie, Université de Montréal, Montreal, QC, Canada H3C 
3J7.

Some decisions, such as predicting the winner of a baseball game, are 
challenging in part because outcomes are probabilistic. When making such 
decisions, one view is that humans stochastically and selectively retrieve a 
small set of relevant memories that provides evidence for competing options. We 
show that optimal performance at test is impossible when retrieving information 
in this fashion, no matter how extensive training is, because limited retrieval 
introduces noise into the decision process that cannot be overcome. One 
implication is that people should be more accurate in predicting future events 
when trained on idealized rather than on the actual distributions of items. In 
other words, we predict the best way to convey information to people is to 
present it in a distorted, idealized form. Idealization of training 
distributions is predicted to reduce the harmful noise induced by immutable 
bottlenecks in people's memory retrieval processes. In contrast, machine 
learning systems that selectively weight (i.e., retrieve) all training examples 
at test should not benefit from idealization. These conjectures are strongly 
supported by several studies and supporting analyses. Unlike machine systems, 
people's test performance on a target distribution is higher when they are 
trained on an idealized version of the distribution rather than on the actual 
target distribution. Optimal machine classifiers modified to selectively and 
stochastically sample from memory match the pattern of human performance. These 
results suggest firm limits on human rationality and have broad implications for 
how to train humans tasked with important classification decisions, such as 
radiologists, baggage screeners, intelligence analysts, and gamblers.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1219674110
PMCID: PMC3651451
PMID: 23610402 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


589. Anat Rec (Hoboken). 2013 Jun;296(6):979-92. doi: 10.1002/ar.22704. Epub 2013 Apr 
24.

Morphology and variation in porpoise (Cetacea: Phocoenidae) cranial endocasts.

Racicot RA(1), Colbert MW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geology and Geophysics, Yale University, New Haven, 
Connecticut, USA. rachel.racicot@yale.edu

Evolution of endocranial anatomy in cetaceans is important from the perspective 
of echolocation ability, intelligence, social structure, and alternate pathways 
for circulation to the brain. Apart from the importance of studying brain shape 
and asymmetries as they relate to aspects of behavior and intelligence, cranial 
endocasts can show a close correspondence to the hydrostatic shape of the brain 
in life, and canals and grooves can preserve features of the circulatory system. 
Multiple samples are rarely available for studies of individual variation, 
especially in fossils, thus a first step in quantifying variation and making 
comparisons with fossils is made possible with CT scans of osteological 
specimens. This study presents a series of high-resolution X-ray CT-derived 
cranial endocasts of six extant species of Phocoenidae, a clade including some 
of the smallest and one of the rarest cetaceans. Degree of gyrification varies 
interspecifically and intraspecifically, possibly resulting from variation in 
preservation of the ossified meninges. Computed tomographic data show that 
visually assessed asymmetry in the cranial endocasts is not correlated with 
volumetric measurements, but nonetheless may reflect torsion in the skull's 
shape such that the right cerebral and cerebellar hemispheres extend rostrally 
and laterally more than the left. Vasculature and canals are similar to other 
described cetacean species, but the hypophyseal casts are unusual. Similarities 
between brain shape and volume measurements in the different species can be 
attributed to paedomorphism and concomitant variation in ecological preferences. 
This may explain similarities Neophocaena phocaenoides and Phocoena sinus share 
with the juvenile Phocoena phocoena specimen studied.

Copyright © 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ar.22704
PMID: 23613315 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


590. PLoS One. 2013 Apr 17;8(4):e61798. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0061798. Print 
2013.

Remote guidance of untrained turtles by controlling voluntary instinct behavior.

Lee S(1), Kim CH, Kim DG, Kim HG, Lee PS, Myung H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Korea Advanced Institute 
of Science and Technology, Yuseong-gu, Daejeon, Republic of Korea.

Recently, several studies have been carried out on the direct control of 
behavior in insects and other lower animals in order to apply these behaviors to 
the performance of specialized tasks in an attempt to find more efficient means 
of carrying out these tasks than artificial intelligence agents. While most of 
the current methods cause involuntary behavior in animals by electronically 
stimulating the corresponding brain area or muscle, we show that, in turtles, it 
is also possible to control certain types of behavior, such as movement 
trajectory, by evoking an appropriate voluntary instinctive behavior. We have 
found that causing a particular behavior, such as obstacle avoidance, by 
providing a specific visual stimulus results in effective control of the 
turtle's movement. We propose that this principle may be adapted and expanded 
into a general framework to control any animal behavior as an alternative to 
robotic probes.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0061798
PMCID: PMC3629119
PMID: 23613939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


591. Neural Regen Res. 2013 Apr 25;8(12):1146-50. doi: 
10.3969/j.issn.1673-5374.2013.12.010.

Is Goshinjo therapy effective in cognitive impairment after severe traumatic 
brain injury?

Hashimoto K(1), Kida K(2).

Author information:
(1)Hashimoto Cognitive Research Institute, Tokyo 156-0051, Japan.
(2)Kihodo Head Office Clinic, Tokyo 151-0065, Japan.

We report a case of a 21-year-old man who had severe traumatic brain injury as a 
result of an accident at the age of 16 years. Two years and 4 months after the 
trauma, at the age of 19 years, he still had severe right hemiplegia and 
cognitive dysfunction including aphasia and attention and memory disturbance. 
Conventional rehabilitation programs could not resolve all of the 
neuropsychological problems. He started receiving Goshinjo therapy over a period 
of 22 months. Following the therapy, significant improvements in verbal 
intelligence quotient (assessed by the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Third 
Edition) and attention and concentration function (using the Wechsler Memory 
Scale-Revised), and remission of traumatic epilepsy were observed. Goshinjo 
therapy is suspected to be effective in the treatment of cognitive dysfunction 
in the chronic stage after severe traumatic brain injury.

DOI: 10.3969/j.issn.1673-5374.2013.12.010
PMCID: PMC4145896
PMID: 25206409

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest: Kisho Kida is the founder 
and head executive of the Japan Kihodo Association and developed Goshinjo 
therapy.


592. Anxiety Stress Coping. 2013;26(6):595-609. doi: 10.1080/10615806.2013.777045. 
Epub 2013 Apr 24.

Personal factors related to compassion fatigue in health professionals.

Zeidner M(1), Hadar D, Matthews G, Roberts RD.

Author information:
(1)a Laboratory for Research in Personality, Emotions, and Individual 
Differences , University of Haifa , Israel.

This study examines the role of some personal and professional factors in 
compassion fatigue among health-care professionals. Research participants 
included 182 (89 mental and 93 medical) health-care professionals who completed 
an assessment battery measuring compassion fatigue, emotion management, trait 
emotional intelligence, situation-specific coping strategies, and negative 
affect. Major findings indicate that both self-report "trait" emotional 
intelligence and ability-based emotion management are inversely associated with 
compassion fatigue; adaptive coping is inversely related to compassion fatigue; 
and differences exist between mental and medical professions in emotional 
intelligence, coping strategies, and negative affect. Furthermore, 
problem-focused coping appears to mediate the association between trait 
emotional intelligence and compassion fatigue. These findings shed light on the 
role of emotional factors in compassion fatigue among health-care professionals. 
Beyond enhancing our knowledge of practitioners' professional quality of life, 
the current study serves as a basis for the early identification of groups of 
practitioners at risk for compassion fatigue.

DOI: 10.1080/10615806.2013.777045
PMID: 23614527 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


593. Arch Clin Neuropsychol. 2013 Jun;28(4):331-47. doi: 10.1093/arclin/act020. Epub 
2013 Apr 24.

Working memory training in old age: an examination of transfer and maintenance 
effects.

Borella E(1), Carretti B, Zanoni G, Zavagnin M, De Beni R.

Author information:
(1)Departement of General Psychology, University of Padova, Padova, Italy. 
erika.borella@unipd.it

The present study examined the efficacy of a verbal working memory (WM) training 
program in old-old individuals (over 75 years of age). Thirty-six adults aged 
75-87 took part in the study: 18 were randomly assigned to receive training and 
the remainder served as active controls. Specific training gains in a verbal WM 
task (criterion task), and transfer effects on measures of visuospatial WM, 
short-term memory, inhibition, processing speed, and fluid intelligence were 
examined. The trained old-old adults performed better than the controls in the 
criterion task, and this benefit persisted after 8 months; they also showed an 
increase in the efficiency of inhibitory mechanisms at follow-up compared with 
pretest. The results of this study suggest that the present WM training program 
produces benefits maintained over time even in old-old adults. These findings 
confirm that there is still room for plasticity in the basic mechanisms of 
cognition in advance old age.

DOI: 10.1093/arclin/act020
PMID: 23615578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


594. Sensors (Basel). 2013 Apr 24;13(5):5406-47. doi: 10.3390/s130505406.

A survey of body sensor networks.

Lai X(1), Liu Q, Wei X, Wang W, Zhou G, Han G.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Electronic Information and Electrical Engineering, Dalian 
University of Technology, No. 2 Linggong Road, Ganjingzi District, Dalian 
116024, China. laixiaochen@dlut.edu.cn

The technology of sensor, pervasive computing, and intelligent information 
processing is widely used in Body Sensor Networks (BSNs), which are a branch of 
wireless sensor networks (WSNs). BSNs are playing an increasingly important role 
in the fields of medical treatment, social welfare and sports, and are changing 
the way humans use computers. Existing surveys have placed emphasis on the 
concept and architecture of BSNs, signal acquisition, context-aware sensing, and 
system technology, while this paper will focus on sensor, data fusion, and 
network communication. And we will introduce the research status of BSNs, the 
analysis of hotspots, and future development trends, the discussion of major 
challenges and technical problems facing currently. The typical research 
projects and practical application of BSNs are introduced as well. BSNs are 
progressing along the direction of multi-technology integration and 
intelligence. Although there are still many problems, the future of BSNs is 
fundamentally promising, profoundly changing the human-machine relationships and 
improving the quality of people's lives.

DOI: 10.3390/s130505406
PMCID: PMC3690007
PMID: 23615581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


595. Cancer Metastasis Rev. 2013 Dec;32(3-4):403-21. doi: 10.1007/s10555-013-9431-y.

Systems biology of cancer: entropy, disorder, and selection-driven evolution to 
independence, invasion and "swarm intelligence".

Tarabichi M(1), Antoniou A, Saiselet M, Pita JM, Andry G, Dumont JE, Detours V, 
Maenhaut C.

Author information:
(1)IRIBHM, Brussels, Belgium.

Our knowledge of the biology of solid cancer has greatly progressed during the 
last few years, and many excellent reviews dealing with the various aspects of 
this biology have appeared. In the present review, we attempt to bring together 
these subjects in a general systems biology narrative. It starts from the roles 
of what we term entropy of signaling and noise in the initial oncogenic events, 
to the first major transition of tumorigenesis: the independence of the tumor 
cell and the switch in its physiology, i.e., from subservience to the organism 
to its own independent Darwinian evolution. The development after independence 
involves a constant dynamic reprogramming of the cells and the emergence of a 
sort of collective intelligence leading to invasion and metastasis and seldom to 
the ultimate acquisition of immortality through inter-individual infection. At 
each step, the probability of success is minimal to infinitesimal, but the 
number of cells possibly involved and the time scale account for the relatively 
high occurrence of tumorigenesis and metastasis in multicellular organisms.

DOI: 10.1007/s10555-013-9431-y
PMCID: PMC3843370
PMID: 23615877 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


596. Algorithms Mol Biol. 2013 Apr 24;8(1):15. doi: 10.1186/1748-7188-8-15.

An enhancement of binary particle swarm optimization for gene selection in 
classifying cancer classes.

Mohamad MS(1), Omatu S, Deris S, Yoshioka M, Abdullah A, Ibrahim Z.

Author information:
(1)Artificial Intelligence and Bioinformatics Research Group, Faculty of 
Computer Science and Information Systems, Universiti Teknologi Malaysia, Skudai, 
Johor, 81310, Malaysia. saberi@utm.my.

BACKGROUND: Gene expression data could likely be a momentous help in the 
progress of proficient cancer diagnoses and classification platforms. Lately, 
many researchers analyze gene expression data using diverse computational 
intelligence methods, for selecting a small subset of informative genes from the 
data for cancer classification. Many computational methods face difficulties in 
selecting small subsets due to the small number of samples compared to the huge 
number of genes (high-dimension), irrelevant genes, and noisy genes.
METHODS: We propose an enhanced binary particle swarm optimization to perform 
the selection of small subsets of informative genes which is significant for 
cancer classification. Particle speed, rule, and modified sigmoid function are 
introduced in this proposed method to increase the probability of the bits in a 
particle's position to be zero. The method was empirically applied to a suite of 
ten well-known benchmark gene expression data sets.
RESULTS: The performance of the proposed method proved to be superior to other 
previous related works, including the conventional version of binary particle 
swarm optimization (BPSO) in terms of classification accuracy and the number of 
selected genes. The proposed method also requires lower computational time 
compared to BPSO.

DOI: 10.1186/1748-7188-8-15
PMCID: PMC3847130
PMID: 23617960


597. Biopsychosoc Med. 2013 Apr 23;7(1):10. doi: 10.1186/1751-0759-7-10.

Psychosocial and cognitive function in children with nephrotic syndrome: 
association with disease and treatment variables.

Manti P(1), Giannakopoulos G(2), Giouroukou E(2), Georgaki-Angelaki H(3), 
Stefanidis CJ(4), Mitsioni A(4), Stergiou N(3), Mihas C(2), Chrousos GP(5), 
Magiakou MA(#)(5), Kolaitis G(#)(2).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Health and Caring Professions, 2nd Department of Nursing, 
Technological Educational Institution of Athens, Athens, Greece.
(2)Department of Child Psychiatry, "Aghia Sophia" Children's Hospital, 
University of Athens Medical School, Athens 11527, Greece.
(3)Department of Pediatric Nephrology, "Aghia Sophia" Children's Hospital, 
Athens, Greece.
(4)Department of Pediatric Nephrology, "P. & A. Kyriakou" Children's Hospital, 
Athens, Greece.
(5)Division of Endocrinology, Metabolism and Diabetes, 1st Department of 
Pediatrics, "Aghia Sophia" Children's Hospital, University of Athens Medical 
School, Athens, Greece.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: To investigate possible differences in emotional/behavioral problems 
and cognitive function in children with nephrotic syndrome compared to healthy 
controls and to examine the effect of disease-specific and steroid 
treatment-specific characteristics on the abovementioned variables.
METHODS: Forty-one patients with nephrotic syndrome (23 boys, age range: 
4.4-15.2 years) and 42 sex- and age-matched healthy control subjects (20 boys, 
age range: 4.1-13.4 years) were enrolled in the study. Disease (severity, age of 
diagnosis, duration) and steroid treatment (total duration, present 
methylprednisolone dose and duration of present dose) data were collected. In 
order to assess children's emotional/behavioral problems, the Child Behavior 
Checklist was administered. The Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children - Third 
Edition was administered to assess Full-Scale, Verbal, and Performance 
intelligence quotient (IQ) scores.
RESULTS: The patients presented with more internalizing problems (P = 0.015), 
including withdrawal (P = 0.012) and somatic complaints (P = 0 .011), but not 
more anxiety/depression or externalizing problems. A significant association was 
found between severity of disease and somatic complaints (P = 0.017) as well as 
externalizing problems (P = 0.030). Years of illness were significantly more in 
those presenting with abnormal anxiety/depression (P = 0.011). Duration of 
steroid medication was significantly higher among those presenting with abnormal 
anxiety/depression (P = 0.011) and externalizing problems (P = 0.039). IQ was 
not associated significantly with disease or steroid treatment variables.
CONCLUSIONS: Psychosocial factors and outcomes may be important correlates of 
children's nephrotic syndrome and potential targets of thorough assessment and 
treatment.

DOI: 10.1186/1751-0759-7-10
PMCID: PMC3652787
PMID: 23618427


598. J Med Toxicol. 2013 Jun;9(2):184-91. doi: 10.1007/s13181-013-0299-6.

Leveraging social networks for toxicovigilance.

Chary M(1), Genes N, McKenzie A, Manini AF.

Author information:
(1)Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.

The landscape of drug abuse is shifting. Traditional means of characterizing 
these changes, such as national surveys or voluntary reporting by frontline 
clinicians, can miss changes in usage the emergence of novel drugs. Delays in 
detecting novel drug usage patterns make it difficult to evaluate public policy 
aimed at altering drug abuse. Increasingly, newer methods to inform frontline 
providers to recognize symptoms associated with novel drugs or methods of 
administration are needed. The growth of social networks may address this need. 
The objective of this manuscript is to introduce tools for using data from 
social networks to characterize drug abuse. We outline a structured approach to 
analyze social media in order to capture emerging trends in drug abuse by 
applying powerful methods from artificial intelligence, computational 
linguistics, graph theory, and agent-based modeling. First, we describe how to 
obtain data from social networks such as Twitter using publicly available 
automated programmatic interfaces. Then, we discuss how to use artificial 
intelligence techniques to extract content useful for purposes of 
toxicovigilance. This filtered content can be employed to generate real-time 
maps of drug usage across geographical regions. Beyond describing the real-time 
epidemiology of drug abuse, techniques from computational linguistics can 
uncover ways that drug discussions differ from other online conversations. Next, 
graph theory can elucidate the structure of networks discussing drug abuse, 
helping us learn what online interactions promote drug abuse and whether these 
interactions differ among drugs. Finally, agent-based modeling relates online 
interactions to psychological archetypes, providing a link between epidemiology 
and behavior. An analysis of social media discussions about drug abuse patterns 
with computational linguistics, graph theory, and agent-based modeling permits 
the real-time monitoring and characterization of trends of drugs of abuse. These 
tools provide a powerful complement to existing methods of toxicovigilance.

DOI: 10.1007/s13181-013-0299-6
PMCID: PMC3657021
PMID: 23619711 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


599. J Public Health Res. 2013 May 31;2(1):17-21. doi: 10.4081/jphr.2013.e4. 
eCollection 2013 Apr 28.

Mining social media and web searches for disease detection.

Yang YT(1), Horneffer M(1), DiLisio N(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Administration and Policy, George Mason University , 
Fairfax, VA, USA.
(2)National Diabetes Information Clearinghouses , Bethesda, MD, USA.

Web-based social media is increasingly being used across different settings in 
the health care industry. The increased frequency in the use of the Internet via 
computer or mobile devices provides an opportunity for social media to be the 
medium through which people can be provided with valuable health information 
quickly and directly. While traditional methods of detection relied 
predominately on hierarchical or bureaucratic lines of communication, these 
often failed to yield timely and accurate epidemiological intelligence. New 
web-based platforms promise increased opportunities for a more timely and 
accurate spreading of information and analysis. This article aims to provide an 
overview and discussion of the availability of timely and accurate information. 
It is especially useful for the rapid identification of an outbreak of an 
infectious disease that is necessary to promptly and effectively develop public 
health responses. These web-based platforms include search queries, data mining 
of web and social media, process and analysis of blogs containing epidemic key 
words, text mining, and geographical information system data analyses. These new 
sources of analysis and information are intended to complement traditional 
sources of epidemic intelligence. Despite the attractiveness of these new 
approaches, further study is needed to determine the accuracy of blogger 
statements, as increases in public participation may not necessarily mean the 
information provided is more accurate.

DOI: 10.4081/jphr.2013.e4
PMCID: PMC4140326
PMID: 25170475

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest: the authors declare no 
potential conflict of interests.


600. J Adv Nurs. 2013 Dec;69(12):2717-25. doi: 10.1111/jan.12161. Epub 2013 Apr 28.

Emotional intelligence: enhancing values-based practice and compassionate care 
in nursing.

Rankin B(1).

Author information:
(1)School Of Nursing, University of Dundee, UK.

Comment in
    Evid Based Nurs. 2015 Jan;18(1):8.

AIMS: This article reports on a study which examined the predictive relationship 
between emotional intelligence and the following programme outcomes for student 
nurses: clinical practice performance; academic performance and retention.
BACKGROUND: In the context of concerns about a lack of compassionate care and 
amid calls for values-based selection procedures, emotional intelligence is 
emerging as a potential factor which might help the nursing profession to 
address some of these concerns.
DESIGN: The study employed a longitudinal survey.
METHODS: Student nurse applicants (n = 307) were asked to complete self-report 
scales to establish a total score and four subscores for emotional intelligence 
and these scores were matched to individual student's performance on the 
undergraduate programme. The scales were completed between June-September 2007 
and performance data were collected up until January 2009.
RESULTS: A significant predictive relationship was found between emotional 
intelligence and all three programme outcomes: practice performance; academic 
performance and retention, after controlling for prior academic achievement, age 
and gender. There was a zero Pearson correlation between prior academic 
attainment and overall emotional intelligence, indicating that both predict 
different outcomes.
CONCLUSIONS: Recruitment and selection procedures should consider emotional 
intelligence as a legitimate additional entrance criterion for student nurses 
and further research is required to examine the potential relationship between 
emotional intelligence and compassionate care.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jan.12161
PMID: 23621353 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


601. Epilepsia. 2013 May;54(5):866-70. doi: 10.1111/epi.12116.

Impulsivity and seizure frequency, but not cognitive deficits, impact social 
adjustment in patients with juvenile myoclonic epilepsy.

Moschetta S(1), Valente KD.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Clinical Neurophysiology, Institute and Department of 
Psychiatry, University of São Paulo, São Paulo, SP, Brazil.

PURPOSE: Despite growing evidence on the occurrence of poor psychosocial 
adjustment, to the moment there is no formal assessment of social adjustment 
(SA) using a validated instrument developed and standardized for this purpose in 
patients with juvenile myoclonic epilepsy (JME). We aimed to: (1) verify social 
adjustment in patients with JME with an objective scale and; (2) identify 
whether clinical variables, impulsiveness, and neuropsychological profile are 
associated with worse social adjustment.
METHODS: We prospectively evaluated 42 patients with an unequivocal diagnosis of 
JME and 42 controls. The inclusion criteria for patients and controls included 
age range from 16 to 40 years and an estimated intelligence quotient (IQ) 
ranging from 85 to 110. One trained neuropsychologist administered the scales 
and tests in a standard sequence. Social Adjustment was evaluated by The 
Self-Report Social Adjustment Scale (Weissman & Bothwell, 1976), a 42-item 
scale, measuring performance in seven major areas: work; social and leisure 
activities; relationship with extended family; marital role as a spouse; 
parental role; membership in the family unit; and economic adequacy. Impulsivity 
was assessed by using the Temperament and Character Inventory (Cloninger, 2000). 
Patients with JME and control subjects were evaluated with a comprehensive 
battery of neuropsychological tests evaluating executive and memory functions. 
We evaluated the age at onset; time from onset to seizure control with 
antiepileptic drugs (duration of epilepsy); seizure control; frequency of 
myoclonic seizures; frequency of generalized tonic-clonic GTC seizures; 
frequency of absence seizures; family history of epilepsy; family history of 
psychiatric disorders; and personal history of psychiatric disorders.
KEY FINDINGS: The score on Global Social Adjustment was worse than controls (p = 
0.001), especially on the factors: Work (p = 0.032); Extended Family (p = 
0.005). Higher Novelty Seeking (NS) scores were significantly correlated with 
worse on Global (p = 0.002); Work (p = 0.001) and Leisure (p = 0.003). There was 
no correlation between cognitive performance and Social Adjustment Scale (SAS) 
factors. Higher seizure frequency--myoclonic (p = 0.005) and GTC (p = 
0.035)--were correlated with higher scores on factor Work of SAS.
SIGNIFICANCE: Our findings suggest that patients with JME have worse social 
adjustment in two relevant aspects of their lives--work and familiar 
relationship. In this series of patients with JME, higher seizure frequency and 
impulsive traits, but not cognitive performance, were correlated with worse 
social adjustment.

Wiley Periodicals, Inc. © 2013 International League Against Epilepsy.

DOI: 10.1111/epi.12116
PMID: 23621878 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


602. Psychiatry Res. 2013 Aug 30;209(1):21-6. doi: 10.1016/j.psychres.2013.03.020. 
Epub 2013 Apr 23.

Negative symptom improvement during cognitive rehabilitation: results from a 
2-year trial of Cognitive Enhancement Therapy.

Eack SM(1), Mesholam-Gately RI, Greenwald DP, Hogarty SS, Keshavan MS.

Author information:
(1)School of Social Work, University of Pittsburgh, 2117 Cathedral of Learning, 
Pittsburgh, PA 15260, USA. sme12@pitt.edu

Cognitive rehabilitation has shown beneficial effects on cognition in patients 
with schizophrenia, which may also help to improve negative symptoms due to 
overlapping pathophysiology between these two domains. To better understand the 
possible relationship between these areas, we conducted an exploratory analysis 
of the effects of Cognitive Enhancement Therapy (CET) on negative symptoms. 
Early course schizophrenia outpatients (n=58) were randomized to 2 years of CET 
or an Enriched Supportive Therapy (EST) control condition. Results revealed 
significant and medium-sized (d=0.61) differential improvements favoring CET in 
overall negative symptoms, particularly social withdrawal, affective flattening, 
and motor retardation. Neurocognitive improvement was associated with reduced 
negative symptoms in CET, but not EST patients. No relationships were observed 
between improvements in emotion processing aspects of social cognition, as 
measured by the Mayer-Salovey-Caruso Emotional Intelligence Test, and negative 
symptoms. CET represents an effective cognitive rehabilitation intervention for 
schizophrenia that may also have benefits to negative symptoms. Future studies 
specifically designed to examine negative symptoms during the course of 
cognitive rehabilitation are needed.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2013.03.020
PMCID: PMC3732574
PMID: 23623449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


603. Epilepsy Res. 2013 Sep;106(1-2):257-63. doi: 10.1016/j.eplepsyres.2013.03.017. 
Epub 2013 Apr 25.

Hemispherectomy in adults patients with severe unilateral epilepsy and 
hemiplegia.

Liang S(1), Zhang G, Li Y, Ding C, Yu T, Wang X, Zhang Z, Jiang H, Zhang S, He 
S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Capital Epilepsy Therapy Center, First Affiliated 
Hospital of Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA) General Hospital, Beijing, 
China. liangsl_304@sina.com

OBJECTIVES: To study postoperative seizure control of hemispherectomy in adults 
with epilepsy and evaluate changes of movement and speech function, intelligence 
quotient (IQ) and quality of life (QOL) after hemispherectomy.
METHODS: We retrospectively analyzed 25 adults who presented severe unilateral 
epilepsy and hemiplegia and underwent anatomic or functional hemispherectomy in 
between 2006 and 2011. Surgical outcomes, including seizure-control at last 
follow-up, changes of aphasia quotient, hemiplegic side motor function, IQ and 
QOL from pre-operative to 2 years follow-up, were investigated. Results were 
statistically analyzed with SPSS 18.0.
RESULTS: Nine functional hemispherectomies and 16 anatomic hemispherectomies 
were performed. Ninety-two percent of patients were seizure-free and 8% 
displayed Engel II grade seizure control after the procedure. Impaired movement 
function was present in 9 (36%) adults' upper limbs and 5 (20%) patients' lower 
limbs. The patients with age at seizure onset <3 years showed improvement in 
mean motor function of the upper limbs. Impaired speech was seen in 7 patients 
with left hemispherectomies. There was an overall improvement in the mean 
aphasia quotient and significant difference was found in amount of change in 
aphasia quotients between patients with different ages of onset. All of the 
patients' postoperative scores of overall QOL, full IQ, verbal IQ and 
performance IQ improved compared with pretreatment scores and those improvements 
were not associated with patient's age at seizure onset or surgical approach. 
However, significant difference was found in change of verbal IQ between 
patients with right hemispherectomies and those with left hemispherectomies. 
Surgical complications included a single case of hydrocephalus, and 6 transient 
complications.
CONCLUSIONS: Hemispherectomy presented good seizure control and improvement in 
QOL and IQ, and impairment on motor and speech function were mild. Furthermore, 
patients with early seizure onset could maintain movement function of upper limb 
and speech function improvement. Therefore, it is worth pursuing hemispherectomy 
in well-selected adults with severe unilateral epilepsy and hemiplegia.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eplepsyres.2013.03.017
PMID: 23623848 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


604. Neuroimage. 2013 Oct 1;79:10-8. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2013.04.059. Epub 2013 
Apr 25.

Individual alpha peak frequency is related to latent factors of general 
cognitive abilities.

Grandy TH(1), Werkle-Bergner M, Chicherio C, Lövdén M, Schmiedek F, Lindenberger 
U.

Author information:
(1)Center for Lifespan Psychology, Max Planck Institute for Human Development, 
Berlin, Germany.

Some eighty years after the discovery of the human electroencephalogram (EEG) 
and its dominant rhythm, alpha (~10Hz), the neurophysiological functions and 
behavioral correlates of alpha oscillations are still under debate. Similarly, 
the biological mechanisms contributing to the general factor of intelligence, or 
g, have been under scrutiny for decades. Individual alpha frequency (IAF), a 
trait-like parameter of the EEG, has been found to correlate with individual 
differences in cognitive performance and cognitive abilities. Informed by 
large-scale theories of neural organization emphasizing the general functional 
significance of oscillatory activity, the present study replicates and extends 
these findings by testing the hypothesis that IAF is related to intelligence at 
the level of g, rather than at the level of specific cognitive abilities. 
Structural equation modeling allowed us to statistically control for measurement 
error when estimating the association between IAF and intellectual functioning. 
In line with our hypothesis, we found a statistically reliable and substantial 
correlation between IAF and g (r=.40). The magnitude of this correlation did not 
differ significantly between younger and older adults, and captured all of the 
covariation between IAF and the cognitive abilities of reasoning, memory, and 
perceptual speed. The observed association between IAF and g provides a 
parsimonious explanation for the commonly observed diffuse pattern of 
correlations between IAF and cognitive performance. We conclude that IAF is a 
marker of global architectural and functional properties of the human brain.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2013.04.059
PMID: 23624490 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


605. Environ Monit Assess. 2013 Oct;185(10):8239-58. doi: 10.1007/s10661-013-3170-y. 
Epub 2013 Apr 27.

Heat wave hazard classification and risk assessment using artificial 
intelligence fuzzy logic.

Keramitsoglou I(1), Kiranoudis CT, Maiheu B, De Ridder K, Daglis IA, Manunta P, 
Paganini M.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Astronomy, Astrophysics, Space Applications and Remote Sensing, 
National Observatory of Athens, Metaxa & Vassileos Pavlou Str, GR 152 36, Palea 
Penteli, Athens, Greece. ik@noa.gr

The average summer temperatures as well as the frequency and intensity of hot 
days and heat waves are expected to increase due to climate change. Motivated by 
this consequence, we propose a methodology to evaluate the monthly heat wave 
hazard and risk and its spatial distribution within large cities. A simple urban 
climate model with assimilated satellite-derived land surface temperature images 
was used to generate a historic database of urban air temperature fields. Heat 
wave hazard was then estimated from the analysis of these hourly air 
temperatures distributed at a 1-km grid over Athens, Greece, by identifying the 
areas that are more likely to suffer higher temperatures in the case of a heat 
wave event. Innovation lies in the artificial intelligence fuzzy logic model 
that was used to classify the heat waves from mild to extreme by taking into 
consideration their duration, intensity and time of occurrence. The monthly 
hazard was subsequently estimated as the cumulative effect from the individual 
heat waves that occurred at each grid cell during a month. Finally, monthly heat 
wave risk maps were produced integrating geospatial information on the 
population vulnerability to heat waves calculated from socio-economic variables.

DOI: 10.1007/s10661-013-3170-y
PMID: 23625352 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


606. Read Writ. 2013 May;26(5):681-704. doi: 10.1007/s11145-012-9383-6.

Effects of a phonological awareness program on English reading and spelling 
among Hong Kong Chinese ESL children.

Yeung SS(1), Siegel LS, Chan CK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychological Studies, The Hong Kong Institute of Education, 
Tai Po, Hong Kong SAR ; Faculty of Education, The University of Hong Kong, Pok 
Fu Lam, Hong Kong.

This study investigated the effects of a 12-week language-enriched phonological 
awareness instruction on 76 Hong Kong young children who were learning English 
as a second language. The children were assigned randomly to receive the 
instruction on phonological awareness skills embedded in vocabulary learning 
activities or comparison instruction which consisted of vocabulary learning and 
writing tasks but no direct instruction in phonological awareness skills. They 
were tested on receptive and expressive vocabulary, phonological awareness at 
the syllable, rhyme and phoneme levels, reading, and spelling in English before 
and after the program implementation. The results indicated that children who 
received the phonological awareness instruction performed significantly better 
than the comparison group on English word reading, spelling, phonological 
awareness at all levels and expressive vocabulary on the posttest when age, 
general intelligence and the pretest scores were controlled statistically. The 
findings suggest that phonological awareness instruction embedded in vocabulary 
learning activities might be beneficial to kindergarteners learning English as a 
second language.

DOI: 10.1007/s11145-012-9383-6
PMCID: PMC3632718
PMID: 23626405


607. J Clin Neurol. 2013 Apr;9(2):118-24. doi: 10.3988/jcn.2013.9.2.118. Epub 2013 
Apr 4.

Is High IQ Protective Against Cognitive Dysfunction in Narcoleptic Patients?

Yoon SM(1), Joo EY, Kim JY, Hwang KJ, Hong SB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Sleep Center, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan 
University School of Medicine, Samsung Biomedical Research Institute (SBRI), 
Seoul, Korea. ; Department of Psychology, The Catholic University of Korea, 
Seoul, Korea.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: The aims of this study were to elucidate the cognitive 
functions of narcoleptics and determine whether intelligence protects against 
cognitive dysfunction and depressive mood in these patients.
METHODS: Sixty-six subjects (33 narcoleptics, 33 controls) were administered a 
battery of neuropsychological tests and an individual standardized intelligence 
test. The cognitive functions of the narcoleptic patients and the healthy 
controls were compared, as were those of high-IQ and mid-to-low-IQ narcoleptic 
patients.
RESULTS: Narcoleptics exhibited significantly lower scores in the Corsi 
Block-Tapping Test forward and backward, and the digit symbol tests, and 
significantly higher Beck Depression Inventory scores than the controls. 
However, verbal attention, verbal-visual long-term memory, and executive 
function task scores did not differ significantly between patients and controls. 
The mid-to-low-IQ patient group had lower mean digit span backward test, 
phonemic and semantic fluency Controlled Oral Word Association Test and Korean 
version of the Boston Naming Test scores, and a higher total score and general 
depressive symptoms subscales Beck Depression Inventory score than the high-IQ 
patient group. However, controls exhibited no IQ-related differences in 
cognitive performance or depressive mood. Patients in the high-IQ group 
exhibited impaired visual attention and working memory as compared with 
controls.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings of the present study show that narcolepsy patients 
have deficits in visual attention and visual working memory, and tend to feel 
more general depressive symptoms but not somatic symptoms than their control, 
nonnarcoleptic counterparts. In addition, it appears that higher intelligence 
protects against cognitive dysfunction and depressive mood.

DOI: 10.3988/jcn.2013.9.2.118
PMCID: PMC3633189
PMID: 23626650

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no financial conflicts of 
interest.


608. Psicothema. 2013;25(2):199-205. doi: 10.7334/psicothema2012.175.

A predictive study of reading comprehension in third-grade Spanish students.

López-Escribano C(1), Elosúa de Juan MR, Gómez-Veiga I, García-Madruga JA.

Author information:
(1)Facultad de Educación, Universidad Complutense de Madrid, 28040 Madrid, 
Spain. carmenle@edu.ucm.es

BACKGROUND: The study of the contribution of language and cognitive skills to 
reading comprehension is an important goal of current reading research. However, 
reading comprehension is not easily assessed by a single instrument, as 
different comprehension tests vary in the type of tasks used and in the 
cognitive demands required.
METHOD: This study examines the contribution of basic language and cognitive 
skills (decoding, word recognition, reading speed, verbal and nonverbal 
intelligence and working memory) to reading comprehension, assessed by two tests 
utilizing various tasks that require different skill sets in third-grade 
Spanish-speaking students.
RESULTS: Linguistic and cognitive abilities predicted reading comprehension. A 
measure of reading speed (the reading time of pseudo-words) was the best 
predictor of reading comprehension when assessed by the PROLEC-R test. However, 
measures of word recognition (the orthographic choice task) and verbal working 
memory were the best predictors of reading comprehension when assessed by means 
of the DARC test.
CONCLUSION: These results show, on the one hand, that reading speed and word 
recognition are better predictors of Spanish language comprehension than reading 
accuracy. On the other, the reading comprehension test applied here serves as a 
critical variable when analyzing and interpreting results regarding this topic.

DOI: 10.7334/psicothema2012.175
PMID: 23628534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


609. Neuroreport. 2013 May 29;24(8):414-8. doi: 10.1097/WNR.0b013e328361315e.

Altered semantic integration in autism beyond language: a cross-modal 
event-related potentials study.

Ribeiro TC(1), Valasek CA, Minati L, Boggio PS.

Author information:
(1)Social and Cognitive Neuroscience Laboratory and Developmental Disorders 
Program, Center for Health and Biological Sciences, Mackenzie Presbyterian 
University, São Paulo, Brazil.

Autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) are characterized by impaired communication, 
particularly pragmatic and semantic language, resulting in verbal comprehension 
deficits. Semantic processing in these conditions has been studied extensively, 
but mostly limited only to linguistic material. Emerging evidence, however, 
suggests that semantic integration deficits may extend beyond the verbal domain. 
Here, we explored cross-modal semantic integration using visual targets preceded 
by musical and linguistic cues. Particularly, we have recorded the event-related 
potentials to evaluate whether the N400 and late positive potential (LPP) 
components, two widely studied electrophysiological markers of semantic 
processing, are differently sensitive to congruence with respect to typically 
developing children. Seven ASD patients and seven neurotypical participants 
matched by age, education and intelligence quotient provided usable data. 
Neuroelectric activity was recorded in response to visual targets that were 
related or unrelated to a preceding spoken sentence or musical excerpt. The N400 
was sensitive to semantic congruence in the controls but not the patients, 
whereas the LPP showed a complementary pattern. These results suggest that 
semantic processing in ASD children is also altered in the context of musical 
and visual stimuli, and point to a functional decoupling between the generators 
of the N400 and LPP, which may indicate delayed semantic processing. These novel 
findings underline the importance of exploring semantic integration across 
multiple modalities in ASDs and provide motivation for further investigation in 
large clinical samples.

DOI: 10.1097/WNR.0b013e328361315e
PMID: 23629689 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


610. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2013 May 14;110(20):8230-5. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.1222154110. Epub 2013 Apr 29.

Neural predictors of individual differences in response to math tutoring in 
primary-grade school children.

Supekar K(1), Swigart AG, Tenison C, Jolles DD, Rosenberg-Lee M, Fuchs L, Menon 
V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Stanford University School 
of Medicine, Stanford, CA 94304, USA. ksupekar@stanford.edu

Now, more than ever, the ability to acquire mathematical skills efficiently is 
critical for academic and professional success, yet little is known about the 
behavioral and neural mechanisms that drive some children to acquire these 
skills faster than others. Here we investigate the behavioral and neural 
predictors of individual differences in arithmetic skill acquisition in response 
to 8-wk of one-to-one math tutoring. Twenty-four children in grade 3 (ages 8-9 
y), a critical period for acquisition of basic mathematical skills, underwent 
structural and resting-state functional MRI scans pretutoring. A significant 
shift in arithmetic problem-solving strategies from counting to fact retrieval 
was observed with tutoring. Notably, the speed and accuracy of arithmetic 
problem solving increased with tutoring, with some children improving 
significantly more than others. Next, we examined whether pretutoring behavioral 
and brain measures could predict individual differences in arithmetic 
performance improvements with tutoring. No behavioral measures, including 
intelligence quotient, working memory, or mathematical abilities, predicted 
performance improvements. In contrast, pretutoring hippocampal volume predicted 
performance improvements. Furthermore, pretutoring intrinsic functional 
connectivity of the hippocampus with dorsolateral and ventrolateral prefrontal 
cortices and the basal ganglia also predicted performance improvements. Our 
findings provide evidence that individual differences in morphometry and 
connectivity of brain regions associated with learning and memory, and not 
regions typically involved in arithmetic processing, are strong predictors of 
responsiveness to math tutoring in children. More generally, our study suggests 
that quantitative measures of brain structure and intrinsic brain organization 
can provide a more sensitive marker of skill acquisition than behavioral 
measures.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1222154110
PMCID: PMC3657798
PMID: 23630286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


611. Front Psychol. 2013 Apr 25;4:191. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2013.00191. eCollection 
2013.

Short-term attentional perseveration associated with real-life creative 
achievement.

Zabelina DL(1), Beeman M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Northwestern University Evanston, IL, USA.

There are at least two competing hypotheses of how attention interacts with 
creative cognition, although they are not mutually exclusive. The first 
hypothesis is that highly creative people are particularly flexible at switching 
their attention - that is, they adaptively shift focus among different 
attentional levels using cognitive control. The second, less common, view is 
that creative people exhibit attentional persistence, or an ability for 
sustained attention. We suggest these two views need not be competing, as they 
may both operate, but on different time scales or on different components of 
creativity. In the present study we examined the role of attention in real-world 
creative achievement and in divergent thinking. In Experiment 1 participants 
with high and low real-world creative achievements identified whether the 
stimulus contained letters S or H within hierarchically constructed letters 
(e.g., large S made of small Es - global level; large E made up of small Ss - 
local level), which were presented in blocks of eight trials per level. In 
Experiment 2 participants with high, medium, and low creative achievements 
identified the same stimulus letters, but in blocks of five, seven, and nine 
trials per level. Results from both experiments indicated that people with high 
creative achievements made significantly more errors on trials in which they had 
to switch the level of attention, even after controlling for general 
intelligence. In Experiment 2, divergent thinking was also assessed, but it was 
not related to switching cost. Results from both experiments demonstrate that 
real-world creative acts relate to increased levels of attentional persistence, 
even if it comes with the cost of perseveration in certain circumstances.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2013.00191
PMCID: PMC3635848
PMID: 23630508


612. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2013 Jun;1288(1):48-58. doi: 10.1111/nyas.12102. Epub 2013 Apr 
30.

Multilocus genetic models of handedness closely resemble single-locus models in 
explaining family data and are compatible with genome-wide association studies.

McManus IC(1), Davison A, Armour JA.

Author information:
(1)Research Department of Clinical, Educational and Health Psychology, 
University College London, London, United Kingdom. i.mcmanus@ucl.ac.uk

Right- and left-handedness run in families, show greater concordance in 
monozygotic than dizygotic twins, and are well described by single-locus 
Mendelian models. Here we summarize a large genome-wide association study (GWAS) 
that finds no significant associations with handedness and is consistent with a 
meta-analysis of GWASs. The GWAS had 99% power to detect a single locus using 
the conventional criterion of P < 5 × 10(-8) for the single locus models of 
McManus and Annett. The strong conclusion is that handedness is not controlled 
by a single genetic locus. A consideration of the genetic architecture of 
height, primary ciliary dyskinesia, and intelligence suggests that handedness 
inheritance can be explained by a multilocus variant of the McManus DC model, 
classical effects on family and twins being barely distinguishable from the 
single locus model. Based on the ENGAGE meta-analysis of GWASs, we estimate at 
least 40 loci are involved in determining handedness.

© 2013 New York Academy of Sciences.

DOI: 10.1111/nyas.12102
PMCID: PMC4298034
PMID: 23631511 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


613. Psychiatr Q. 2013 Dec;84(4):513-21. doi: 10.1007/s11126-013-9263-5.

Associations between social anxiety and emotional intelligence within clinically 
depressed patients.

Nolidin K(1), Downey LA, Hansen K, Schweitzer I, Stough C.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Human Psychopharmacology, Swinburne University of Technology, 
Hawthorn, VIC, 3122, Australia.

Impairments in emotional intelligence (EI) have been found in individuals with 
high general and social anxiety; however, no studies have examined this 
relationship in a clinically depressed population. Thirty-one patients (11 male, 
20 female) with a DSM-IV-TR diagnosis of a major affective disorder and 28 
non-clinical controls (5 male, 23 female) completed self-report instruments 
assessing EI, depression and social anxiety. Compared to a control group, the 
clinical group scored lower on the EI dimensions of Emotional Recognition and 
Expression, Understanding Emotions, Emotional Management, and Emotional Control. 
Regression analyses revealed Emotional Control was a significant predictor of 
interaction, performance, and generalised social anxiety. Self-report measures 
of EI may have predictive value in terms of early identification of those at 
risk of developing social anxiety and depression. The current study points to 
the potential value of conducting further studies of a prospective nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11126-013-9263-5
PMID: 23632828 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


614. J Sci Food Agric. 2014 Jan 15;94(1):95-101. doi: 10.1002/jsfa.6202. Epub 2013 
Jun 17.

Evaluating the potential of artificial neural network and neuro-fuzzy techniques 
for estimating antioxidant activity and anthocyanin content of sweet cherry 
during ripening by using image processing.

Taghadomi-Saberi S(1), Omid M, Emam-Djomeh Z, Ahmadi H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Agricultural Machinery Engineering, Faculty of Agricultural 
Engineering and Technology, University of Tehran, Karaj, Iran.

BACKGROUND: This paper presents a versatile way for estimating antioxidant 
activity and anthocyanin content at different ripening stages of sweet cherry by 
combining image processing and two artificial intelligence (AI) techniques. In 
comparison with common time-consuming laboratory methods for determining these 
important attributes, this new way is economical and much faster. The accuracy 
of artificial neural network (ANN) and adaptive neuro-fuzzy inference system 
(ANFIS) models was studied to estimate the outputs. Sensitivity analysis and 
principal component analysis were used with ANN and ANFIS respectively to 
specify the most effective attributes on outputs.
RESULTS: Among the designed ANNs, two hidden layer networks with 11-14-9-1 and 
11-6-20-1 architectures had the highest correlation coefficients and lowest 
error values for modeling antioxidant activity (R = 0.93) and anthocyanin 
content (R = 0.98) respectively. ANFIS models with triangular and two-term 
Gaussian membership functions gave the best results for antioxidant activity (R 
= 0.87) and anthocyanin content (R = 0.90) respectively.
CONCLUSION: Comparison of the models showed that ANN outperformed ANFIS for this 
case. By considering the advantages of the applied system and the accuracy 
obtained in somewhat similar studies, it can be concluded that both techniques 
presented here have good potential to be used as estimators of proposed 
attributes.

© 2013 Society of Chemical Industry.

DOI: 10.1002/jsfa.6202
PMID: 23633396 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


615. Dement Geriatr Cogn Dis Extra. 2013 Feb 16;3(1):25-36. doi: 10.1159/000346845. 
Print 2013 Jan.

Reliability, validity, and optimal cutoff score of the montreal cognitive 
assessment (changsha version) in ischemic cerebrovascular disease patients of 
hunan province, china.

Tu QY(1), Jin H, Ding BR, Yang X, Lei ZH, Bai S, Zhang YD, Tang XQ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatrics, 3rd Xiangya Hospital, Central South University, 
Changsha, China.

BACKGROUND/AIMS: The goal of this study was to examine the reliability and 
validity of the Changsha version of the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA-CS) 
in ischemic cerebrovascular disease patients of Hunan Province, China, and to 
explore the optimal cutoff score for detecting vascular cognitive impairment-no 
dementia (VCI-ND) and vascular dementia (VD).
METHODS: Three hundred and thirty-eight ischemic cerebrovascular disease 
patients (131 with normal cognition, 111 with VCI-ND, and 96 with VD) and 132 
healthy controls were recruited. All participants accepted examination by the 
MoCA-CS, Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE), and other related scales. A 
detailed neuropsychological battery was used for making a final cognitive 
diagnosis. SPSS 16.0 statistical software was used for reliability, validity 
examination, and optimal cutoff score detection.
RESULTS: Cronbach's α of the MoCA-CS was 0.884, and test-retest and interrater 
reliability of the MoCA-CS were 0.966 and 0.926, respectively. MoCA-CS scores 
were highly correlated with MMSE scores (r = 0.867) and simplified intelligence 
quotients (r = 0.822). The results indicate that 1 point should be added for 
subjects with less than 6 years of education, and that the optimal cutoff score 
for detecting VCI-ND is 26/27 (sensitivity 96.1%, specificity 75.6%), whereas 
the optimal cutoff score for detecting VD is 16/17 (sensitivity 92.7%, 
specificity 96.3%).
CONCLUSION: The MoCA-CS has good reliability and validity, and is a useful 
cognitive screening instrument for detecting VCI in the Chinese population.

DOI: 10.1159/000346845
PMCID: PMC3617974
PMID: 23637698


616. PLoS One. 2013 Apr 24;8(4):e56515. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0056515. Print 
2013.

Priming intelligent behavior: an elusive phenomenon.

Shanks DR(1), Newell BR, Lee EH, Balakrishnan D, Ekelund L, Cenac Z, Kavvadia F, 
Moore C.

Author information:
(1)Division of Psychology and Language Sciences, University College London, 
London, United Kingdom. d.shanks@ucl.ac.uk

Can behavior be unconsciously primed via the activation of attitudes, 
stereotypes, or other concepts? A number of studies have suggested that such 
priming effects can occur, and a prominent illustration is the claim that 
individuals' accuracy in answering general knowledge questions can be influenced 
by activating intelligence-related concepts such as professor or soccer 
hooligan. In 9 experiments with 475 participants we employed the procedures used 
in these studies, as well as a number of variants of those procedures, in an 
attempt to obtain this intelligence priming effect. None of the experiments 
obtained the effect, although financial incentives did boost performance. A 
Bayesian analysis reveals considerable evidential support for the null 
hypothesis. The results conform to the pattern typically obtained in word 
priming experiments in which priming is very narrow in its generalization and 
unconscious (subliminal) influences, if they occur at all, are extremely 
short-lived. We encourage others to explore the circumstances in which this 
phenomenon might be obtained.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0056515
PMCID: PMC3634790
PMID: 23637732 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


617. Radiol Manage. 2013 Mar-Apr;35(2):42-5.

Effective radiology dashboards: key research findings.

Karami M(1), Safdari R, Rahimi A.

Author information:
(1)School of Allied Health Sciences, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, Iran. karami_m@razi.tums.ac.ir

Innovative organizations have access to information for business intelligence 
through the objectives displayed in dashboards. In healthcare organizations, 
where the goal is to improve quality of care along with reducing costs, the 
radiology department is important from both financial and clinical aspects. 
Therefore, how to manage this department has critical impact on the 
effectiveness and efficiency of the organization. Today, since the information 
in this department not only has different data structure but also is gathered 
from different data sources, a well defined, comprehensive dashboard can be an 
effective tool to enhance performance.

PMID: 23638580 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


618. Gene. 2013 Oct 1;528(1):51-4. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2013.03.145. Epub 2013 Apr 29.

A 1.1Mb deletion in distal 13q deletion syndrome region with congenital heart 
defect and postaxial polydactyly: additional support for a CHD locus at distal 
13q34 region.

Yang YF(1), Ai Q, Huang C, Chen JL, Wang J, Xie L, Zhang WZ, Yang JF, Tan ZP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, The Second Xiangya Hospital, Central 
South University, Changsha, Hunan, China.

13q deletion syndrome is a rare genetic disorder, especially for group 3 
deletion (13q33-q34 deletion). Previously we described a patient with congenital 
heart defect and mental retardation and proposed that a distal 6Mb region might 
contain the causative gene of congenital heart defect. Here we present a new 
patient with congenital heart defects (CHD), hand and foot anomalies and mild 
mental retardation. We identified a 1.1Mb deletion at chromosome 13q34 with high 
resolution SNP-array BeadChips (HumanOmni1-Quad, Illumina, USA). This chromosome 
region contains ten annotated genes, including GRK1, TFDP1, RASA3 and GAS6. To 
our knowledge, this represents the smallest 13q34 deletion identified to date. 
Our study provides additional support that distal 13q34 deletion region might 
contain key gene(s) responsible for cardiac development.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2013.03.145
PMID: 23639964 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


619. Psychol Sci. 2013 Jul 1;24(7):1301-8. doi: 10.1177/0956797612466268. Epub 2013 
May 2.

Enduring links from childhood mathematics and reading achievement to adult 
socioeconomic status.

Ritchie SJ(1), Bates TC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Edinburgh, 7 George Square, Edinburgh 
EH8 9JZ, Scotland.

Understanding the determinants of socioeconomic status (SES) is an important 
economic and social goal. Several major influences on SES are known, yet much of 
the variance in SES remains unexplained. In a large, population-representative 
sample from the United Kingdom, we tested the effects of mathematics and reading 
achievement at age 7 on attained SES by age 42. Mathematics and reading ability 
both had substantial positive associations with adult SES, above and beyond the 
effects of SES at birth, and with other important factors, such as intelligence. 
Achievement in mathematics and reading was also significantly associated with 
intelligence scores, academic motivation, and duration of education. These 
findings suggest effects of improved early mathematics and reading on SES 
attainment across the life span.

DOI: 10.1177/0956797612466268
PMID: 23640065 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


620. J Abnorm Child Psychol. 2013 Oct;41(7):1145-59. doi: 10.1007/s10802-013-9750-z.

What specific facets of executive function are associated with academic 
functioning in youth with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder?

Langberg JM(1), Dvorsky MR, Evans SW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Virginia Commonwealth University and University of 
Cincinnati College of Medicine, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center, 
Richmond, VA 23284, USA. jlangberg@vcu.edu

The purpose of the study was to evaluate the relation between ratings of 
Executive Function (EF) and academic functioning in a sample of 94 
middle-school-aged youth with Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD; 
Mage = 11.9; 78 % male; 21 % minority). This study builds on prior work by 
evaluating associations between multiple specific aspects of EF (e.g., working 
memory, inhibition, and planning and organization) as rated by both parents and 
teachers on the Behavior Rating Inventory of Executive Function (BRIEF), with 
multiple academic outcomes, including school grades and homework problems. 
Further, this study examined the relationship between EF and academic outcomes 
above and beyond ADHD symptoms and controlled for a number of potentially 
important covariates, including intelligence and achievement scores. The EF 
Planning and Organization subscale as rated by both parents and teachers 
predicted school grades above and beyond symptoms of ADHD and relevant 
covariates. Parent ratings of youth's ability to transition effectively between 
tasks/situations (Shift subscale) also predicted school grades. Parent-rated 
symptoms of inattention, hyperactivity/impulsivity, and planning and 
organization abilities were significant in the final model predicting homework 
problems. In contrast, only symptoms of inattention and the Organization of 
Materials subscale from the BRIEF were significant in the teacher model 
predicting homework problems. Organization and planning abilities are highly 
important aspects academic functioning for middle-school-aged youth with ADHD. 
Implications of these findings for the measurement of EF, and organization and 
planning abilities in particular, are discussed along with potential 
implications for intervention.

DOI: 10.1007/s10802-013-9750-z
PMCID: PMC3758442
PMID: 23640285 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


621. J Pediatr Endocrinol Metab. 2013;26(5-6):591-4. doi: 10.1515/jpem-2012-0133.

KCNJ11 in-frame 15-bp deletion leading to glibenclamide- responsive neonatal 
diabetes mellitus in a Chinese child.

Yang W(1), Wei H, Sang Y.

Author information:
(1)National Key Discipline of Pediatrics (Capital Medical University), Ministry 
of Education, Department of Endocrinology, Beijing Children's Hospital, Capital 
Medical University, Beijing 100045, China.

The ATP-sensitive K+ channel controls insulin secretion from the islet. 
Mutations in KCNJ11 can cause permanent and transient neonatal diabetes. To 
date, more than 30 KCNJ11 mutations have been revealed as related to the onset 
of neonatal diabetes mellitus (NDM), most of which are responsive to 
glibenclamide treatment. In the present study, we sequenced the KCNJ11 gene in a 
Chinese girl diagnosed with NDM and in her parents. An in-frame 15-bp KCNJ11 
deletion was identified in the patient, whereas no KCNJ11 deletions were found 
in her parents, indicating that this deletion was de novo. The patient was 
responsive to the treatment of glibenclamide. Ten months of follow-up showed 
that, besides permanent NDM, the motor and intelligence development of the girl 
was normal and she suffered no onset of convulsions. The result, to some degree, 
improved our knowledge on NDM.

DOI: 10.1515/jpem-2012-0133
PMID: 23640936 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


622. Soins. 2013 Mar;(773):32-4.

[The interpersonal relationship with the patient and the notion of proper 
distance].

[Article in French]

Michon F(1).

Author information:
(1)Cadre de santé, centre de soins et de rééducation, Vaucresson, France. 
Flo.michon.kossmann@free.fr

Finding the right distance to establish when caring for a patient requires 
self-knowledge on the part of the professional. The latter must develop the 
emotional intelligence and interpersonal skills needed to establish a warm, 
authentic and benevolent relationship with the patient.

PMID: 23641571 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


623. Res Dev Disabil. 2013 Jul;34(7):2224-33. doi: 10.1016/j.ridd.2013.03.035. Epub 
2013 Apr 30.

The SWedish Eating Assessment for Autism spectrum disorders (SWEAA)-Validation 
of a self-report questionnaire targeting eating disturbances within the autism 
spectrum.

Karlsson L(1), Råstam M, Wentz E.

Author information:
(1)Gillberg Neuropsychiatry Centre, Institute of Neuroscience and Physiology, 
University of Gothenburg, Kungsgatan 12, SE-411 19 Gothenburg, Sweden. 
louise.karlsson@gnc.gu.se

The aim was to design and validate a questionnaire pertaining to eating problems 
in individuals with normal intelligence, within the autism spectrum. The 
questionnaire was based on literature search and clinical experience. The 
validation focused on psychometric properties of reliability and validity using 
a clinical group of individuals with autism spectrum disorders (ASD) (n=57) and 
a matched, healthy comparison group (n=31). The instrument showed high levels of 
reliability, convergent and discriminant validity and scaling properties. 
Logistic regression analyses discerned the single item Simultaneous capacity and 
the subscale Social situation at mealtime as the best predictors of ASD. In 
conclusion, the questionnaire is valid and reliable to detect disturbed eating 
behaviours in individuals with ASD and normal intelligence.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ridd.2013.03.035
PMID: 23643773 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


624. Neuroscience. 2013 Aug 29;246:351-61. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2013.04.051. 
Epub 2013 Apr 30.

Prediction for human intelligence using morphometric characteristics of cortical 
surface: partial least square analysis.

Yang JJ(1), Yoon U, Yun HJ, Im K, Choi YY, Lee KH, Park H, Hough MG, Lee JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Hanyang University, Seoul, South Korea.

A number of imaging studies have reported neuroanatomical correlates of human 
intelligence with various morphological characteristics of the cerebral cortex. 
However, it is not yet clear whether these morphological properties of the 
cerebral cortex account for human intelligence. We assumed that the complex 
structure of the cerebral cortex could be explained effectively considering 
cortical thickness, surface area, sulcal depth and absolute mean curvature 
together. In 78 young healthy adults (age range: 17-27, male/female: 39/39), we 
used the full-scale intelligence quotient (FSIQ) and the cortical measurements 
calculated in native space from each subject to determine how much combining 
various cortical measures explained human intelligence. Since each cortical 
measure is thought to be not independent but highly inter-related, we applied 
partial least square (PLS) regression, which is one of the most promising 
multivariate analysis approaches, to overcome multicollinearity among cortical 
measures. Our results showed that 30% of FSIQ was explained by the first latent 
variable extracted from PLS regression analysis. Although it is difficult to 
relate the first derived latent variable with specific anatomy, we found that 
cortical thickness measures had a substantial impact on the PLS model supporting 
the most significant factor accounting for FSIQ. Our results presented here 
strongly suggest that the new predictor combining different morphometric 
properties of complex cortical structure is well suited for predicting human 
intelligence.

Copyright © 2013 IBRO. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2013.04.051
PMID: 23643979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


625. Neurol India. 2013 Mar-Apr;61(2):161-3. doi: 10.4103/0028-3886.111123.

Adult-onset leukoencephalopathy with brain stem and spinal cord involvement in 
Chinese Han population: a case report and literature review.

Cheng FB(1), Shen PP, Zhou HW, Meng HM, Yang Y, Feng JC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Jilin University, 
Changchun, Jilin Province, People's Republic of China.

Leukoencephalopathy with brainstem and spinal cord involvement and lactate 
elevation (LBSL) is a recently described disorder with an autosomal recessive 
mode of inheritance. We report a case of rare adult-onset LBSL with typical 
magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) features. The DARS2 gene mutation analysis has 
identified a c. 228-20_21delTTinsC (p.R76SfsX5) mutation and a c. 850G > A (p. 
284E > K) mutation. With glucocorticosteroid treatment the patient has had 
improvement in bladder symptoms. This is the first reported adult-onset LBSL 
case in the Chinese Han population. A review of the literature suggests that 
brain lactate elevation in adult-onset LBSL is lower than early-onset cases (P < 
0.01), and early-onset cases show mild intelligence and cognition decline. These 
observations suggest that age of onset and brain lactate levels probably 
influence the prognosis of LBSL.

DOI: 10.4103/0028-3886.111123
PMID: 23644316 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


626. Neuroradiology. 2013 Aug;55(8):1007-1014. doi: 10.1007/s00234-013-1184-3. Epub 
2013 May 5.

The neuroanatomical phenotype of tuberous sclerosis complex: focus on radial 
migration lines.

van Eeghen AM(1)(2), Terán LO(3), Johnson J(3), Pulsifer MB(4), Thiele EA(5), 
Caruso P(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Carol and James Herscot Center for Tuberous 
Sclerosis Complex, Massachusetts General Hospital, 175 Cambridge Street, Boston, 
MA, 02114, USA. avaneeghen@partners.org.
(2)ENCORE, Expertise Centre for Neurodevelopmental Disorders, Department of 
Neuroscience, Erasmus Medical Centre, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. 
avaneeghen@partners.org.
(3)Department of Radiology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, Psychological Assessment Center, Massachusetts 
General Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.
(5)Department of Neurology, Carol and James Herscot Center for Tuberous 
Sclerosis Complex, Massachusetts General Hospital, 175 Cambridge Street, Boston, 
MA, 02114, USA.

Erratum in
    Neuroradiology. 2013 Aug;55(8):1015. Terán, Laura Ortiz [corrected to 
Ortiz-Terán, Laura].

INTRODUCTION: The contribution of radial migration lines (RMLs) to the 
neuroanatomical and neurocognitive phenotype of tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) 
is unclear. The aim of this study was to perform a comprehensive evaluation of 
the neuroradiological phenotype of TSC, distinguishing RMLs from 
normal-appearing white matter (NAWM) using diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) and 
volumetric fluid-attenuated inversion recovery imaging.
METHODS: Magnetic resonance images of 30 patients with TSC were evaluated. The 
frequencies of RMLs, tubers, and subependymal nodules (SENs) were determined for 
every hemispheric lobe. Cerebellar lesions and subependymal giant cell tumors 
were counted. DTI metrics were obtained from the NAWM of every hemispheric lobe 
and from the largest RML and tuber. Analyses of variance and correlations were 
performed to investigate the associations between neuroanatomical 
characteristics and relationships between RML frequency and neurocognitive 
outcomes. NAWM DTI metrics were compared with measurements of 16 control 
patients.
RESULTS: A mean of 47 RMLs, 27 tubers, and 10 SENs were found per patient, and 
the frequencies of these lesions were strongly correlated (p < 0.001). RML 
fractional anisotropy and mean diffusivity were strongly inversely correlated (p 
= 0.003). NAWM DTI metrics were similar to the controls (p = 0.26). RML 
frequency was strongly associated with age of seizure onset (p = 0.003), 
intelligence outcomes (p = 0.01), and level of autistic features (p = 0.007).
CONCLUSION: A detailed neuroradiological phenotype is presented, showing that 
RMLs are the most frequent neuroanatomical lesion, are responsible for white 
matter DTI abnormalities, and are strongly associated with age of seizure onset, 
intelligence outcomes, and level of autistic features.

DOI: 10.1007/s00234-013-1184-3
PMID: 23644537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


627. Clinics (Sao Paulo). 2013;68(3):351-8. doi: 10.6061/clinics/2013(03)oa11.

Zinc, vitamin A, and glutamine supplementation in Brazilian shantytown children 
at risk for diarrhea results in sex-specific improvements in verbal learning.

Lima AA(1), Kvalsund MP, Souza PP, Figueiredo ÍL, Soares AM, Mota RM, Lima NL, 
Pinkerton RC, Patrick PP, Guerrant RL, Oriá RB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Clinical Research Unit and 
Institute of Biomedicine/Center for Global Health, School of Medicine, Federal 
University of Ceará, Fortaleza, CE, Brazil.

OBJECTIVE: To identify the impact of supplemental zinc, vitamin A, and 
glutamine, alone or in combination, on long-term cognitive outcomes among 
Brazilian shantytown children with low median height-for-age z-scores.
METHODS: A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial was conducted in 
children aged three months to nine years old from the urban shanty compound 
community of Fortaleza, Brazil. Demographic and anthropometric information was 
assessed. The random treatment groups available for cognitive testing (total of 
167 children) were: (1) placebo, n = 25; (2) glutamine, n = 23; (3) zinc, n = 
18; (4) vitamin A, n = 19; (5) glutamine+zinc, n = 20; (6) glutamine+vitamin A, 
n = 21; (7) zinc+vitamin A, n = 23; and (8) glutamine+zinc+vitamin A, n = 18. 
Neuropsychological tests were administered for the cognitive domains of 
non-verbal intelligence and abstraction, psychomotor speed, verbal memory and 
recall ability, and semantic and phonetic verbal fluency. Statistical analyses 
were performed using SPSS, version 16.0. ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT00133406.
RESULTS: Girls receiving a combination of glutamine, zinc, and vitamin A had 
higher mean age-adjusted verbal learning scores than girls receiving only 
placebo (9.5 versus 6.4, p = 0.007) and girls receiving zinc+vitamin A (9.5 
versus 6.5, p = 0.006). Similar group differences were not found between male 
study children.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings suggest that combination therapy offers a sex-specific 
advantage on tests of verbal learning, similar to that seen among female 
patients following traumatic brain injury.

DOI: 10.6061/clinics/2013(03)oa11
PMCID: PMC3611743
PMID: 23644855 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported.


628. Psychol Assess. 2013 Jun;25(2):484-95. doi: 10.1037/a0032092. Epub 2013 May 6.

Incremental criterion validity of WAIS-IV factor index scores: relationships 
with WIAT-II and WIAT-III subtest and composite scores.

Canivez GL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Eastern Illinois University, Charleston, IL 
61920-3099, USA. glcanivez@eiu.edu

The present study examined the incremental validity of Wechsler Adult 
Intelligence Scale-4th Edition (WAIS-IV; Wechsler, 2008a) factor index scores in 
predicting academic achievement on the Wechsler Individual Achievement Test-2nd 
Edition (WIAT-II; Psychological Corporation, 2002a) and on the Wechsler 
Individual Achievement Test-3rd Edition (WIAT-III; Wechsler, 2009a) beyond that 
predicted by the WAIS-IV Full Scale IQ (FSIQ). As with previous intelligence 
test incremental validity studies, the WAIS-IV FSIQ accounted for statistically 
significant and generally large portions of WIAT-II and WIAT-III subtest and 
composite score variance. WAIS-IV factor index scores combined to provide 
statistically significant increments in variance accounted for in most WIAT-II 
and WIAT-III subtest and composite scores over and above the FSIQ score; 
however, the effect sizes ranged from trivial to medium as observed in 
investigations with other intelligence tests (i.e., Glutting, Watkins, Konold, & 
McDermott, 2006; Youngstrom, Kogos, & Glutting, 1999). Individually, the WAIS-IV 
factor index scores provided trivial to small unique contributions to predicting 
WIAT-II and WIAT-III scores. This finding indicated that the FSIQ should retain 
primacy and greatest interpretive weight in WAIS-IV interpretation, as 
previously indicated by WAIS-IV subtest variance partitions form hierarchical 
exploratory factor analyses (Canivez & Watkins, 2010a, 2012b).

PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2013 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/a0032092
PMID: 23647042 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


629. Bioinspir Biomim. 2013 Jun;8(2):025003. doi: 10.1088/1748-3182/8/2/025003. Epub 
2013 May 7.

Biomimetics on seed dispersal: survey and insights for space exploration.

Pandolfi C(1), Izzo D.

Author information:
(1)Advanced Concepts Team, European Space Agency, Noordwijk, The Netherlands. 
camilla.pandolfi@esa.int

Seeds provide the vital genetic link and dispersal agent between successive 
generations of plants. Without seed dispersal as a means of reproduction, many 
plants would quickly die out. Because plants lack any sort of mobility and 
remain in the same spot for their entire lives, they rely on seed dispersal to 
transport their offspring throughout the environment. This can be accomplished 
either collectively or individually; in any case as seeds ultimately abdicate 
their movement, they are at the mercy of environmental factors. Thus, seed 
dispersal strategies are characterized by robustness, adaptability, intelligence 
(both behavioral and morphological), and mass and energy efficiency (including 
the ability to utilize environmental sources of energy available): all qualities 
that advanced engineering systems aim at in general, and in particular those 
that need to enable complex endeavors such as space exploration. Plants evolved 
and adapted their strategy according to their environment, and taken together, 
they enclose many desirable characteristics that a space mission needs to have. 
Understanding in detail how plants control the development of seeds, fabricate 
structural components for their dispersal, build molecular machineries to keep 
seeds dormant up to the right moment and monitor the environment to release them 
at the right time could provide several solutions impacting current space 
mission design practices. It can lead to miniaturization, higher integration and 
packing efficiency, energy efficiency and higher autonomy and robustness. 
Consequently, there would appear to be good reasons for considering biomimetic 
solutions from plant kingdom when designing space missions, especially to other 
celestial bodies, where solid and liquid surfaces, atmosphere, etc constitute 
and are obviously parallel with the terrestrial environment where plants 
evolved. In this paper, we review the current state of biomimetics on seed 
dispersal to improve space mission design.

DOI: 10.1088/1748-3182/8/2/025003
PMID: 23648867 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


630. Epilepsia. 2013 Jun;54(6):1065-73. doi: 10.1111/epi.12208. Epub 2013 May 7.

Abnormal white matter correlates with neuropsychological impairment in children 
with localization-related epilepsy.

Widjaja E(1), Skocic J, Go C, Snead OC, Mabbott D, Smith ML.

Author information:
(1)Diagnostic Imaging, Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. 
Elysa.Widjaja@sickkids.ca

PURPOSE: The white matter (WM) is considered critical for linking cortical 
processing networks necessary for cognition. The aim of this study was to assess 
diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) measures of regional WM in children with 
nonlesional localization-related epilepsy in comparison to controls, and to 
determine the relation between lobar WM and neuropsychological performance.
METHODS: Forty children with nonlesional localization-related epilepsy and 25 
healthy controls with no neurological or psychiatric disorders and normal 
magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) were recruited. All patients and controls 
underwent neuropsychological testing that evaluated intelligence, language, 
memory, executive function, and motor function, as well as DTI to assess 
regional WM measures of fractional anisotropy (FA) and mean diffusivity (MD). 
The regional FA and MD were compared between patients and controls, and 
correlated with neuropsychological function. The relations between regional FA 
and MD with age at seizure onset and duration of epilepsy were assessed.
KEY FINDINGS: Twenty-one patients had left-sided and 19 patients had right-sided 
epilepsy. There were no significant differences in seizure-related variables 
including age at seizure onset, duration of epilepsy, seizure frequency, and 
number of antiepileptic medications, as well as no significant differences in 
neuropsychological function and DTI measures of white matter in left-sided 
compared to right-sided epilepsy. Therefore, all the patients with epilepsy were 
treated as one group. Patients with epilepsy performed significantly worse on 
intelligence (p < 0.001), language (p < 0.001), and executive function (p = 
0.001) evaluation than controls. Patients had significantly reduced FA in left 
frontal (p = 0.015), right frontal (p = 0.004), left temporal (p = 0.039), right 
temporal (p = 0.003), right parietal (p = 0.014), and right occipital (p = 
0.025) WM relative to controls. There were no significant regional WM 
differences (all p > 0.05) in MD between patients and controls. There was a 
significant positive correlation between right temporal FA with language (r = 
0.535, p < 0.001) and executive function (r = 0.617, p < 0.001), as well as 
between body of corpus callosum FA with intelligence (r = 0.536, p < 0.001) and 
language (r = 0.529, p < 0.001) in patients. Left parietal MD was significantly 
correlated with language (r = -0.545, p < 0.001) in patients. FA of right 
temporal WM was significantly associated with age at seizure onset (t = 4.97, p 
< 0.001).
SIGNIFICANCE: There was widespread regional WM abnormality in children with 
nonlesional localization-related epilepsy, which was associated with impaired 
neuropsychological function. The impairment in WM may reflect disruption in the 
connectivity for cortical processing networks, which is necessary for the 
development of cognition.

Wiley Periodicals, Inc. © 2013 International League Against Epilepsy.

DOI: 10.1111/epi.12208
PMCID: PMC3867411
PMID: 23650911 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


631. AIDS Care. 2013;25(12):1536-43. doi: 10.1080/09540121.2013.793264. Epub 2013 May 
7.

Parenting styles and emotional intelligence of HIV-affected children in 
Thailand.

Lee SJ(1), Li L, Thammawijaya P.

Author information:
(1)a Department of Psychiatry and Biobehavioral Sciences , Semel Institute - 
Center for Community Health, University of California , Los Angeles , CA , USA.

The purpose of this study was to examine the impact of parenting styles on 
emotional intelligence of HIV-affected children in Thailand. This study uses 
data from 205 HIV-affected children in northern and northeastern Thailand. 
Correlation and regression analyses were used to examine the predictors of 
emotional intelligence. Children reporting higher levels of stress reported less 
caring parenting style (standardized beta [B]=-0.18, p=0.050). Children with 
higher self-esteem were also more likely to perceive their parents as caring 
(B=0.48, p=0.002). Children who scored lower on their self-esteem reported their 
parents to be more overprotective (B=-0.30, p=0.030), and children reporting 
higher levels of stress reported their parents to be more overprotective 
(B=0.12, p=0.010). Children reporting caring parenting style were significantly 
more likely to report higher emotional intelligence (B=0.66, p=0.001). Parenting 
styles play an important role in the emotional intelligence. Identifying and 
testing interventions to help parents improve their parenting styles, while 
helping their HIV-affected children cope with stress and self-esteem, are 
essential in promoting mental health of HIV-affected children in Thailand.

DOI: 10.1080/09540121.2013.793264
PMCID: PMC3744599
PMID: 23651471 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


632. Wei Sheng Yan Jiu. 2013 Mar;42(2):236-40.

[Influence of phthalates from Shaying river on children's intelligence and 
secretion of thyroid hormone].

[Article in Chinese]

Li A(1), Tang C, Hang H, Cheng X, Gao Y, Cheng H, Huang Q, Luo Y, Xue Y, Zuo Q, 
Ba Y, Cui L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Medicine, Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou 450001, 
China. annieli1990@163.com

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the effect of phthalates exposure from drinking water 
on children's intelligence and secretion of thyroid hormone.
METHODS: Two villages in S County were selected randomly as polluted area and 
control area according to the distance from the Shaying river basin. Phthalates 
including DEP, DBP, DMP, DEHP were measured both in the river water and drinking 
water using HPLC method. Children aged 8 to 13 years old studying in the village 
primary school were recruited by cluster sampling (n = 154). The combined Reven 
Test was used to test children intelligence and ELISA method was used to 
determined thyroid hormone levels.
RESULTS: The concentrations of phthalates (DEP, DBP) were exceeding standards of 
surface water quality in any of the three sections of the river. Compared to the 
control area, the concentration of DEP and DBP in drinking water were 
significant higher in the polluted area than that in control area (P < 0.05). 
Children from polluted area had significant higher FT4 concentration compared to 
children from control area (P < 0.05). Intelligence level in children from 
polluted area was lower than that from control area (P < 0.05).
CONCLUSION: The drinking water has been polluted by Shaying river and thyroid 
hormones levels of children were affected in the polluted areas. It is necessary 
to verify if this change is related to the phthalates.

PMID: 23654099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


633. Clin Neuropsychol. 2013;27(6):988-1003. doi: 10.1080/13854046.2013.797502. Epub 
2013 May 8.

Normal variability of children's scaled scores on subtests of the Dutch Wechsler 
Preschool and Primary scale of Intelligence - third edition.

Hurks PP(1), Hendriksen JG, Dek JE, Kooij AP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuropsychology and Pyschopharmacology, Maastricht University, 
Maastricht, The Netherlands. Pm.Hurks@maastrichtuniversity.nl

Intelligence tests are included in millions of assessments of children and 
adults each year (Watkins, Glutting, & Lei, 2007a , Applied Neuropsychology, 14, 
13). Clinicians often interpret large amounts of subtest scatter, or large 
differences between the highest and lowest scaled subtest scores, on an 
intelligence test battery as an index for abnormality or cognitive impairment. 
The purpose of the present study is to characterize "normal" patterns of 
variability among subtests of the Dutch Wechsler Preschool and Primary Scale of 
Intelligence - Third Edition (WPPSI-III-NL; Wechsler, 2010 ). Therefore, the 
frequencies of WPPSI-III-NL scaled subtest scatter were reported for 1039 
healthy children aged 4:0-7:11 years. Results indicated that large differences 
between highest and lowest scaled subtest scores (or subtest scatter) were 
common in this sample. Furthermore, degree of subtest scatter was related to: 
(a) the magnitude of the highest scaled subtest score, i.e., more scatter was 
seen in children with the highest WPPSI-III-NL scaled subtest scores, (b) Full 
Scale IQ (FSIQ) scores, i.e., higher FSIQ scores were associated with an 
increase in subtest scatter, and (c) sex differences, with boys showing a 
tendency to display more scatter than girls. In conclusion, viewing subtest 
scatter as an index for abnormality in WPPSI-III-NL scores is an 
oversimplification as this fails to recognize disparate subtest heterogeneity 
that occurs within a population of healthy children aged 4:0-7:11 years.

DOI: 10.1080/13854046.2013.797502
PMID: 23656355 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


634. Naturwissenschaften. 2013 Jun;100(6):559-69. doi: 10.1007/s00114-013-1052-3. 
Epub 2013 May 9.

Cognitive ability correlates positively with son birth and predicts 
cross-cultural variation of the offspring sex ratio.

Dama MS(1).

Author information:
(1)S/O: Shivajirao Dama, Atpost: Rajeshwar, Tq: Basavakalyan, Dist, Bidar, 
Karnataka, India, 585331. madhukar262@gmail.com

Human populations show remarkable variation in the sex ratio at birth which is 
believed to be related to the parental condition. In the present study, the 
global variation of sex ratio at birth (SRB, proportion of male offspring born) 
was analyzed with respect to indirect measure of condition, the intelligence 
quotient (IQ). IQ correlates strongly with lifespan across nations, which makes 
it a good indicator of health of the large populations. Relation between three 
standard measures of average national IQ and SRB was studied using multiple 
linear regression models. Average national IQ was positively correlated with SRB 
(r = 0.54 to 0.57, p < 0.001). Further, IQ emerged as a powerful predictor of 
SRB after controlling for the effects of all the known covariates like 
fertility, maternal age, polygyny prevalence, wealth, son preference, latitude, 
low birth weight, and neonatal mortality in the regression models. These results 
suggest that the striking variation of offspring sex ratio across nations could 
be caused in part by the difference in general condition of populations.

DOI: 10.1007/s00114-013-1052-3
PMID: 23657672 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


635. Analyst. 2013 Aug 7;138(15):4215-28. doi: 10.1039/c3an36896c. Epub 2013 May 9.

Beyond the ridge pattern: multi-informative analysis of latent fingermarks by 
MALDI mass spectrometry.

Francese S(1), Bradshaw R, Ferguson LS, Wolstenholme R, Clench MR, Bleay S.

Author information:
(1)Biomedical Research Centre, Sheffield Hallam University, Howard Street, 
Sheffield, S1 1WB, UK. s.francese@shu.ac.uk

After over a century, fingerprints are still one of the most powerful means of 
biometric identification. The conventional forensic workflow for suspect 
identification consists of (i) recovering latent marks from crime scenes using 
the appropriate enhancement technique and (ii) obtaining an image of the mark to 
compare either against known suspect prints and/or to search in a Fingerprint 
Database. The suspect is identified through matching the ridge pattern and local 
characteristics of the ridge pattern (minutiae). However successful, there are a 
number of scenarios in which this process may fail; they include the recovery of 
partial, distorted or smudged marks, poor quality of the image resulting from 
inadequacy of the enhancement technique applied, extensive scarring/abrasion of 
the fingertips or absence of suspect's fingerprint records in the database. In 
all of these instances it would be very desirable to have a technology able to 
provide additional information from a fingermark exploiting its endogenous and 
exogenous chemical content. This opportunity could potentially provide new 
investigative leads, especially when the fingermark comparison and match process 
fails. We have demonstrated that Matrix Assisted Laser Desorption Ionisation 
Mass Spectrometry and Mass Spectrometry Imaging (MALDI MSI) can provide multiple 
images of the same fingermark in one analysis simultaneous with additional 
intelligence. Here, a review on the pioneering use and development of MALDI MSI 
for the analysis of latent fingermarks is presented along with the latest 
achievements on the forensic intelligence retrievable.

DOI: 10.1039/c3an36896c
PMID: 23658933 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


636. Nurse Educ Today. 2014 Mar;34(3):413-20. doi: 10.1016/j.nedt.2013.03.018. Epub 
2013 May 6.

Emotional intelligence: an admission criterion alternative to cumulative grade 
point averages for prelicensure students.

Jones-Schenk J(1), Harper MG(2).

Author information:
(1)College of Health Professions, Western Governors University, 4001 S. 700 E., 
Suite 700, Salt Lake City, UT 84107, United States. Electronic address: 
Jan.jonesschenk@wgu.edu.
(2)College of Health Professions, Western Governors University, 4001 S. 700 E., 
Suite 700, Salt Lake City, UT 84107, United States. Electronic address: 
mary.harper@wgu.edu.

BACKGROUND: Predicting potential student success is of great interest to nursing 
educators and academic administrators alike. Cumulative grade point average 
(CGPA) has traditionally been used to screen nursing program candidates, but 
CGPA itself has shown to have no statistically significant predictive value and 
may in fact screen out individuals who possess social intelligence attributes 
that are essential for success in nursing practice. The purpose of this study is 
to determine if students whose emotional intelligence characteristics meet or 
exceed those of successful staff nurses are more likely to be successful in a 
baccalaureate nursing program.
METHODS: A descriptive, correlational design was used to compare the emotional 
intelligence attributes of 116 potential nursing students and 42 successful 
staff nurses using the Emotional Quotient Inventory (EQ-i).
RESULTS: Nursing students who remained in the nursing program were found to have 
significantly higher levels of total emotional intelligence, interpersonal 
capacity, and stress tolerance. Students who dropped from the nursing program 
were not significantly different from successful staff nurses in terms of 
emotional intelligence.
CONCLUSION: Emotional intelligence presents a compelling adjunct to current 
selection criteria for nursing students. However, the lack of research prevents 
widespread adoption of this criterion. This study suggests that students with 
higher levels of emotional intelligence, particularly intrapersonal capacity and 
stress tolerance, are more likely to be successful in a baccalaureate nursing 
program than students with lower levels. Further research is needed to determine 
the usefulness of EI as a predictor of student success in nursing programs.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nedt.2013.03.018
PMID: 23660239 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


637. Dev Med Child Neurol. 2013 Oct;55(10):911-8. doi: 10.1111/dmcn.12157. Epub 2013 
May 11.

Intelligence assessments for children with cerebral palsy: a systematic review.

Yin Foo R(1), Guppy M, Johnston LM.

Author information:
(1)Cerebral Palsy League, Brisbane, Qld, Australia.

AIM: Cerebral palsy (CP) is defined as a primary disorder of posture and 
movement; however, approximately 45% of children with CP also have an 
intellectual impairment. Prevalence estimates are limited by a lack of 
guidelines for intelligence testing. This systematic review aims to identify and 
examine intelligence assessments for children with CP.
METHOD: Electronic databases (PubMed, PsycINFO, Web of Science, CINAHL, EMBASE, 
and ERIC) were searched to identify assessments that (1) measured intellectual 
function, (2) in children aged 4 to 18 years, (3) with CP, and (4) with 
psychometrics available.
RESULTS: Searches yielded 48 assessments, of which nine provided psychometric 
data for children with CP. The included tests were the Columbia Mental Maturity 
Scale, the Leiter International Performance Scale, the Peabody Picture 
Vocabulary Test, the Pictorial Test of Intelligence, the Raven's Coloured 
Progressive Matrices, the Stanford-Binet Intelligence Scales, the Wechsler Adult 
Intelligence Scale, the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children, and the 
Wechsler Preschool and Primary Scale of Intelligence.
INTERPRETATION: Intelligence assessments in children with CP lack reliability 
data, consensus regarding validity data, and population-specific norms. Research 
is required to establish psychometrics for children with CP. For children with 
higher motor involvement and/or communication and/or visual impairments, 
multiple options are required to assess intelligence appropriately.

© 2013 Mac Keith Press.

DOI: 10.1111/dmcn.12157
PMID: 23662850 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


638. Neuropsychol Dev Cogn B Aging Neuropsychol Cogn. 2014;21(2):214-21. doi: 
10.1080/13825585.2013.795515. Epub 2013 May 10.

Influence of IQ in interpreting MMSE scores in patients with multiple sclerosis.

Gontkovsky ST(1).

Author information:
(1)a Center for Neuroscience and Neurological Recovery , Methodist 
Rehabilitation Center , Jackson , MS , USA.

The Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) and Wechsler Adult Intelligence 
Scale-Fourth Edition (WAIS-IV) were administered to 46 outpatients diagnosed 
with multiple sclerosis (MS). MMSE total raw score was significantly and 
positively correlated with all WAIS-IV indexes, even when controlling for the 
effects of participant educational level, with the strongest relationship being 
with Full Scale IQ. These results suggest that clinicians consider patient 
intellectual functioning, in particular Full Scale IQ, when diagnosing 
neurocognitive impairment based on screening with the MMSE in individuals with 
MS.

DOI: 10.1080/13825585.2013.795515
PMID: 23663048 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


639. Psychol Med. 2014 Mar;44(4):869-80. doi: 10.1017/S0033291713001037. Epub 2013 
May 13.

Identifying a consistent pattern of neural function in attention deficit 
hyperactivity disorder: a meta-analysis.

McCarthy H(1), Skokauskas N(1), Frodl T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Integrated Neuroimaging, Trinity College Dublin, 
Dublin, Republic of Ireland.

BACKGROUND: The neurobiological underpinnings of attention deficit hyperactivity 
disorder (ADHD) are inconclusive. Activation abnormalities across brain regions 
in ADHD compared with healthy controls highlighted in task-based functional 
magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies are heterogeneous. To identify a 
consistent pattern of neural dysfunction in ADHD, a meta-analysis of fMRI 
studies using Go/no-go, Stop and N-back tasks was undertaken.
METHOD: Several databases were searched using the key words: 'ADHD and fMRI' and 
'ADHD and fMRI task'. In all, 20 studies met inclusion criteria comprising 334 
patients with ADHD and 372 healthy controls and were split into N-back, Stop 
task and Go/no-go case-control groups. Using Signed Differential Mapping each 
batch was meta-analysed individually and meta-regression analyses were used to 
examine the effects of exposure to methylphenidate (MPH), length of MPH wash-out 
period, ADHD subtype, age and intelligence quotient (IQ) differences upon neural 
dysfunction in ADHD.
RESULTS: Across all tasks less activity in frontal lobe regions compared with 
controls was detected. Less exposure to treatment and lengthier wash-out times 
resulted in less left medial frontal cortex activation in N-back and Go/no-go 
studies. Higher percentage of combined-type ADHD resulted in less superior and 
inferior frontal gyrus activation. Different IQ scores between groups were 
linked to reduced right caudate activity in ADHD.
CONCLUSIONS: Consistent frontal deficits imply homogeneous cognitive strategies 
involved in ADHD behavioural control. Our findings suggest a link between fMRI 
results and the potentially normalizing effect of treatment and signify a need 
for segregated examination and contrast of differences in sample characteristics 
in future studies.

DOI: 10.1017/S0033291713001037
PMID: 23663382 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


640. Behav Brain Sci. 2013 Jun;36(3):226-7. doi: 10.1017/S0140525X12002373. Epub 2013 
May 10.

Affect and non-uniform characteristics of predictive processing in musical 
behaviour.

Schaefer RS(1), Overy K, Nelson P.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Music in Human and Social Development (IMHSD), Reid School of 
Music, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh EH8 9DF, United Kingdom. 
r.schaefer@ed.ac.uk

Comment in
    Behav Brain Sci. 2013 Jun;36(3):233-53.

Comment on
    Behav Brain Sci. 2013 Jun;36(3):181-204.

The important roles of prediction and prior experience are well established in 
music research and fit well with Clark's concept of unified perception, 
cognition, and action arising from hierarchical, bidirectional predictive 
processing. However, in order to fully account for human musical intelligence, 
Clark needs to further consider the powerful and variable role of affect in 
relation to prediction error.

DOI: 10.1017/S0140525X12002373
PMID: 23663552 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


641. Behav Brain Sci. 2013 Jun;36(3):230-1. doi: 10.1017/S0140525X12002439. Epub 2013 
May 10.

What else can brains do?

Sloman A(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Computer Science, University of Birmingham, Birmingham B15 2TT 
United Kingdom. a.sloman@cs.bham.ac.uk

Comment in
    Behav Brain Sci. 2013 Jun;36(3):233-53.

Comment on
    Behav Brain Sci. 2013 Jun;36(3):181-204.

The approach Clark labels "action-oriented predictive processing" treats all 
cognition as part of a system of on-line control. This ignores other important 
aspects of animal, human, and robot intelligence. He contrasts it with an 
alleged "mainstream" approach that also ignores the depth and variety of 
AI/Robotic research. I don't think the theory presented is worth taking 
seriously as a complete model, even if there is much that it explains.

DOI: 10.1017/S0140525X12002439
PMID: 23663916 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


642. Patient Educ Couns. 2013 Aug;92(2):188-96. doi: 10.1016/j.pec.2013.04.008. Epub 
2013 May 9.

Communicating risk of hereditary breast and ovarian cancer with an interactive 
decision support tool.

Rupert DJ(1), Squiers LB, Renaud JM, Whitehead NS, Osborn RJ, Furberg RD, Squire 
CM, Tzeng JP.

Author information:
(1)Health Communication Program, RTI International, Research Triangle Park, NC 
27709, USA. drupert@rti.org

OBJECTIVE: Women with hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome (HBOC) face 
a higher risk of earlier, more aggressive cancer. Because of HBOC's rarity, 
screening is recommended only for women with strong cancer family histories. 
However, most patients do not have accurate history available and struggle to 
understand genetic concepts.
METHODS: Cancer in the Family, an online clinical decision support tool, 
calculated women's HBOC risk and promoted shared patient-provider decisions 
about screening. A pilot evaluation (n=9 providers, n=48 patients) assessed the 
tool's impact on knowledge, attitudes, and screening decisions. Patients used 
the tool before wellness exams and completed three surveys. Providers accessed 
the tool during exams, completed exam checklists, and completed four surveys.
RESULTS: Patients entered complete family histories (67%), calculated personal 
risk (96%), and shared risk printouts with providers (65%). HBOC knowledge 
increased dramatically for patients and providers, and many patients (75%) 
perceived tool results as valid. The tool prompted patient-provider discussions 
about HBOC risk and cancer family history (88%).
CONCLUSIONS: The tool was effective in increasing knowledge, collecting family 
history, and sparking patient-provider discussions about HBOC screening.
PRACTICE IMPLICATIONS: Interactive tools can effectively communicate 
personalized risk and promote shared decisions, but they are not a substitute 
for patient-provider discussions.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pec.2013.04.008
PMID: 23664232 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


643. Schizophr Res. 2013 Jul;147(2-3):315-9. doi: 10.1016/j.schres.2013.04.016. Epub 
2013 May 9.

General intellectual ability does not explain the general deficit in 
schizophrenia.

Gray BE(1), McMahon RP, Gold JM.

Author information:
(1)University of Maryland School of Medicine, Department of Psychiatry, Maryland 
Psychiatric Research Center, PO Box 21247, Baltimore, MD 21228, USA. 
bgray@mprc.umaryland.edu

Patients with schizophrenia demonstrate a generalized deficit across multiple 
cognitive domains. However, it is unknown whether this deficit is largely due to 
lower intelligence, or if there is an impact of schizophrenia which cannot be 
accounted for by measures of general intellectual ability (GIA). We created four 
IQ-matched strata of equal width between 89 healthy volunteers (HC) and 77 
patients with schizophrenia (SZ) who had very similar IQ and reading scores 
within each stratum, then compared each stratum's performance on the MATRICS 
Consensus Cognitive Battery (MCCB). We hypothesized that any patient impairment 
on the MCCB after matching on IQ would be evidence that GIA does not fully 
explain the general deficit seen in schizophrenia. We found that patients showed 
evidence of greater neuropsychological impairment than what would be expected 
based solely on their IQ and reading ability scores. Further, this deficit was 
stronger in some cognitive domains than others, namely, processing speed and 
social cognition. These results suggest the presence of a distinction between 
GIA and generalized neuropsychological impairment that was consistent in 
magnitude across all patients, regardless of IQ.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.schres.2013.04.016
PMCID: PMC3679318
PMID: 23664590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


644. Res Dev Disabil. 2013 Jul;34(7):2257-67. doi: 10.1016/j.ridd.2013.04.003. Epub 
2013 May 10.

The validation of a scale to measure cognitive development in Chinese preschool 
children.

Leung C(1), Mak R, Lau V, Cheung J, Lam C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Applied Social Sciences, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, 
Hung Hom, Hong Kong. ssleung@polyu.edu.hk

The present study aimed to evaluate the reliability and validity of the 
cognitive sub-test of the Preschool Developmental Assessment Scale (PDAS) for 
Hong Kong Chinese children. Participants included 378 children (189 boys and 189 
girls) aged 3-6 years old, with 324 children with typical development and 54 
children with developmental disabilities. They were administered the cognitive 
sub-test of the PDAS and the Wechsler Preschool and Primary Scale of 
Intelligence - Revised (WPPSI-R). The PDAS cognitive sub-test total scores 
correlated positively with the WPPSI-R scores. It could differentiate children 
from different age groups, with younger children attaining significantly lower 
scores than older children. The sub-test could also differentiate children with 
typical development from those with developmental disabilities, with the latter 
attaining significantly lower scores. The sensitivity and specificity were 
around 80%. Internal consistency (KR-20) was .93 and test-retest reliability was 
.81. The cognitive sub-test of the PDAS was found to be a promising screening 
tool for the identification of preschool children with developmental 
disabilities.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ridd.2013.04.003
PMID: 23665430 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


645. J Child Neurol. 2013 Aug;28(8):975-82. doi: 10.1177/0883073813488668. Epub 2013 
May 10.

Autism and dietary therapy: case report and review of the literature.

Herbert MR(1), Buckley JA.

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Neurology and TRANSCEND Research, Massachusetts General Hospital, 
Boston, MA 02129, USA. marthaherbertmd@gmail.com

We report the history of a child with autism and epilepsy who, after limited 
response to other interventions following her regression into autism, was placed 
on a gluten-free, casein-free diet, after which she showed marked improvement in 
autistic and medical symptoms. Subsequently, following pubertal onset of 
seizures and after failing to achieve full seizure control pharmacologically she 
was advanced to a ketogenic diet that was customized to continue the 
gluten-free, casein-free regimen. On this diet, while still continuing on 
anticonvulsants, she showed significant improvement in seizure activity. This 
gluten-free casein-free ketogenic diet used medium-chain triglycerides rather 
than butter and cream as its primary source of fat. Medium-chain triglycerides 
are known to be highly ketogenic, and this allowed the use of a lower ratio 
(1.5:1) leaving more calories available for consumption of vegetables with their 
associated health benefits. Secondary benefits included resolution of morbid 
obesity and improvement of cognitive and behavioral features. Over the course of 
several years following her initial diagnosis, the child's Childhood Autism 
Rating Scale score decreased from 49 to 17, representing a change from severe 
autism to nonautistic, and her intelligence quotient increased 70 points. The 
initial electroencephalogram after seizure onset showed lengthy 3 Hz spike-wave 
activity; 14 months after the initiation of the diet the child was essentially 
seizure free and the electroencephalogram showed only occasional 1-1.5 second 
spike-wave activity without clinical accompaniments.

DOI: 10.1177/0883073813488668
PMID: 23666039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


646. Schizophr Bull. 2014 May;40(3):617-25. doi: 10.1093/schbul/sbt058. Epub 2013 May 
10.

Role of visual integration in gaze perception and emotional intelligence in 
schizophrenia.

Tso IF(1), Carp J, Taylor SF, Deldin PJ.

Author information:
(1)*To whom correspondence should be addressed; 4250 Plymouth Road, Ann Arbor, 
MI 48109, US; tel: (734) 232-0373, fax: (734) 736-7868, e-mail: 
ivytso@umich.edu.

BACKGROUND: Individuals with schizophrenia demonstrate a wide range of social 
cognitive deficits that significantly compromise functioning. Early visual 
processing is frequently disrupted in schizophrenia, and growing evidence 
suggests a role of perceptual dysfunctions in socioemotional functioning in the 
disorder. This study examined visual integration (the ability to effectively 
integrate individual, local visual features into a holistic representation), a 
target construct of basic perception identified by the Cognitive Neuroscience 
Treatment Research to Improve Cognition in Schizophrenia initiative, and its 
relationship with eye- contact perception and emotional intelligence in 
schizophrenia.
METHODS: Twenty-nine participants with schizophrenia (SCZ) and 23 healthy 
controls (HC) completed tasks measuring visual integration (Coherent Motion 
Task, Contour Integration Task), an eye-contact perception task, and a measure 
of emotional intelligence.
RESULTS: SCZ participants showed compromised visual integration as suggested by 
poorer performance on the Contour Integration Task relative to HC. Visual 
integration was a significant predictor of eye-contact perception and emotional 
intelligence among SCZ. The amounts of variances in these 2 social cognitive 
areas accounted for by visual integration were comparable to and overlapped with 
those accounted for by the diagnosis of schizophrenia.
CONCLUSIONS: Individuals with schizophrenia showed compromised visual 
integration, and this may play a significant role in the observed deficits in 
higher level processing of social information in the disorder.

DOI: 10.1093/schbul/sbt058
PMCID: PMC3984511
PMID: 23666503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


647. J Appl Res Intellect Disabil. 2014 Mar;27(2):97-111. doi: 10.1111/jar.12055. 
Epub 2013 May 13.

I-CAN: the classification and prediction of support needs.

Arnold SR(1), Riches VC, Stancliffe RJ.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Disability Studies, The University of Sydney, Camperdown, NSW, 
Australia; Faculty of Health Sciences, The University of Sydney, Lidcombe, NSW, 
Australia.

BACKGROUND: Since 1992, the diagnosis and classification of intellectual 
disability has been dependent upon three constructs: intelligence, adaptive 
behaviour and support needs (Luckasson et al. 1992. Mental Retardation: 
Definition, Classification and Systems of Support. American Association on 
Intellectual and Developmental Disability, Washington, DC). While the methods 
and instruments to measure intelligence and adaptive behaviour are well 
established and generally accepted, the measurement and classification of 
support needs is still in its infancy. This article explores the measurement and 
classification of support needs.
METHOD: A study is presented comparing scores on the ICF (WHO, 2001) based I-CAN 
v4.2 support needs assessment and planning tool with expert clinical judgment 
using a proposed classification of support needs. A logical classification 
algorithm was developed and validated on a separate sample.
RESULTS: Good internal consistency (range 0.73-0.91, N = 186) and criterion 
validity (κ = 0.94, n = 49) were found.
CONCLUSIONS: Further advances in our understanding and measurement of support 
needs could change the way we assess, describe and classify disability.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jar.12055
PMID: 23666847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


648. Brain Nerve. 2013 May;65(5):551-9.

[Cognitive function related to temporal lobe epilepsy: advances in research on 
new cognitive function].

[Article in Japanese]

Yamano M(1), Akamatsu N, Tsuji S.

Author information:
(1)Shizuoka Health Care Center, Central Japan Railway Company, Japan.

The importance of neuropsychological examinations in epilepsy care and, 
especially, in epilepsy surgery is centered on the following roles: they offer a 
means to confirm the epileptic focus by multi-modal preoperative assessments and 
they help to assess postoperative functional changes based on preoperative 
cognitive functions. Furthermore, assessments of the cognitive functions of 
patients with epilepsy using various tests aid in providing comprehensive 
medical care. Thus far, research on cognitive functions related to temporal lobe 
epilepsy has focused on memory, language, and general intelligence. However, the 
concept of social cognitive function has been recently proposed in the field of 
neuropsychology. This cognitive function, proposed by Brothers in 1990, is a 
collective term for functions needed in social life; these include functions 
required to interpret the expressions, feelings, and intentions of others and to 
form and maintain smooth human relationships while making decisions necessary 
for self-survival. These functions mainly involve facial expression recognition 
and decision-making. Findings of research on neural mechanisms underlying social 
cognitive functions have emphasized the roles of the cerebral limbic system, 
such as the amygdalo-hippocampal complexes, and the emotional system in the 
ventromedial prefrontal area. Studies on social cognitive functions in mesial 
temporal lobe epilepsy are being pursued currently. Early-onset right mesial 
temporal lobe epilepsy with hippocampal sclerosis is the key substrate 
determining a severe deficit in recognizing emotional facial expressions and 
decision-making. In the future, neuropsychological examinations of social 
cognition, in addition to those of global intelligence, memory, and verbal 
function, will contribute to the provision of comprehensive medical care to 
patients with epilepsy.

PMID: 23667120 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


649. BMJ Open. 2013 May 9;3(5):e002000. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2012-002000.

Cognitive and motor skills in school-aged children following maternal vitamin A 
supplementation during pregnancy in rural Nepal: a follow-up of a 
placebo-controlled, randomised cohort.

Buckley GJ(1), Murray-Kolb LE, Khatry SK, Leclerq SC, Wu L, West KP Jr, 
Christian P.

Author information:
(1)Center for Human Nutrition, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, 
Baltimore, Maryland, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the effects of maternal vitamin A supplementation from 
preconception through postpartum on cognitive and motor development of children 
at 10-13 years of age in rural Nepal.
DESIGN: Follow-up assessment of children born to women randomly assigned by a 
village to receive either supplemental vitamin A (7000 µg retinol equivalents) 
or placebo weekly during a continuous 3.5-year period from 1994-1997. The 
participants came from 12 wards, a subset of 270 wards in the original trial. 
Trained staff tested children for cognition by the Universal Nonverbal 
Intelligence Test (UNIT) and motor ability using four subtests from the Movement 
Assessment Battery for Children (MABC). Data on schooling, home environment and 
nutritional and socioeconomic status were also collected.
SETTING: Southern plains district of Sarlahi, Nepal.
PARTICIPANTS: 390 Nepalese children 10-13 years of age.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Raw scores on UNIT and square-root transformed scores on 
an abridged version of the MABC tests, expressed as cluster-summarised (mean±SD) 
values to account for the design of the original trial.
RESULTS: There were no differences in UNIT (79.61±5.99 vs 80.69±6.71) or MABC 
(2.64±0.07 vs 2.49±0.09) test scores in children whose mothers were exposed to 
vitamin A vs placebo (mean differences: -1.07, 95% CI -7.10 to 9.26, p=0.78; 
0.15, 95% CI 0.43 to -0.08, p=0.15), respectively. More children in the placebo 
group had repeated a grade in school (28% of placebo vs 16.7% of vitamin A, 
p=0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: Preconceptional to postpartum maternal vitamin A supplementation, 
in an undernourished setting, does not improve cognition or motor development at 
ages 10-13 years.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2012-002000
PMCID: PMC3651971
PMID: 23667158


650. BMJ Open. 2013 May 9;3(5):e002772. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2013-002772.

Life-course pathways to psychological distress: a cohort study.

von Stumm S(1), Deary IJ, Hagger-Johnson G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Goldsmiths University of London, London, UK.

OBJECTIVES: Early life factors, like intelligence and socioeconomic status 
(SES), are associated with health outcomes in adulthood. Fitting comprehensive 
life-course models, we tested (1) the effect of childhood intelligence and SES, 
education and adulthood SES on psychological distress at midlife, and (2) 
compared alternative measurement specifications (reflective and formative) of 
SES.
DESIGN: Prospective cohort study (the Aberdeen Children of the 1950s).
SETTING: Aberdeen, Scotland.
PARTICIPANTS: 12 500 live-births (6282 boys) between 1950 and 1956, who were 
followed up in the years 2001-2003 at age 46-51 with a postal questionnaire 
achieving a response rate of 64% (7183).
OUTCOME MEASURES: Psychological distress at age 46-51 (questionnaire).
RESULTS: Childhood intelligence and SES and education had indirect effects on 
psychological distress at midlife, mediated by adult SES. Adult SES was the only 
variable to have a significant direct effect on psychological distress at 
midlife; the effect was stronger in men than in women. Alternative measurement 
specifications of SES (reflective and formative) resulted in greatly different 
model parameters and fits.
CONCLUSIONS: Even though formative operationalisations of SES are theoretically 
appropriate, SES is better specified as reflective than as a formative latent 
variable in the context of life-course modelling.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2013-002772
PMCID: PMC3651977
PMID: 23667162


651. PLoS One. 2013 May 8;8(5):e62415. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0062415. Print 2013.

A multi-platform draft de novo genome assembly and comparative analysis for the 
Scarlet Macaw (Ara macao).

Seabury CM(1), Dowd SE, Seabury PM, Raudsepp T, Brightsmith DJ, Liboriussen P, 
Halley Y, Fisher CA, Owens E, Viswanathan G, Tizard IR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterinary Pathobiology, College of Veterinary Medicine, Texas 
A&M University, College Station, Texas, United States of America. 
cseabury@cvm.tamu.edu

Data deposition to NCBI Genomes: This Whole Genome Shotgun project has been 
deposited at DDBJ/EMBL/GenBank under the accession AMXX00000000 (SMACv1.0, 
unscaffolded genome assembly). The version described in this paper is the first 
version (AMXX01000000). The scaffolded assembly (SMACv1.1) has been deposited at 
DDBJ/EMBL/GenBank under the accession AOUJ00000000, and is also the first 
version (AOUJ01000000). Strong biological interest in traits such as the 
acquisition and utilization of speech, cognitive abilities, and longevity 
catalyzed the utilization of two next-generation sequencing platforms to provide 
the first-draft de novo genome assembly for the large, new world parrot Ara 
macao (Scarlet Macaw). Despite the challenges associated with genome assembly 
for an outbred avian species, including 951,507 high-quality putative single 
nucleotide polymorphisms, the final genome assembly (>1.035 Gb) includes more 
than 997 Mb of unambiguous sequence data (excluding N's). Cytogenetic analyses 
including ZooFISH revealed complex rearrangements associated with two scarlet 
macaw macrochromosomes (AMA6, AMA7), which supports the hypothesis that 
translocations, fusions, and intragenomic rearrangements are key factors 
associated with karyotype evolution among parrots. In silico annotation of the 
scarlet macaw genome provided robust evidence for 14,405 nuclear gene annotation 
models, their predicted transcripts and proteins, and a complete mitochondrial 
genome. Comparative analyses involving the scarlet macaw, chicken, and zebra 
finch genomes revealed high levels of nucleotide-based conservation as well as 
evidence for overall genome stability among the three highly divergent species. 
Application of a new whole-genome analysis of divergence involving all three 
species yielded prioritized candidate genes and noncoding regions for parrot 
traits of interest (i.e., speech, intelligence, longevity) which were 
independently supported by the results of previous human GWAS studies. We also 
observed evidence for genes and noncoding loci that displayed extreme 
conservation across the three avian lineages, thereby reflecting their likely 
biological and developmental importance among birds.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0062415
PMCID: PMC3648530
PMID: 23667475 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have the 
following competing interests to declare. SED runs a sequencing service center 
and was compensated for services, PMS is the brother of CMS and is also an 
unpaid collaborator and employee of ElanTech Inc. ElanTech Inc allows PMS to 
collaborate and participate in peer-reviewed publications. PL is also an unpaid 
collaborator of Dr. Seabury, who designed and validated the original CLC de novo 
assembler. PL is a paid employee of CLC Bio, but owns no stock in CLC Bio. 
Beyond the collaborative relationships stated here, the authors have no 
employment, consultancy, patents, products in development or marketed products 
to declare. This does not alter the authors’ adherence to all the PLOS ONE 
policies on sharing data and materials.


652. Sensors (Basel). 2013 May 13;13(5):6229-53. doi: 10.3390/s130506229.

FTT-MA: a flexible time-triggered middleware architecture for time sensitive, 
resource-aware AmI systems.

Noguero A(1), Calvo I, Pérez F, Almeida L.

Author information:
(1)Tecnalia Research & Innovation, ICT Division, Parque Tecnológico de Bizkaia, 
Zamudio, Spain. adrian.noguero@tecnalia.com

There is an increasing number of Ambient Intelligence (AmI) systems that are 
time-sensitive and resource-aware. From healthcare to building and even 
home/office automation, it is now common to find systems combining interactive 
and sensing multimedia traffic with relatively simple sensors and actuators 
(door locks, presence detectors, RFIDs, HVAC, information panels, etc.). Many of 
these are today known as Cyber-Physical Systems (CPS). Quite frequently, these 
systems must be capable of (1) prioritizing different traffic flows (process 
data, alarms, non-critical data, etc.), (2) synchronizing actions in several 
distributed devices and, to certain degree, (3) easing resource management 
(e.g., detecting faulty nodes, managing battery levels, handling overloads, 
etc.). This work presents FTT-MA, a high-level middleware architecture aimed at 
easing the design, deployment and operation of such AmI systems. FTT-MA ensures 
that both functional and non-functional aspects of the applications are met even 
during reconfiguration stages. The paper also proposes a methodology, together 
with a design tool, to create this kind of systems. Finally, a sample case study 
is presented that illustrates the use of the middleware and the methodology 
proposed in the paper.

DOI: 10.3390/s130506229
PMCID: PMC3690053
PMID: 23669711


653. Arch Toxicol. 2013 Dec;87(12):2105-17. doi: 10.1007/s00204-013-1076-7. Epub 2013 
May 14.

Lanthanum chloride impairs spatial learning and memory and downregulates NF-κB 
signalling pathway in rats.

Zheng L(1), Yang J, Liu Q, Yu F, Wu S, Jin C, Lu X, Zhang L, Du Y, Xi Q, Cai Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Toxicology, School of Public Health, China Medical University, 
92 North 2nd Road, Heping District, Shenyang, 110001, Liaoning, People's 
Republic of China.

Comment in
    Arch Toxicol. 2013 Nov;87(11):2031-5.

Exposure to rare earth elements (REEs) is known to impair intelligence in 
children and cause neurobehavioral abnormalities in animals. However, the 
mechanisms underlying these phenomena are not clear. Lanthanum is often used to 
study the effects of REEs. The aim of this study was to investigate the 
influence of lanthanum chloride (LaCl3) on spatial learning and memory and a 
possible underlying mechanism involving nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) 
signalling pathway expression in the hippocampus. The rats were exposed to 0, 
0.25, 0.50 or 1.00 % LaCl3 in drinking water during pregnancy and lactation 
(i.e. while feeding their offspring). After weaning, young rats continued to 
receive 0, 0.25, 0.50 and 1.00 % LaCl3 in the drinking water for 1 month. LaCl3 
exposure impaired the spatial learning and memory of young rats and 
significantly decreased the expression of phosphorylated IκB kinase complex, 
phosphorylated IκBα, NF-κB, c-fos, c-jun and brain-derived neurotrophic factor 
in the hippocampus. These results indicate that LaCl3 exposure impairs spatial 
learning and memory in rats by inhibiting NF-κB signalling pathway.

DOI: 10.1007/s00204-013-1076-7
PMID: 23670203 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


654. Behav Sci Law. 2013 Jul-Aug;31(4):397-410. doi: 10.1002/bsl.2071. Epub 2013 May 
13.

Investigating the effects of repeated Miranda warnings: do they perform a 
curative function on common Miranda misconceptions?

Rogers R(1), Fiduccia CE, Robinson EV, Steadham JA, Drogin EY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of North Texas, 1155 Union Circle 
#311280, Denton, TX 76203-5017, USA. Richard.Rogers@unt.edu

In Miranda v. Arizona (1966), the Supreme Court of the United States required 
that custodial suspects be apprised of their Constitutional rights against 
self-incrimination. The Court could not have anticipated the rampant 
popularization of Miranda warnings in subsequent movies and television dramas. 
Influenced by public media, many arrestees assume that they already "know" their 
rights, with no awareness of their misconceptions. The current investigation 
examines whether repeated exposures to Miranda warnings performs any "curative" 
function (i.e., dispelling common Miranda misconceptions held by pretrial 
defendants). The accumulative effects of five different Miranda warnings were 
tested over a several-hour period on 260 detainees. For the nearly half (113 or 
43.5%) with three or more misconceptions, improvement (i.e., ≥2 fewer 
misconceptions) occurred for only 35 defendants. Predictably, this improved 
group also tended to display a better understanding of Miranda-relevant 
vocabulary words and a better recall of the administered Miranda warnings than 
their unimproved counterparts. On average, the improved group also performed 
better on general measures of intelligence, and listening and reading 
comprehension, while still evidencing substantial cognitive deficits. The 
curative function of Miranda advisements is considered in light of these 
findings.

Copyright © 2013 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/bsl.2071
PMID: 23670943 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


655. Directed Evolution for Development and Production of Bioactive Agents: A Meeting 
Summary.

Committee on Science and Technology for Defense Warning; Division on Engineering 
and Physical Sciences; National Research Council.

Washington (DC): National Academies Press (US); 2013 May 15.

In 2012, the Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA) approached the National Research 
Council and asked that a committee be formed to develop a list of workshop 
topics to explore the impact of emerging science and technology. One topic that 
came out of that list was directed evolution for development and production of 
bioactive agents. This workshop was held on February 21-22, 2013. Directed 
Evolution for Development and Production of Bioactive Agents explains the 
objectives of the workshop, which were to explore the potential use of directed 
evolution1 for military science and technology. Understanding the current 
research in this area, and the potential opportunities for U.S. adversaries to 
use this research, might allow the DIA to advise U.S. policy makers in an 
appropriate and timely manner. The workshop featured invited presentations and 
discussions that aimed to: -Inform the U.S. intelligence community of the 
current status of directed evolution technology and related research, and 
-Discuss possible approaches involving directed evolution that might be used by 
an adversary to develop toxic biological agents that could pose a threat to the 
United States or its allies, and how they could be identified. Members of the 
Committee on Science and Technology for Defense Warning planned the agenda for 
the workshop, selected the presenters, and helped moderate discussions in which 
meeting participants probed issues of national security related to directed 
evolution in an effort to gain an understanding of potential vulnerabilities. 
Experts were invited from the areas of directed evolution, biosynthesis, 
detection, and biological agents.

Copyright 2013 by the National Academy of Sciences. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.17226/18354
PMID: 24872983


656. PLoS One. 2013 May 10;8(5):e61108. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0061108. Print 
2013.

Neural basis of impaired cognitive flexibility in patients with anorexia 
nervosa.

Sato Y(1), Saito N, Utsumi A, Aizawa E, Shoji T, Izumiyama M, Mushiake H, Hongo 
M, Fukudo S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychosomatic Medicine, Tohoku University Hospital, Sendai, 
Miyagi, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Impaired cognitive flexibility in anorexia nervosa (AN) causes 
clinical problems and makes the disease hard to treat, but its neural basis has 
yet to be fully elucidated. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the brain 
activity of individuals with AN while performing a task requiring cognitive 
flexibility on the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST), which is one of the most 
frequently used neurocognitive measures of cognitive flexibility and 
problem-solving ability.
METHODS: Participants were 15 female AN patients and 15 age- and intelligence 
quotient-matched healthy control women. Participants completed the WCST while 
their brain activity was measured by functional magnetic resonance imaging 
during the task. Brain activation in response to set shifting error feedback and 
the correlation between such brain activity and set shifting performance were 
analyzed.
RESULTS: The correct rate on the WCST was significantly poorer for AN patients 
than for controls. Patients showed poorer activity in the right ventrolateral 
prefrontal cortex and bilateral parahippocampal cortex on set shifting than 
controls. Controls showed a positive correlation between correct rate and 
ventrolateral prefrontal activity in response to set shifting whereas patients 
did not.
CONCLUSION: These findings suggest dysfunction of the ventrolateral prefrontal 
cortex and parahippocampal cortex as a cause of impaired cognitive flexibility 
in AN patients.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0061108
PMCID: PMC3651087
PMID: 23675408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


657. Proc Biol Sci. 2013 May 15;280(1762):20130699. doi: 10.1098/rspb.2013.0699. 
Print 2013 Jul 7.

Cooperation creates selection for tactical deception.

McNally L(1), Jackson AL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Zoology, School of Natural Sciences, Trinity College Dublin, 
Dublin, Republic of Ireland. luke.mcnally@ed.ac.uk

Conditional social behaviours such as partner choice and reciprocity are held to 
be key mechanisms facilitating the evolution of cooperation, particularly in 
humans. Although how these mechanisms select for cooperation has been explored 
extensively, their potential to select simultaneously for complex cheating 
strategies has been largely overlooked. Tactical deception, the 
misrepresentation of the state of the world to another individual, may allow 
cheaters to exploit conditional cooperation by tactically misrepresenting their 
past actions and/or current intentions. Here we first use a simple 
game-theoretic model to show that the evolution of cooperation can create 
selection pressures favouring the evolution of tactical deception. This effect 
is driven by deception weakening cheater detection in conditional cooperators, 
allowing tactical deceivers to elicit cooperation at lower costs, while simple 
cheats are recognized and discriminated against. We then provide support for our 
theoretical predictions using a comparative analysis of deception across primate 
species. Our results suggest that the evolution of conditional strategies may, 
in addition to promoting cooperation, select for astute cheating and associated 
psychological abilities. Ultimately, our ability to convincingly lie to each 
other may have evolved as a direct result of our cooperative nature.

DOI: 10.1098/rspb.2013.0699
PMCID: PMC3673056
PMID: 23677345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


658. Mens Sana Monogr. 2013 Jan;11(1):151-209. doi: 10.4103/0973-1229.109341.

Towards an integrative theory of consciousness: part 2 (an anthology of various 
other models).

De Sousa A(1).

Author information:
(1)Consultant Psychiatrist and Psychotherapist, Mumbai, India.

The study of consciousness has today moved beyond neurobiology and cognitive 
models. In the past few years, there has been a surge of research into various 
newer areas. The present article looks at the non-neurobiological and 
non-cognitive theories regarding this complex phenomenon, especially ones that 
self-psychology, self-theory, artificial intelligence, quantum physics, visual 
cognitive science and philosophy have to offer. Self-psychology has proposed the 
need to understand the self and its development, and the ramifications of the 
self for morality and empathy, which will help us understand consciousness 
better. There have been inroads made from the fields of computer science, 
machine technology and artificial intelligence, including robotics, into 
understanding the consciousness of these machines and their implications for 
human consciousness. These areas are explored. Visual cortex and emotional 
theories along with their implications are discussed. The phylogeny and 
evolution of the phenomenon of consciousness is also highlighted, with theories 
on the emergence of consciousness in fetal and neonatal life. Quantum physics 
and its insights into the mind, along with the implications of consciousness and 
physics and their interface are debated. The role of neurophilosophy to 
understand human consciousness, the functions of such a concept, embodiment, the 
dark side of consciousness, future research needs and limitations of a 
scientific theory of consciousness complete the review. The importance and 
salient features of each theory are discussed along with certain pitfalls, if 
present. A need for the integration of various theories to understand 
consciousness from a holistic perspective is stressed.

DOI: 10.4103/0973-1229.109341
PMCID: PMC3653220
PMID: 23678242

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: None declared.


659. Mens Sana Monogr. 2013 Jan;11(1):239-52. doi: 10.4103/0973-1229.109345.

The embodied embedded character of system 1 processing.

Bellini-Leite Sde C(1).

Author information:
(1)M.A. in Philosophy at State University of São Paulo (UNESP), Brazil.

In the last thirty years, a relatively large group of cognitive scientists have 
begun characterising the mind in terms of two distinct, relatively autonomous 
systems. To account for paradoxes in empirical results of studies mainly on 
reasoning, Dual Process Theories were developed. Such Dual Process Theories 
generally agree that System 1 is rapid, automatic, parallel, and heuristic-based 
and System 2 is slow, capacity-demanding, sequential, and related to 
consciousness. While System 2 can still be decently understood from a 
traditional cognitivist approach, I will argue that it is essential for System 1 
processing to be comprehended in an Embodied Embedded approach to Cognition.

DOI: 10.4103/0973-1229.109345
PMCID: PMC3653224
PMID: 23678245

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: None Declared.


660. Mater Sociomed. 2013;25(1):40-3. doi: 10.5455/msm.2013.25.40-43.

Cultural Intelligence and Social Adaptability: A Comparison between Iranian and 
Non-Iranian Dormitory Students of Isfahan University of Medical Sciences.

Soltani B(1), Keyvanara M.

Author information:
(1)Islamic Azad University Khorasgan Branch, Azad, Iran.

INTRODUCTION: At the modern age, to acquire knowledge and experience, the 
individuals with their own specific culture have to enter contexts with cultural 
diversity, adapt to different cultures and have social interactions to be able 
to have effective inter-cultural relationships.To have such intercultural 
associations and satisfy individual needs in the society, cultural intelligence 
and social adaptability are deemed as inevitable requirements, in particular for 
those who enter a quite different culture. Hence, the present study tries to 
compare the cultural intelligence and its aspects and social adaptability in 
Iranian and non-Iranian dormitory students of Isfahan University of Medical 
Sciences in 2012.
METHODOLOGY: The study was of descriptiveanalytical nature. The research 
population consisted of Iranian and non-Iranian students resided in the 
dormitories of Isfahan University of Medical Sciences which are 2500, totally. 
For Iranian students, two-stage sampling method was adopted. At the first stage, 
classified sampling and at the second stage, systematic random sampling was 
conducted. In this way, 441 students were selected. To form non-Iranian 
students' sample, consensus sampling method was applied and a sample of 37 
students were obtained. The research data was collected by using Earley & Ang's 
Cultural Intelligence Questionnaire with the Cronbach's coefficient α of 76% and 
California Social Adaptability Standard Questionnaire with the Cronbach's 
coefficient α of over 70%. Then, the data were put into SPSS software to be 
analyzed. Finally, the results were presented by descriptive and inferential 
statistics methods.
RESULTS: The study findings revealed that there was no statistically significant 
difference between cultural intelligence and cognitive aspect of cultural 
intelligence in Iranian and non-Iranian students (P≥0/05). However, Iranian and 
non-Iranian students statistically differed in terms of the following aspects of 
cultural intelligence: meta-cognitive aspect (61.8% for Iranian students vs. 
47.6% for non-Iranians), motivational aspect (59.0% vs. 42.6%), behavioral 
aspect (31.8% vs. 41.2%) as well as social adaptability as the other variable in 
question ( 68.9% vs. 56.2%) (p<0.001).
CONCLUSION: The comparison of the mean scores gained for meta-cognitive and 
motivational aspects of cultural intelligence as well as social adaptability in 
Iranian and non-Iranian students resided in the dormitories of Isfahan 
University of Medical Sciences revealed that the Iranian students had the higher 
rank. On the other hand, the mean score acquired for the behavioral aspect in 
Iranian and non-Iranian students were comparable, with non-Iranian students 
having the higher mean scores. Therefore, it can be said that the meta-cognitive 
and motivational aspects of cultural intelligence and social adaptability of 
non-Iranian students and the behavioral aspect of Iranian students' cultural 
intelligence may be promoted by educational planning, thereby, taking effective 
steps towards their achievement in contexts with inter-cultural interaction . In 
this way, their mental health will be enhanced, as well.

DOI: 10.5455/msm.2013.25.40-43
PMCID: PMC3633545
PMID: 23678339


661. Psychol Sci. 2013 Jul 1;24(7):1198-207. doi: 10.1177/0956797612470959. Epub 2013 
May 15.

Retinal vessel caliber and lifelong neuropsychological functioning: retinal 
imaging as an investigative tool for cognitive epidemiology.

Shalev I(1), Moffitt TE, Wong TY, Meier MH, Houts RM, Ding J, Cheung CY, Ikram 
MK, Caspi A, Poulton R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology and Neuroscience, Duke University, 2020 West Main 
St., Suite 201, Grey Building, Durham, NC 27708, USA. idan.shalev@duke.edu

Why do more intelligent people live healthier and longer lives? One possibility 
is that intelligence tests assess health of the brain, but psychological science 
has lacked technology to evaluate this hypothesis. Digital retinal imaging, a 
new, noninvasive method to visualize microcirculation in the eye, may reflect 
vascular conditions in the brain. We studied the association between retinal 
vessel caliber and neuropsychological functioning in the representative Dunedin 
birth cohort. Wider venular caliber was associated with poorer 
neuropsychological functioning at midlife, independently of potentially 
confounding factors. This association was not limited to any specific test 
domain and extended to informants' reports of cohort members' cognitive 
difficulties in everyday life. Moreover, wider venular caliber was associated 
with lower childhood IQ tested 25 years earlier. The findings indicate that 
retinal venular caliber may be an indicator of neuropsychological health years 
before the onset of dementing diseases and suggest that digital retinal imaging 
may be a useful investigative tool for psychological science.

DOI: 10.1177/0956797612470959
PMCID: PMC3713191
PMID: 23678508 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


662. Phys Rev Lett. 2013 Apr 19;110(16):168702. doi: 10.1103/PhysRevLett.110.168702. 
Epub 2013 Apr 19.

Causal entropic forces.

Wissner-Gross AD(1), Freer CE.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Applied Computational Science, Harvard University, Cambridge, 
Massachusetts 02138, USA. alexwg@post.harvard.edu

Recent advances in fields ranging from cosmology to computer science have hinted 
at a possible deep connection between intelligence and entropy maximization, but 
no formal physical relationship between them has yet been established. Here, we 
explicitly propose a first step toward such a relationship in the form of a 
causal generalization of entropic forces that we find can cause two defining 
behaviors of the human "cognitive niche"-tool use and social cooperation-to 
spontaneously emerge in simple physical systems. Our results suggest a 
potentially general thermodynamic model of adaptive behavior as a nonequilibrium 
process in open systems.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevLett.110.168702
PMID: 23679649


663. Seizure. 2013 Oct;22(8):611-6. doi: 10.1016/j.seizure.2013.04.010. Epub 2013 May 
14.

Epidemiology of uncontrolled epilepsy in the Al-Kharga District, New Valley, 
Egypt.

Farghaly WM(1), El-Tallawy HN, Rageh TA, Mohamed EM, Metwally NA, Shehata GA, 
Badry R, Abd-Elhamed MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology & Psychiatry, Assiut University, Egypt. 
wafmaf2002@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND: Despite advances in treating epilepsy, uncontrolled epilepsy 
continues to be a major clinical problem. Therefore, this work aimed to study 
the epidemiology of uncontrolled epilepsy in Al-Kharga District, New Valley.
METHODS: This study was carried out in 3 stages via door-to-door screening of 
the total population (62,583 persons). All suspected cases of epilepsy were 
subjected to case ascertainment, conventional ElectroEncephaloGraphy (EEG), and 
the Stanford-Binet Intelligence Scale. Patients who had been receiving suitable 
anti-epileptic drugs (AEDs) over the previous 6 months and were having active 
seizures were considered uncontrolled, according to Ohtsuka et al.(23) The 
patients underwent serum AED level estimation, video EEG monitoring, and brain 
MRIs. Fifty age- and gender-matched patients with controlled epilepsy were 
chosen for statistical analysis and compared with true intractable patients.
RESULTS: A total of 437 patients with epilepsy were identified, 30.7% of whom 
(n=134/437) were uncontrolled, with a prevalence of 2.1/1000. A total of 52.2% 
of uncontrolled patients (n=70/134) were inappropriately treated, while 47.8% 
(n=64/134) were compliant with appropriate treatments. Video monitoring EEG of 
compliant uncontrolled patients demonstrated that 78.1% patients (n=50/64) had 
definite epilepsy, while 21.9% (n=14/64) had psychogenic non-epileptic seizures 
(PNES). A logistic regression analysis revealed that status epilepticus, focal 
seizures, and mixed seizure types were risk factors for intractability.

Copyright © 2013 British Epilepsy Association. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.seizure.2013.04.010
PMID: 23680080 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


664. Epidemiology. 2013 Jul;24(4):590-9. doi: 10.1097/EDE.0b013e3182944432.

Perfluorooctanoate and neuropsychological outcomes in children.

Stein CR(1), Savitz DA, Bellinger DC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, 
NY 10029–6574, USA. cheryl.stein@mssm.edu

BACKGROUND: In animal studies, perfluorinated compounds affect fetal growth, 
development, viability, and postnatal growth. The limited epidemiologic findings 
on child neurobehavioral development are mixed.
METHODS: We recruited and evaluated 320 children who participated in the C8 
Health Project, a 2005-2006 survey in a Mid-Ohio Valley community highly exposed 
to perfluorooctanoate (PFOA) through contaminated drinking water. We examined 
associations among estimated in utero PFOA exposure, measured childhood PFOA 
serum concentration, and subsequent performance on neuropsychological tests 3-4 
years later at ages 6-12 years. We assessed Intelligence Quotient (IQ) reading 
and math skills, language, memory and learning, visual-spatial processing, and 
attention. All multivariable linear regression models were adjusted for age, 
sex, home environment, test examiner, and maternal IQ. Models with measured 
childhood PFOA were additionally adjusted for child body mass index.
RESULTS: Children in the highest as compared with lowest quartile of estimated 
in utero PFOA had increases in Full Scale IQ (β 4.6, 95% confidence interval 
[CI] = 0.7-8.5) and decreases in characteristics of attention 
deficit/hyperactivity disorder as measured by the Clinical Confidence Index of 
Connors' Continuous Performance Test-II (β -8.5, 95% CI = -16.1 to -0.8). There 
were negligible associations between PFOA and reading or math skills or 
neuropsychological functioning.
CONCLUSION: These results do not suggest an adverse association between the 
levels of PFOA exposure experienced by children in this cohort and their 
performance on neuropsychological tests.

DOI: 10.1097/EDE.0b013e3182944432
PMCID: PMC4020323
PMID: 23680941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


665. Sensors (Basel). 2013 May 16;13(5):6492-523. doi: 10.3390/s130506492.

An easy to deploy street light control system based on wireless communication 
and LED technology.

Elejoste P(1), Angulo I, Perallos A, Chertudi A, Zuazola IJ, Moreno A, 
Azpilicueta L, Astrain JJ, Falcone F, Villadangos J.

Author information:
(1)Deusto Institute of Technology (DeustoTech), University of Deusto, Bilbao 
48007, Spain. perallos@deusto.es

This paper presents an intelligent streetlight management system based on LED 
lamps, designed to facilitate its deployment in existing facilities. The 
proposed approach, which is based on wireless communication technologies, will 
minimize the cost of investment of traditional wired systems, which always need 
civil engineering for burying of cable underground and consequently are more 
expensive than if the connection of the different nodes is made over the air. 
The deployed solution will be aware of their surrounding's environmental 
conditions, a fact that will be approached for the system intelligence in order 
to learn, and later, apply dynamic rules. The knowledge of real time 
illumination needs, in terms of instant use of the street in which it is 
installed, will also feed our system, with the objective of providing tangible 
solutions to reduce energy consumption according to the contextual needs, an 
exact calculation of energy consumption and reliable mechanisms for preventive 
maintenance of facilities.

DOI: 10.3390/s130506492
PMCID: PMC3690067
PMID: 23681092


666. J Health Psychol. 2014 Aug;19(8):1035-42. doi: 10.1177/1359105313483157. Epub 
2013 May 16.

Emotional intelligence, personality, and gender as factors in disordered eating 
patterns.

Zysberg L(1).

Author information:
(1)Betty Irene Moore School of Nursing, University of California, Davis, CA, 
USA; Department of Psychology Tel Hai College, Tel Hai, Israel 
leehuzysberg@yahoo.com.

We examined the hypotheses that proposing higher levels of emotional 
intelligence (ability test and self-report) and lower neuroticism, extraversion, 
and agreeableness associate with lower levels of disordered eating. In a 
correlational study, 126 Israeli college students completed two measures of 
emotional intelligence, a brief five-factor personality test, demographic data 
questionnaires, and questionnaires assessing food preoccupation, namely, the 
Body Weight, Image and Self-Esteem Scale and the Appearance Schema Inventory. 
Results suggested that ability emotional intelligence is associated with 
disordered eating beyond gender and personality. Self-reported emotional 
intelligence did not associate with any of the outcomes after controlling for 
personality. Implications and applications are briefly discussed.

© The Author(s) 2013.

DOI: 10.1177/1359105313483157
PMID: 23682062 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


667. Alcohol Clin Exp Res. 2013 Oct;37(10):1794-803. doi: 10.1111/acer.12140. Epub 
2013 May 17.

Neurocognition in 1-month-abstinent treatment-seeking alcohol-dependent 
individuals: interactive effects of age and chronic cigarette smoking.

Durazzo TC(1), Pennington DL, Schmidt TP, Mon A, Abé C, Meyerhoff DJ.

Author information:
(1)Center for Imaging of Neurodegenerative Diseases (CIND) , San Francisco VA 
Medical Center, San Francisco, California; Department of Radiology and 
Biomedical Imaging, University of California, San Francisco, California.

BACKGROUND: Increasing age and chronic cigarette smoking are independently 
associated with adverse effects on multiple aspects of neurocognition in those 
seeking treatment for alcohol use disorders. However, the potential interactive 
effects of age and cigarette smoking on neurocognition in early abstinent 
alcohol-dependent individuals (ALC) have not investigated.
METHODS: Cross-sectional performances of never-smoking healthy comparison 
participants (nvsCOM; n = 39) and 1-month-abstinent, treatment-seeking, 
never-smoking (nvsALC; n = 30), former-smoking (fsALC; n = 21), and actively 
smoking (asALC; n = 68) ALC were compared on a comprehensive neurocognitive 
battery. Domains of functioning evaluated were cognitive efficiency, executive 
functions, fine motor skills, general intelligence, learning and memory, 
processing speed, visuospatial functions and working memory. Participants were 
between 26 and 71 years of age at the time of assessment.
RESULTS: asALC showed steeper age-related effects than nvsCOM on the domains of 
visuospatial learning, auditory-verbal memory, cognitive efficiency, executive 
functions, processing speed, and fine motor skills. In pairwise comparisons, 
fsALC and asALC performed more poorly than both nvsCOM and nvsALC on multiple 
domains; nvsCOM and nvsALC showed no significant differences. Domain scores for 
the ALC groups generally fell in the low-to-high-average range of functioning. A 
clinically significant level of impairment was apparent in only 25% of ALC 
participants on visuospatial learning, visuospatial memory, and fine motor 
skills domains. Measures of alcohol use or consumption were not significantly 
related to neurocognition in the ALC cohorts.
CONCLUSIONS: The age-related findings suggest that the combination of active 
chronic smoking and alcohol dependence in this 1-month-abstinent ALC cohort was 
associated with greater than normal age-related effects in multiple domains. In 
general, a low level of clinically significant impairment was observed in the 
alcohol-dependent participants. The findings from this study, in conjunction 
with previous research, strongly support smoking cessation interventions for 
those seeking treatment for alcohol and substance use disorders.

Copyright © 2013 by the Research Society on Alcoholism.

DOI: 10.1111/acer.12140
PMCID: PMC3749254
PMID: 23682867 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


668. Patient Educ Couns. 2013 Aug;92(2):218-22. doi: 10.1016/j.pec.2013.04.013. Epub 
2013 May 14.

'What matters to Andrew'. The problem of premissary relevance in automated 
health advisors. Insights from pragma-dialectics.

Rubinelli S(1), Labrie NH, O'Keefe DJ.

Author information:
(1)University of Lucerne and Swiss Paraplegic Research, Department of Health 
Sciences and Health Policy, Lucerne, Switzerland. sara.rubinelli@unilu.ch

OBJECTIVE: To influence health behavior, communication has to be relevant on an 
individual level and, thus, fulfill the requirement of premissary relevance. 
This paper attempts to enrich the design of automated health advisors by, first, 
reviewing main solutions to the challenge of premissary relevance found in the 
literature and, second, highlighting the value in this field of the theory of 
argumentation known as pragma-dialectics.
METHODS: A conceptual paper grounded in persuasion research and argumentation 
theory.
RESULTS: Automated health advisors enable argumentative exchanges with users. 
But there is a need to design these systems as to make them work in an 
audience-centered perspective. The theory of pragma-dialectics can be used to 
analyze the factors that favor or hinder the agreement of users to engage in 
certain health behaviors, and to identify argumentation strategies targeted to 
behavior change.
CONCLUSION: Pragma-dialectics can be used to enhance the design of automated 
health advisors as it operationalizes the dialogical nature of the reasoning 
process that can influence health behavior.
PRACTICE IMPLICATIONS: Premissary relevance is a challenge of communication for 
health promotion at large that can be promisingly addressed through synergies 
among persuasion research, argumentation theory and Artificial Intelligence.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pec.2013.04.013
PMID: 23683339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


669. Patient Educ Couns. 2013 Aug;92(2):205-10. doi: 10.1016/j.pec.2013.04.014. Epub 
2013 May 15.

Artificial intelligence and immediacy: designing health communication to 
personally engage consumers and providers.

Kreps GL(1), Neuhauser L.

Author information:
(1)George Mason University, Fairfax, VA 22030, USA. gkreps@gmu.edu

OBJECTIVE: We describe how ehealth communication programs can be improved by 
using artificial intelligence (AI) to increase immediacy.
METHODS: We analyzed major deficiencies in ehealth communication programs, 
illustrating how programs often fail to fully engage audiences and can even have 
negative consequences by undermining the effective delivery of information 
intended to guide health decision-making and influence adoption of 
health-promoting behaviors. We examined the use of AI in ehealth practices to 
promote immediacy and provided examples from the ChronologyMD project.
RESULTS: Strategic use of AI is shown to help enhance immediacy in ehealth 
programs by making health communication more engaging, relevant, exciting, and 
actionable.
CONCLUSION: AI can enhance the "immediacy" of ehealth by humanizing health 
promotion efforts, promoting physical and emotional closeness, increasing 
authenticity and enthusiasm in health promotion efforts, supporting personal 
involvement in communication interactions, increasing exposure to relevant 
messages, reducing demands on healthcare staff, improving program efficiency, 
and minimizing costs.
PRACTICE IMPLICATIONS: User-centered AI approaches, such as the use of 
personally involving verbal and nonverbal cues, natural language translation, 
virtual coaches, and comfortable human-computer interfaces can promote active 
information processing and adoption of new ideas. Immediacy can improve 
information access, trust, sharing, motivation, and behavior changes.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pec.2013.04.014
PMID: 23683341 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


670. Contraception. 2013 Nov;88(5):604-10. doi: 10.1016/j.contraception.2013.04.001. 
Epub 2013 Apr 11.

The creeping Pearl: Why has the rate of contraceptive failure increased in 
clinical trials of combined hormonal contraceptive pills?

Trussell J(1), Portman D.

Author information:
(1)Office of Population Research, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544; The 
Hull York Medical School, Hull, England HU6 7RX.

BACKGROUND: Despite several drawbacks, the Pearl Index continues to be the most 
widely used statistical measure of contraceptive failure. However, Pearl indices 
reported in studies of newer hormonal contraceptives appear to be increasing.
STUDY DESIGN: We searched PubMed and Medical Intelligence Solutions databases 
for prospective trials evaluating oral contraceptive (OC) efficacy to examine 
potential factors that could contribute to increasing Pearl indices.
RESULTS: Numerous potential factors were identified, including an increased rate 
of failures of newer OCs, deficiencies in methods of calculating contraceptive 
failure rates, differences in study design and changes in patient populations 
resulting in increased rates of contraceptive failures due to the inappropriate 
or inconsistent use of the method.
CONCLUSIONS: The two most likely important contributors to the increase in Pearl 
indices are more frequent pregnancy testing with more sensitive tests and less 
adherent study populations. Because study populations appear to be increasingly 
representative of the likely actual users once the product is marketed, we can 
expect to see even higher failure rates in ongoing and future studies. This 
result poses challenges for companies and regulatory agencies.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.contraception.2013.04.001
PMCID: PMC3795840
PMID: 23683581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest/Disclosure Statement James 
Trussell is a consultant for Bayer and served on an advisory board for Merck. 
David Portman has received research grant funding from and is a consultant and 
on the speaker’s bureau for Teva.


671. Forensic Sci Int. 2013 Jun 10;229(1-3):23-6. doi: 
10.1016/j.forsciint.2013.03.026. Epub 2013 Apr 11.

Trends in counterfeits amphetamine-type stimulants after its prohibition in 
Brazil.

Mariotti Kde C(1), Ortiz RS, Souza DZ, Mileski TC, Fröehlich PE, Limberger RP.

Author information:
(1)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Ciências Farmacêuticas, Faculdade de Farmácia, 
Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul, 2752 Ipiranga Avenue, Santana, 
90610-000 Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. krismariotti@gmail.com

Brazil is one of the world's highest users of anorectic drugs, mainly 
diethylpropione, fenproporex and sibutramine. The present work focuses on 
physical and chemical characteristics of 17 counterfeited capsules containing 
amphetamine-type stimulants (ATS) from three seizures conducted by Brazilian 
Federal Police. The physical profile was useful in indicating forgery, bring 
complementary information, but the use of this data singly was not sufficient to 
distinguish between authentic and counterfeited medicines. The chemical analysis 
revealed that the seizures capsules labeled as Desobesi-M (fenproporex 25mg), 
actually contained the active pharmaceutical ingrediente (API) sibutramine. The 
amount of this API ranged from 1/3 to 2 times the amount of drug found in 
commercial product, may reach twice the recommended daily dose. Multivariate 
analysis with application of principal component analysis on data from 
spectroscopy attenuated total reflectance Fourier transform infrared classified 
the samples according to their similarities, indicating that two seizures had 
common origin. This study represents the first step in the elucidation of 
falsification of ATS in Brazil. Considering the forensic intelligence these 
information are valuable in order to develop and establish a database that 
enables correlate samples from different locations and/or suppliers and to map 
the profile and trends of trafficking.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.forsciint.2013.03.026
PMID: 23683905


672. Forensic Sci Int. 2013 Jun 10;229(1-3):108-15. doi: 
10.1016/j.forsciint.2013.03.046. Epub 2013 Apr 24.

Forensic profiling of sassafras oils based on comprehensive two-dimensional gas 
chromatography.

Schäffer M(1), Gröger T, Pütz M, Zimmermann R.

Author information:
(1)Comprehensive Molecular Analytics, Helmholtz Zentrum München, German Research 
Center for Environmental Health, Ingolstädter Landstr. 1, 85764 Neuherberg, 
Germany.

Safrole, the main compound in the essential oil of several plants of the Laurel 
family (Lauraceae), and its secondary product piperonylmethylketone are the 
predominantly used precursors for the illicit synthesis of 
3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) which is, in turn, the most common 
active ingredient in Ecstasy tablets. Analytical methods with adequate capacity 
to identify links and origin of precursors, such as safrole, provide valuable 
information for drug-related police intelligence. Authentic sassafras oil 
samples from police seizures were subjected to comparative analysis based on 
their chemical profiles obtained by comprehensive two-dimensional gas 
chromatography time-of-flight mass spectrometry (GC × GC-TOFMS). The enhanced 
separation power and increased sensitivity of GC × GC allowed for the detection 
of minor compounds present in the essential oils which were of particular 
interest in case of very pure samples whose impurity profiles were not very 
pronounced. Discrimination of such samples was still possible even in the 
absence of characteristic main compounds.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.forsciint.2013.03.046
PMID: 23683915 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


673. Forensic Sci Int. 2013 Jun 10;229(1-3):133-44. doi: 
10.1016/j.forsciint.2013.04.009. Epub 2013 May 4.

Perspectives for Forensic Intelligence in anti-doping: thinking outside of the 
box.

Marclay F(1), Mangin P, Margot P, Saugy M.

Author information:
(1)Swiss Laboratory for Doping Analyses, University Center of Legal Medecine, 
Geneva and Lausanne, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire Vaudois and University of 
Lausanne, Ch. des Croisettes 22, 1066 Epalinges, Switzerland. 
francois.marclay@chuv.ch

Today's approach to anti-doping is mostly centered on the judicial process, 
despite pursuing a further goal in the detection, reduction, solving and/or 
prevention of doping. Similarly to decision-making in the area of law 
enforcement feeding on Forensic Intelligence, anti-doping might significantly 
benefit from a more extensive gathering of knowledge. Forensic Intelligence 
might bring a broader logical dimension to the interpretation of data on doping 
activities for a more future-oriented and comprehensive approach instead of the 
traditional case-based and reactive process. Information coming from a variety 
of sources related to doping, whether directly or potentially, would feed an 
organized memory to provide real time intelligence on the size, seriousness and 
evolution of the phenomenon. Due to the complexity of doping, integrating 
analytical chemical results and longitudinal monitoring of biomarkers with 
physiological, epidemiological, sociological or circumstantial information might 
provide a logical framework enabling fit for purpose decision-making. Therefore, 
Anti-Doping Intelligence might prove efficient at providing a more proactive 
response to any potential or emerging doping phenomenon or to address existing 
problems with innovative actions or/and policies. This approach might prove 
useful to detect, neutralize, disrupt and/or prevent organized doping or the 
trafficking of doping agents, as well as helping to refine the targeting of 
athletes or teams. In addition, such an intelligence-led methodology would serve 
to address doping offenses in the absence of adverse analytical chemical 
evidence.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.forsciint.2013.04.009
PMID: 23683919 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


674. Psychiatry Res. 2013 Oct 30;209(3):401-5. doi: 10.1016/j.psychres.2013.04.009. 
Epub 2013 May 15.

Short-term remission in schizophrenia as a combination of several outcome 
measures.

Stratta P(1), Rossi A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Mental Health, ASL 1, Via Bellisari, 67100 L'Aquila, Italy. 
Electronic address: psystr@tin.it.

Clinical, cognitive, metabolic and functioning variables have been evaluated in 
patients with schizophrenia in an 8-week trial with Ziprasidone. The aim of this 
post-hoc analysis is to investigate how these variables interact in determining 
short-term remission. Baseline values or the variation from baseline to endpoint 
were considered predictors. 262 schizophrenic patients were recruited. Two 
logistic regressions were conducted to determine which variables predict 
remission. The first was performed on baseline values as predictors. The second 
used the variation from baseline to endpoint (delta) of the outcome evaluations 
as predictors. Using literature reported criteria for remission, we 
distinguished 124 subjects (47.33%) in remission, and 138 not in remission at 
the end of the trial. The first logistic regression does not show a good fit. 
The second logistic regression, with delta scores as predictors, reports instead 
an overall good fit (71.8% of the predicted cases assigned to the right 
category). The analysis reveals that general score from Positive and Negative 
Syndrome Scale (PANSS), cholesterol LDL, subjective well-being under 
neuroleptic, Simpson-Angus Scale (SAS) delta scores, drug dosage and premorbid 
intelligence entered in the equation. These results suggest that indexes such as 
cognition, metabolic status, other than symptoms, have to be taken into account 
in order to refine the short-term remission prediction.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2013.04.009
PMID: 23684054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


675. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2013 Aug 6;62(6):531-9. doi: 10.1016/j.jacc.2013.03.073. Epub 
2013 May 15.

Subtle post-procedural cognitive dysfunction after atrial fibrillation ablation.

Medi C(1), Evered L, Silbert B, Teh A, Halloran K, Morton J, Kistler P, Kalman 
J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, The Royal Melbourne Hospital, Melbourne, Australia.

Comment in
    J Am Coll Cardiol. 2013 Aug 6;62(6):540-2.

OBJECTIVES: This study sought to determine whether post-operative neurocognitive 
dysfunction (POCD) occurs after ablation for atrial fibrillation (AF).
BACKGROUND: Ablation for AF is a highly effective strategy; however, the risk of 
transient ischemic attack and stroke is approximately 0.5% to 1%. In addition, 
magnetic resonance imaging studies report a 7% to 14% prevalence of silent 
cerebral infarction. Whether cerebral ischemia results in POCD after ablation 
for AF is not well established.
METHODS: The study included 150 patients; 60 patients undergoing ablation for 
paroxysmal atrial fibrillation (PAF), 30 patients undergoing ablation for 
persistent atrial fibrillation (PeAF), and 30 patients undergoing ablation for 
supraventricular tachycardia (SVT) were compared with a matched nonoperative 
control group of patients with AF awaiting radiofrequency ablation (n = 30). 
Eight neuropsychological tests were administered at baseline and at 2 days and 
90 days post-operatively. The tests were administered at the same time points to 
the nonoperative control group. The reliable change index was used to calculate 
POCD.
RESULTS: The prevalences of POCD at day 2 post-procedure were 28% in patients 
with PAF, 27% in patients with PeAF, 13% in patients with SVT, and 0% in control 
patients with AF (p = 0.007). At day 90, the prevalences of POCD were 13% in 
patients with PAF, 20% in patients with PeAF, 3% in patients with SVT, and 0% in 
control patients with AF (p = 0.03). When analyzing the 3 procedural groups 
together, 29 of 120 patients (24%) manifested POCD at day 2 and 15 of 120 
patients (13%) at day 90 post-procedure (p = 0.029). On univariate analysis, 
increasing left atrial access time was associated with POCD at day 2 (p = 0.04) 
and day 90 (p = 0.03).
CONCLUSIONS: Ablation for AF is associated with a 13% to 20% prevalence of POCD 
in patients with AF at long-term follow-up. These results were seen in a patient 
population with predominant CHADS2 (Congestive heart failure, Hypertension, 
Age ≥75 years, Diabetes mellitus, previous Stroke/transient ischemic attack) 
scores of 0 to 1, representing the majority of patients undergoing ablation for 
AF. The long-term implications of these subtle changes require further study.

Copyright © 2013 American College of Cardiology Foundation. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jacc.2013.03.073
PMID: 23684686 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


676. Soc Cogn Affect Neurosci. 2014 Jul;9(7):939-50. doi: 10.1093/scan/nst067. Epub 
2013 May 17.

From neural signatures of emotional modulation to social cognition: individual 
differences in healthy volunteers and psychiatric participants.

Ibáñez A(1), Aguado J(2), Baez S(2), Huepe D(2), Lopez V(2), Ortega R(1), Sigman 
M(1), Mikulan E(2), Lischinsky A(2), Torrente F(2), Cetkovich M(2), Torralva 
T(2), Bekinschtein T(2), Manes F(2).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Experimental Psychology and Neuroscience (LPEN), Institute of 
Cognitive Neurology (INECO), Favaloro University, Buenos Aires, Argentina, 
Laboratory of Cognitive and Social Neuroscience (LANCYS), UDP-INECO Foundation 
Core on Neuroscience (NUFIN), Universidad Diego Portales, Santiago, Chile, 
National Scientific and Technical Research Council (CONICET), Buenos Aires, 
Argentina, Parc Sanitari Joan de Deu-SSM, CIBERSAM, Universitat de Barcelona, 
Sant Boi, Barcelona, Spain, Escuela de Psicología, Facultad de Ciencias 
Sociales, Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile, Santiago, Chile, Laboratorio 
de Neurociencia Cognitiva, Departamento de Psiquiatría, Facultad de Medicina, y 
Centro Interdisciplinario de Neurociencia, Pontificia Universidad Católica de 
Chile, Santiago, Chile, Programa de Doctorado en Psicología, Departamento de 
Psicología, Facultad de Ciencias Sociales, Universidad de Chile, Santiago, 
Chile, Departamento de Física, FCEN, UBA and IFIBA, Conicet, Pabellón 1, Ciudad 
Universitaria, 1428 Buenos Aires, Argentina, Universidad Torcuato Di Tella, 
Alte. Juan Saenz Valiente 1010, Buenos Aires C1428BIJ, Argentina, and MRC 
Cognition and Brain Sciences Unit, Cambridge, UKLaboratory of Experimental 
Psychology and Neuroscience (LPEN), Institute of Cognitive Neurology (INECO), 
Favaloro University, Buenos Aires, Argentina, Laboratory of Cognitive and Social 
Neuroscience (LANCYS), UDP-INECO Foundation Core on Neuroscience (NUFIN), 
Universidad Diego Portales, Santiago, Chile, National Scientific and Technical 
Research Council (CONICET), Buenos Aires, Argentina, Parc Sanitari Joan de 
Deu-SSM, CIBERSAM, Universitat de Barcelona, Sant Boi, Barcelona, Spain, Escuela 
de Psicología, Facultad de Ciencias Sociales, Pontificia Universidad Católica de 
Chile, Santiago, Chile, Laboratorio de Neurociencia Cognitiva, Departamento de 
Psiquiatría, Facultad de Medicina, y Centro Interdisciplinario de Neurociencia, 
Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile, Santiago, C
(2)Laboratory of Experimental Psychology and Neuroscience (LPEN), Institute of 
Cognitive Neurology (INECO), Favaloro University, Buenos Aires, Argentina, 
Laboratory of Cognitive and Social Neuroscience (LANCYS), UDP-INECO Foundation 
Core on Neuroscience (NUFIN), Universidad Diego Portales, Santiago, Chile, 
National Scientific and Technical Research Council (CONICET), Buenos Aires, 
Argentina, Parc Sanitari Joan de Deu-SSM, CIBERSAM, Universitat de Barcelona, 
Sant Boi, Barcelona, Spain, Escuela de Psicología, Facultad de Ciencias 
Sociales, Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile, Santiago, Chile, Laboratorio 
de Neurociencia Cognitiva, Departamento de Psiquiatría, Facultad de Medicina, y 
Centro Interdisciplinario de Neurociencia, Pontificia Universidad Católica de 
Chile, Santiago, Chile, Programa de Doctorado en Psicología, Departamento de 
Psicología, Facultad de Ciencias Sociales, Universidad de Chile, Santiago, 
Chile, Departamento de Física, FCEN, UBA and IFIBA, Conicet, Pabellón 1, Ciudad 
Universitaria, 1428 Buenos Aires, Argentina, Universidad Torcuato Di Tella, 
Alte. Juan Saenz Valiente 1010, Buenos Aires C1428BIJ, Argentina, and MRC 
Cognition and Brain Sciences Unit, Cambridge, UK.

It is commonly assumed that early emotional signals provide relevant information 
for social cognition tasks. The goal of this study was to test the association 
between (a) cortical markers of face emotional processing and (b) 
social-cognitive measures, and also to build a model which can predict this 
association (a and b) in healthy volunteers as well as in different groups of 
psychiatric patients. Thus, we investigated the early cortical processing of 
emotional stimuli (N170, using a face and word valence task) and their 
relationship with the social-cognitive profiles (SCPs, indexed by measures of 
theory of mind, fluid intelligence, speed processing and executive functions). 
Group comparisons and individual differences were assessed among schizophrenia 
(SCZ) patients and their relatives, individuals with attention deficit 
hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), individuals with euthymic bipolar disorder (BD) 
and healthy participants (educational level, handedness, age and gender 
matched). Our results provide evidence of emotional N170 impairments in the 
affected groups (SCZ and relatives, ADHD and BD) as well as subtle group 
differences. Importantly, cortical processing of emotional stimuli predicted the 
SCP, as evidenced by a structural equation model analysis. This is the first 
study to report an association model of brain markers of emotional processing 
and SCP.

© The Author (2013). Published by Oxford University Press. For Permissions, 
please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/scan/nst067
PMCID: PMC4090956
PMID: 23685775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


677. Am J Med Genet A. 2013 Jul;161A(7):1686-9. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.a.35937. Epub 2013 
May 17.

6p25 microdeletion: white matter abnormalities in an adult patient.

Vernon HJ(1), Bytyci Telegrafi A, Batista D, Owegi M, Leigh R.

Author information:
(1)McKusick-Nathans Institute of Genetic Medicine, Johns Hopkins University, 
Baltimore, MD 21205, USA. hvernon1@jhmi.edu

We report on a 41-year-old woman of normal intelligence with a complicated past 
medical history including unilateral profound hearing loss, unilateral 
Axenfeld-Rieger anomaly, and leukoencephalopathy. She was referred to an adult 
neurology clinic because of a previous diagnosis of multiple sclerosis, which 
was non-responsive to multiple medications. Due to her complicated past medical 
history, the medical genetics service was consulted. She was found to have a 
chromosome 6p25.3-6p25.2 deletion on SNP array. This report highlights 
chromosome 6p subtelomeric deletions as a possible underlying cause for 
periventricular white matter abnormalities in an adult. It emphasizes the 
importance of genetic testing in an adult with leukoencephalopathy and 
congenital anomalies.

Copyright © 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.a.35937
PMID: 23686687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


678. Dev Psychol. 2014 Jan;50(1):304-15. doi: 10.1037/a0032982. Epub 2013 May 20.

Working memory training and transfer in older adults: effects of age, baseline 
performance, and training gains.

Zinke K(1), Zeintl M(2), Rose NS(3), Putzmann J(4), Pydde A(4), Kliegel M(5).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Medical Psychology and Behavioural Neurobiology.
(2)Department of Psychology, Technische Universität Dresden.
(3)Rotman Research Institute, Baycrest Centre for Geriatric Care.
(4)Technische Universität Dresden.
(5)Department of Psychology, University of Geneva.

Recent studies suggest that working memory training may benefit older adults; 
however, findings regarding training and transfer effects are mixed. The current 
study aimed to investigate the effects of a process-based training intervention 
in a diverse sample of older adults and explored possible moderators of training 
and transfer effects. For that purpose, 80 older adults (65-95 years) were 
assigned either to a training group that worked on visuospatial, verbal, and 
executive working memory tasks for 9 sessions over 3 weeks or to a control 
group. Performance on trained and transfer tasks was assessed in all 
participants before and after the training period, as well as at a 9-month 
follow-up. Analyses revealed significant training effects in all 3 training 
tasks in trained participants relative to controls, as well as near transfer to 
a verbal working memory task and far transfer to a fluid intelligence task. 
Encouragingly, all training effects and the transfer effect to verbal working 
memory were stable at the 9-month follow-up session. Further analyses revealed 
that training gains were predicted by baseline performance in training tasks and 
(to a lesser degree) by age. Gains in transfer tasks were predicted by age and 
by the amount of improvement in the trained tasks. These findings suggest that 
cognitive plasticity is preserved over a large range of old age and that even a 
rather short training regime can lead to (partly specific) training and transfer 
effects. However, baseline performance, age, and training gains moderate the 
amount of plasticity.

PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/a0032982
PMID: 23688173 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


679. Stud Hist Philos Biol Biomed Sci. 2013 Sep;44(3):272-7. doi: 
10.1016/j.shpsc.2013.04.008. Epub 2013 May 18.

What are we to make of the concept of race? Thoughts of a philosopher-scientist.

Pigliucci M(1).

Author information:
(1)Philosophy Program, The Graduate Center-City University of New York, USA. 
massimo@platofootnote.org

Discussions about the biological bases (or lack thereof) of the concept of race 
in the human species seem to be never ending. One of the latest rounds is 
represented by a paper by Neven Sesardic, which attempts to build a strong 
scientific case for the existence of human races, based on genetic, morphometric 
and behavioral characteristics, as well as on a thorough critique of opposing 
positions. In this paper I show that Sesardic's critique falls far short of the 
goal, and that his positive case is exceedingly thin. I do this through a 
combination of analysis of the actual scientific findings invoked by Sesardic 
and of some philosophical unpacking of his conceptual analysis, drawing on a 
dual professional background as an evolutionary biologist and a philosopher of 
science.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.shpsc.2013.04.008
PMID: 23688802 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


680. Psychiatr Hung. 2013;28(1):13-29.

[Problems of aggressive behaviour and its measurement in various age levels. 
Introduction of two questionnaires].

[Article in Hungarian]

Csorba J(1), Radványi K, Barthel B, Dinya E.

Author information:
(1)Eotvos Lorand Tudomanyegyetem, Barczi Gusztav Gyogypedagogiai Kar, 
Gyogypedagogiai-Kortani tanszek, Budapest, Hungary. janos.csorba@barczi.elte.hu

Authors give a detailed overview on aspects of aggressive behaviour in childhood 
and adolescence especially on the basis of the literature of the last two 
decades, then. the measurement opportunities of aggression is discussed. The 
Children's Aggression Scale- parent version (Halperin et al 2002) rated by 
parents is presented and Hungarian validity data are published. In the second 
part of the publication, authors focus on the viewpoints of differences between 
aggressiveness of IQ deficit people and those of having normal intelligence, 
preliminary experiences are reported about the behavioural dimensions of 
intellectually disabled (ID) patients rated by the Behaviour Problem Inventory 
(BPI, Rojahn et al, 2001) suitable for measuring frequency and severity of 
behavioural qualities of both ID adolescents and adults.

PMID: 23689433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


681. Br J Educ Psychol. 2013 Jun;83(Pt 2):305-28. doi: 
10.1111/j.2044-8279.2011.02063.x. Epub 2012 Jan 5.

Vocational interests of intellectually gifted and highly achieving young adults.

Vock M(1), Köller O, Nagy G.

Author information:
(1)University of Potsdam, Germany. miriam.vock@uni-potsdam.de

BACKGROUND: Vocational interests play a central role in the vocational 
decision-making process and are decisive for the later job satisfaction and 
vocational success. Based on Ackerman's (1996) notion of trait complexes, 
specific interest profiles of gifted high-school graduates can be expected.
AIMS: Vocational interests of gifted and highly achieving adolescents were 
compared to those of their less intelligent/achieving peers according to 
Holland's (1997) RIASEC model. Further, the impact of intelligence and 
achievement on interests were analysed while statistically controlling for 
potentially influencing variables. Changes in interests over time were 
investigated.
SAMPLE: N= 4,694 German students (age: M= 19.5, SD= .80; 54.6% females) 
participated in the study (TOSCA; Köller, Watermann, Trautwein, & Lüdtke, 2004).
METHOD: Interests were assessed in participants' final year at school and again 
2 years later (N= 2,318).
RESULTS: Gifted participants reported stronger investigative and realistic 
interests, but lower social interests than less intelligent participants. Highly 
achieving participants reported higher investigative and (in wave 2) higher 
artistic interests. Considerable gender differences were found: gifted girls had 
a flat interest profile, while gifted boys had pronounced realistic and 
investigative and low social interests. Multilevel multiple regression analyses 
predicting interests by intelligence and school achievement revealed stable 
interest profiles. Beyond a strong gender effect, intelligence and school 
achievement each contributed substantially to the prediction of vocational 
interests.
CONCLUSIONS: At the time around graduation from high school, gifted young adults 
show stable interest profiles, which strongly differ between gender and 
intelligence groups. These differences are relevant for programmes for the 
gifted and for vocational counselling.

©2012 The British Psychological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/j.2044-8279.2011.02063.x
PMID: 23692537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


682. J Dev Behav Pediatr. 2013 Jun;34(5):344-52. doi: 10.1097/DBP.0b013e318287ca68.

Relations among upper-limb movement organization and cognitive function at 
school age in children born preterm.

Domellöf E(1), Johansson AM, Farooqi A, Domellöf M, Rönnqvist L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Umeå University, Umeå, Sweden. 
erik.domellof@psy.umu.se

OBJECTIVE: To explore relations between aspects of upper-body spatiotemporal 
movement organization and intelligence in children born preterm at school age.
METHODS: Three-dimensional (3D) kinematic recordings of arm and head movements 
during a unimanual precision task were related to performance on the Wechsler 
Intelligence Scale for Children, 4th edition, in a sample of 32 children born 
preterm (gestational age, mean: 31.5 weeks [range: 22-35 weeks]; birth weight, 
mean: 1699 g [range: 404-2962 g]) at 6 years to 8 years with no diagnosed 
cognitive, sensory, or motor impairments compared with 40 age-matched control 
children born fullterm.
RESULTS: In the children born preterm, upper-limb movement duration and 
segmentation of movement trajectories were significantly associated with 
full-scale intelligence quotient independent of gestational age (GA) and sex. 
These effects pertained to the preferred side, characterized by more effective 
movement organization being linked with increased intelligence scores. The same 
relations were not seen in the controls. Within the children born preterm, a 
significant effect of GA was also found for some aspects of upper-limb movement 
organization. Full-scale intelligence quotient was within normal limits for both 
groups but significantly lower in the preterm (mean: 94.5 [range: 72-120]) 
compared with the fullterm (mean: 101.7 [range: 76-119]) born children.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings demonstrate that, independent of GA, the 
spatiotemporal organization of upper-limb movements is partly associated with 
cognitive performance in children born preterm.

DOI: 10.1097/DBP.0b013e318287ca68
PMID: 23695270 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


683. Am J Speech Lang Pathol. 2013 May;22(2):S438-48. doi: 
10.1044/1058-0360(2013/12-0076).

Characterizing discourse deficits following penetrating head injury: a 
preliminary model.

Coelho C(1), Lê K, Mozeiko J, Hamilton M, Tyler E, Krueger F, Grafman J.

Author information:
(1)University of Connecticut, Storrs, CT, USA. coelho@uconn.edu

PURPOSE: Discourse analyses have demonstrated utility for delineating subtle 
communication deficits following closed head injuries (CHIs). The present 
investigation examined the discourse performance of a large group of individuals 
with penetrating head injury (PHI). Performance was also compared across 6 
subgroups of PHI based on lesion locale. A preliminary model of discourse 
production following PHI was proposed and tested.
METHOD: Story narratives were elicited from 2 groups of participants, 167 with 
PHI and 46 non brain-injured (NBI). Micro- and macrostructural components of 
each story were analyzed. Measures of memory, executive functions, and 
intelligence were also administered. All measures were compared across groups 
and PHI subgroups. The proposed model of discourse production was tested with a 
structural equation modeling procedure.
RESULTS: No differences for the discourse measures were noted across the six PHI 
subgroups. Three measures distinguished the PHI and NBI groups: narrative 
length, story grammar, and completeness. The proposed model of discourse 
production had an adequate-to-good fit with the cognitive and discourse data.
CONCLUSION: In spite of differing mechanisms of injury, the PHI group's 
discourse performance was consistent with what has been reported for individuals 
with CHI. The model tested represents a preliminary step toward understanding 
discourse production following traumatic brain injury.

DOI: 10.1044/1058-0360(2013/12-0076)
PMCID: PMC7684633
PMID: 23695915 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


684. Autism Res. 2013 Oct;6(5):393-410. doi: 10.1002/aur.1302. Epub 2013 May 20.

Social attention in a virtual public speaking task in higher functioning 
children with autism.

Jarrold W(1), Mundy P, Gwaltney M, Bailenson J, Hatt N, McIntyre N, Kim K, 
Solomon M, Novotny S, Swain L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, M.I.N.D. Institute, UC Davis, Sacramento, 
California.

Impairments in social attention play a major role in autism, but little is known 
about their role in development after preschool. In this study, a public 
speaking task was used to study social attention, its moderators, and its 
association with classroom learning in elementary and secondary students with 
higher functioning autism spectrum disorder (HFASD). Thirty-seven students with 
HFASD and 54 age- and intelligence quotient (IQ)-matched peers without symptoms 
of ASD were assessed in a virtual classroom public speaking paradigm. This 
paradigm assessed the ability to attend to nine avatar peers seated at a table, 
while simultaneously answering self-referenced questions. Students with HFASD 
looked less frequently to avatar peers in the classroom while talking. However, 
social attention was moderated in the HFASD sample such that students with lower 
IQ, and/or more symptoms of social anxiety, and/or more attention 
deficit/hyperactivity disorder inattentive symptoms, displayed more atypical 
social attention. Group differences were more pronounced when the classroom 
contained social avatars versus nonsocial targets. Moreover, measures of social 
attention rather than nonsocial attention were significantly associated with 
parent report and objective measures of learning in the classroom. The data in 
this study support the hypothesis of the Social Attention Model of ASD that 
social attention disturbance remains part of the school-aged phenotype of autism 
that is related to syndrome-specific problems in social learning. More research 
of this kind would likely contribute to advances in the understanding of the 
development of the spectrum of autism and educational intervention approaches 
for affected school-aged children.

© 2013 International Society for Autism Research, Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/aur.1302
PMCID: PMC3778085
PMID: 23696132 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


685. Tijdschr Psychiatr. 2013;55(5):369-74.

[Adaptive skills, cognitive functioning and behavioural problems in adolescents 
with 22q11.2 deletion syndrome].

[Article in Dutch]

Dewulf D(1), Noens I, Swillen A.

Author information:
(1)KU Leuven.

BACKGROUND: The 22q11.2 deletion syndrome (22q11.2DS) has a highly variable 
phenotype with a multitude of somatic and psychiatric features. Little is known 
about the adaptive skills of adolescents with 22q11.2DS.
AIM: To investigate adaptive functioning, intelligence and behavioural problems 
and their interrelationship in adolescents with 22q11.2DS.
METHOD: We interviewed the parents of 37 adolescents with 22q11.2DS using the 
Vineland Adaptive Behavior Scales. We assessed the intelligence of the 
adolescents by means of the Wechsler Intelligence Scales. Parents, adolescents 
and teachers were required to complete the Achenbach behavioural questionnaire.
RESULTS: We found that adolescents with 22q11.2DS had impaired adaptive skills; 
these skills were significantly more impaired than the adolescents’ overall 
intelligence, i.e. their I.Q. Socialisation was a relatively well-developed 
domain compared to daily living skills. All respondents reported that the number 
of internalising problems exceeded the number of externalising problems. There 
was no correlation between adaptive functioning and behavioural problems, age or 
gender.
CONCLUSION: The evaluation of adaptive skills in these adolescents is a first 
step on the road to the development of measures aimed at improving their 
functioning in society.

PMID: 23696339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


686. Zhonghua Wei Chang Wai Ke Za Zhi. 2013 May;16(5):467-70.

[Surgical management of pyloric stenosis induced by gastrointestinal chemical 
burn in children].

[Article in Chinese]

Zeng JX(1), Zhu DL, Xia HM, Liang QF.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, Guangzhou Women and Children's Medical Center, 
Guangzhou 510120, China. zengjixiao@hotmail.com.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the efficacy of surgical management for pyloric 
stenosis induced by gastrointestinal chemical burn in children.
METHODS: Clinical data of 11 children with pyloric stenosis induced by 
gastrointestinal chemical burn were analyzed retrospectively. After the failure 
of medicine, intervention of low balloon expansion and stent placement, they 
underwent pylorectomy and gastroduodenostomy. The body weight, height, serum 
albumin, hemoglobin, transferrin were compared between 1 day before and 3 months 
after operation.
RESULTS: There were 10 males and 1 female with a mean age of 4.5 years old. The 
main cause of serious pyloric stenosis was the wrong intake of hydrochloric 
acid. Lesions involved the esophagus and stomach in the early stage, and 4 weeks 
later, the lesion mainly involved the pylorus, which resulted in scarring 
pyloric stenosis and complete pyloric obstruction. Pylorectomy and 
gastroduodenostomy was successfully performed. The mean operative time was 
(134±26) min. The estimated blood loss was (5±2) ml. The postoperative length of 
stay was (10±3) d. There were no surgical complications. During the follow-up of 
3 months, all the patients resumed regular diet. The height, body weight, and 
intelligence appeared to be normal. They showed significant improvement in 
weight, serum albumin, globulin, hemoglobin, transferrin at 3 months after the 
surgery(P<0.05). Six months after surgery, the anastomosis was shown to be 
nornal in barium follow through exam with no signs of stricture of ulcer.
CONCLUSION: Pylorectomy and gastroduodenostomy is an effective management for 
pyloric stenosis induced by gastrointestinal chemical burn in children, whose 
short-term efficacy is good.

PMID: 23696406 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


687. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 2013 May 24;62(20):401-4.

Value of pharmacy-based influenza surveillance - Ontario, Canada, 2009.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).

As part of ongoing efforts by the Public Health Agency of Canada (PHAC) to 
enhance disease surveillance, a retrospective epidemiologic study was undertaken 
to investigate the usefulness for influenza surveillance of data on changes in 
the volume of prescriptions for antiviral medications. The weekly numbers of 
dispensed prescriptions for the antiviral medications oseltamivir and zanamivir, 
as a proportion of all dispensed prescriptions, were compared with the numbers 
of confirmed laboratory reports of influenza A(H1N1) at the local health 
authority level in Ontario, Canada, during the second wave of the outbreak of 
pandemic influenza A(H1N1) in 2009. Qualitative and quantitative analyses 
demonstrated that antiviral prescription dispensing dates were a reasonable 
proxy for influenza A(H1N1) onset dates at the local health authority level. 
This report describes the results of those analyses, which indicated that 1) 
antiviral prescription proportions increased in advance of laboratory reports of 
influenza and 2) antiviral dispensing data can be available in near real-time. 
These findings suggest that pharmacy prescription data can provide timely 
intelligence to help characterize local influenza activity.

PMCID: PMC4604937
PMID: 23698605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


688. JAMA Dermatol. 2013 Jul;149(7):789-94. doi: 10.1001/jamadermatol.2013.3049.

Autoimmune, atopic, and mental health comorbid conditions associated with 
alopecia areata in the United States.

Huang KP(1), Mullangi S, Guo Y, Qureshi AA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Erratum in
    JAMA Dermatol. 2014 Jun;150(6):674.

Comment in
    JAMA Dermatol. 2013 Jul;149(7):794.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the prevalence of comorbid conditions among patients with 
alopecia areata (AA) seen at tertiary care hospitals in Boston, Massachusetts, 
during an 11-year period.
DESIGN: Retrospective cross-sectional study.
SETTING: Tertiary care hospitals in Boston, including Brigham and Women's 
Hospital and Massachusetts General Hospital.
PARTICIPANTS: We identified 3568 individuals with AA seen in the Partners health 
care system in Boston between January 1, 2000, and January 1, 2011. We performed 
comprehensive searches of the Research Patient Data Repository using 
International Classification of Diseases, Ninth Revision code 704.01. We 
randomly selected 350 patients and manually reviewed their medical records to 
train and validate a novel artificial intelligence program. This program then 
used natural language processing to review free-text medical records and confirm 
a diagnosis of AA. To confirm the algorithm, we manually reviewed a subset of 
records and found 93.9% validity.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: The prevalence of comorbid conditions was assessed.
RESULTS: Common comorbid conditions included autoimmune diagnoses (thyroid 
disease in 14.6%, diabetes mellitus in 11.1%, inflammatory bowel disease in 
(2.0%) [corrected], systemic lupus erythematosus in 4.3%, rheumatoid arthritis 
in 3.9%, and psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis in (6.3%) [corrected], atopy 
(allergic rhinitis, asthma, and/or eczema in 38.2% and contact dermatitis and 
other eczema in 35.9%), and mental health problems (depression or anxiety in 
25.5%). We also found high prevalences of hyperlipidemia (24.5%), hypertension 
(21.9%), and gastroesophageal reflux disease (17.3%). This profile was different 
from that seen in a comparison psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis group.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: We found a high prevalence of comorbid conditions 
among individuals with AA presenting to academic medical centers in Boston. 
Physicians caring for patients with AA should consider screening for comorbid 
conditions.

DOI: 10.1001/jamadermatol.2013.3049
PMID: 23700152 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


689. Neuropsychiatr Dis Treat. 2013;9:667-73. doi: 10.2147/NDT.S45370. Epub 2013 May 
14.

Epilepsy and homicide.

Pandya NS(1), Vrbancic M, Ladino LD, Téllez-Zenteno JF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Saskatchewan, Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, 
Canada.

PURPOSE: We report the rare case of a patient with intractable epilepsy and 
escalating aggression, resulting in murder, who had complete resolution of her 
seizures and explosive behavior following a right temporal lobectomy.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We searched the available literature from 1880 to 2013 for 
cases of epilepsy being used as a court defense for murder and collected 
information regarding the final sentencing outcomes. We selected 15 papers with 
a total of 50 homicides.
RESULTS: We describe the case of a 47-year-old woman with drug-resistant right 
temporal epilepsy who developed increasing emotional lability, outbursts of 
anger and escalating violent behavior culminating in a violent murder. The 
patient was imprisoned while awaiting trial. In the interim, she underwent a 
successful temporal lobectomy with full resolution of seizures, interictal rage 
and aggressive behaviors. After the surgery, her charges were downgraded and she 
was transferred to a psychiatric facility.
CONCLUSION: The aggressive behavior associated with epilepsy has been described 
in the literature for over a century. A link between epilepsy and aggression has 
been disproportionally emphasized. These patients share some common 
characteristics: they are usually young men with a long history of epilepsy and 
lower than average intelligence. The violent act is postictal, sudden-onset, 
more likely to occur after a cluster of seizures and is usually related with 
alcohol abuse.

DOI: 10.2147/NDT.S45370
PMCID: PMC3660131
PMID: 23700367


690. Curr Comput Aided Drug Des. 2013 Jun;9(2):206-25. doi: 
10.2174/1573409911309020006.

Evolutionary computation and QSAR research.

Aguiar-Pulido V(1), Gestal M, Cruz-Monteagudo M, Rabuñal JR, Dorado J, Munteanu 
CR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Information and Communication Technologies, Computer Science 
Faculty, University of A Coruña, Campus de Elvina S/N, 15071 A Coruña, Spain. 
vaguiar@udc.es

The successful high throughput screening of molecule libraries for a specific 
biological property is one of the main improvements in drug discovery. The 
virtual molecular filtering and screening relies greatly on quantitative 
structure-activity relationship (QSAR) analysis, a mathematical model that 
correlates the activity of a molecule with molecular descriptors. QSAR models 
have the potential to reduce the costly failure of drug candidates in advanced 
(clinical) stages by filtering combinatorial libraries, eliminating candidates 
with a predicted toxic effect and poor pharmacokinetic profiles, and reducing 
the number of experiments. To obtain a predictive and reliable QSAR model, 
scientists use methods from various fields such as molecular modeling, pattern 
recognition, machine learning or artificial intelligence. QSAR modeling relies 
on three main steps: molecular structure codification into molecular 
descriptors, selection of relevant variables in the context of the analyzed 
activity, and search of the optimal mathematical model that correlates the 
molecular descriptors with a specific activity. Since a variety of techniques 
from statistics and artificial intelligence can aid variable selection and model 
building steps, this review focuses on the evolutionary computation methods 
supporting these tasks. Thus, this review explains the basic of the genetic 
algorithms and genetic programming as evolutionary computation approaches, the 
selection methods for high-dimensional data in QSAR, the methods to build QSAR 
models, the current evolutionary feature selection methods and applications in 
QSAR and the future trend on the joint or multi-task feature selection methods.

DOI: 10.2174/1573409911309020006
PMID: 23700999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


691. J Biosoc Sci. 2014 Mar;46(2):199-213. doi: 10.1017/S0021932013000266. Epub 2013 
May 23.

Cognitive abilities of Emirati and German engineering university students.

Rindermann H(1), Baumeister AE(1), Gröper A(2).

Author information:
(1)* Department of Psychology, Chemnitz University of Technology, Germany.
(2)† Friedrich Schiller University Jena, Germany.

According to human capital theory, individual competences and personality 
attributes are relevant for individual productivity and income. Within human 
capital, intelligence is crucial. To study engineering and work successfully as 
an engineer, high cognitive abilities are necessary, especially for work in 
research and development. In a study of 30 German and 30 Emirati engineering 
students (mean age: 22 years), both groups were tested with mathematical and 
figural intelligence scales (CogAT). German engineering students achieved a mean 
IQ of 116, and Emirati students 104 (in converted UK norms). In both groups male 
students achieved better results than females (2 to 4 IQ point difference). The 
results are compared with those from PISA and TIMSS. The possible causes of 
these results, their consequences and strategies for improvement are discussed.

DOI: 10.1017/S0021932013000266
PMID: 23702355 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


692. J Korean Acad Nurs. 2013 Apr;43(2):203-14. doi: 10.4040/jkan.2013.43.2.203.

[Development and application of a web-based expert system using artificial 
intelligence for management of mental health by Korean emigrants].

[Article in Korean]

Bae J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nursing, Inje University, Institute for Health Science 
Research, International Safe Community Research Center of Busan Metropolitan, 
Busan, Korea. jibai@inje.ac.kr

PURPOSE: The purpose of this project was to develop an international web-based 
expert system using principals of artificial intelligence and user-centered 
design for management of mental health by Korean emigrants. Using this system, 
anyone can access the system via computer access to the web.
METHODS: Our design process utilized principles of user-centered design with 4 
phases: needs assessment, analysis, design/development/testing, and application 
release. A survey was done with 3,235 Korean emigrants. Focus group interviews 
were also conducted. Survey and analysis results guided the design of the 
web-based expert system.
RESULTS: With this system, anyone can check their mental health status by 
themselves using a personal computer. The system analyzes facts based on answers 
to automated questions, and suggests solutions accordingly. A history tracking 
mechanism enables monitoring and future analysis. In addition, this system will 
include intervention programs to promote mental health status.
CONCLUSION: This system is interactive and accessible to anyone in the world. It 
is expected that this management system will contribute to Korean emigrants' 
mental health promotion and allow researchers and professionals to share 
information on mental health.

DOI: 10.4040/jkan.2013.43.2.203
PMID: 23703598 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


693. Shinrigaku Kenkyu. 2013 Apr;84(1):20-7. doi: 10.4992/jjpsy.84.20.

[Explicit and implicit attitudes toward standard-Japanese and Osaka-dialect 
language use].

[Article in Japanese]

Watanabe T(1), Karasawa K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Psychology, Graduate School of Humanities and Sociology, 
University of Tokyo, Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-0033, Japan. 
wata@l.u-tokyo.ac.jp

This article examines the effects of language use on explicit and implicit 
attitudes. We employed the matched-guise technique to measure participants' 
impressions of standard-Japanese and Osaka-dialect speakers. Implicit attitudes 
were assessed by the Implicit Association Test (IAT). The Osaka-dialect speaker 
was evaluated as warmer than the standard-Japanese speaker, suggesting that 
explicit attitudes toward the Osaka dialect have changed positively. On the 
other hand, the results for the impression of intelligence were consistent with 
the previous literature that the standard-Japanese speaker was seen as more 
intelligent than the Osaka-dialect speaker. Compared with explicit attitudes, 
the analyses of implicit attitudes revealed that participants showed a 
consistent implicit bias favoring standard-Japanese language use. The changing 
processes and relationships of explicit and implicit attitudes were discussed.

DOI: 10.4992/jjpsy.84.20
PMID: 23705230 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


694. Child Neuropsychol. 2014;20(3):255-80. doi: 10.1080/09297049.2013.796920. Epub 
2013 May 24.

An analysis of the criteria used to diagnose children with Nonverbal Learning 
Disability (NLD).

Mammarella IC(1), Cornoldi C.

Author information:
(1)a Department of Developmental and Social Psychology , University of Padova , 
Padova , Italy.

Based on a review of the literature, the diagnostic criteria used for children 
with nonverbal learning disabilities (NLD) were identified as follows: (a) low 
visuospatial intelligence; (b) discrepancy between verbal and visuospatial 
intelligence; (c) visuoconstructive and fine-motor coordination skills; (d) 
visuospatial memory tasks; (e) reading better than mathematical achievement; and 
(f) socioemotional skills. An analysis of the effect size was used to 
investigate the strength of criteria for diagnosing NLD considering 35 empirical 
studies published from January 1980 to February 2011. Overall, our results 
showed that the most important criteria for distinguishing children with NLD 
from controls were as follows: a low visuospatial intelligence with a relatively 
good verbal intelligence, visuoconstructive and fine-motor coordination 
impairments, good reading decoding together with low math performance. Deficits 
in visuospatial memory and social skills were also present. A preliminary set of 
criteria for diagnosing NLD was developed on these grounds. It was concluded, 
however, that-although some consensus is emerging-further research is needed to 
definitively establish shared diagnostic criteria for children with NLD.

DOI: 10.1080/09297049.2013.796920
PMID: 23705673 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


695. Lancet. 2013 Jul 27;382(9889):331-7. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(13)60436-5. Epub 
2013 May 22.

Effect of inadequate iodine status in UK pregnant women on cognitive outcomes in 
their children: results from the Avon Longitudinal Study of Parents and Children 
(ALSPAC).

Bath SC(1), Steer CD, Golding J, Emmett P, Rayman MP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutritional Sciences, Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, 
University of Surrey, Guildford, UK.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2013 Jul 27;382(9889):292-3.
    Nat Rev Endocrinol. 2013 Sep;9(9):505-6.
    Evid Based Nurs. 2014 Jul;17(3):86.
    Arch Dis Child Educ Pract Ed. 2014 Dec;99(6):239.
    Natl Med J India. 2014 May-Jun;27(3):144-5.

BACKGROUND: As a component of thyroid hormones, iodine is essential for fetal 
brain development. Although the UK has long been considered iodine replete, 
increasing evidence suggests that it might now be mildly iodine deficient. We 
assessed whether mild iodine deficiency during early pregnancy was associated 
with an adverse effect on child cognitive development.
METHODS: We analysed mother-child pairs from the Avon Longitudinal Study of 
Parents and Children (ALSPAC) cohort by measuring urinary iodine concentration 
(and creatinine to correct for urine volume) in stored samples from 1040 
first-trimester pregnant women. We selected women on the basis of a singleton 
pregnancy and availability of both a urine sample from the first trimester 
(defined as ≤13 weeks' gestation; median 10 weeks [IQR 9-12]) and a measure of 
intelligence quotient (IQ) in the offspring at age 8 years. Women's results for 
iodine-to-creatinine ratio were dichotomised to less than 150 μg/g or 150 μg/g 
or more on the basis of WHO criteria for iodine deficiency or sufficiency in 
pregnancy. We assessed the association between maternal iodine status and child 
IQ at age 8 years and reading ability at age 9 years. We included 21 
socioeconomic, parental, and child factors as confounders.
FINDINGS: The group was classified as having mild-to-moderate iodine deficiency 
on the basis of a median urinary iodine concentration of 91·1 μg/L (IQR 
53·8-143; iodine-to-creatinine ratio 110 μg/g, IQR 74-170). After adjustment for 
confounders, children of women with an iodine-to-creatinine ratio of less than 
150 μg/g were more likely to have scores in the lowest quartile for verbal IQ 
(odds ratio 1·58, 95% CI 1·09-2·30; p=0·02), reading accuracy (1·69, 1·15-2·49; 
p=0·007), and reading comprehension (1·54, 1·06-2·23; p=0·02) than were those of 
mothers with ratios of 150 μg/g or more. When the less than 150 μg/g group was 
subdivided, scores worsened ongoing from 150 μg/g or more, to 50-150 μg/g, to 
less than 50 μg/g.
INTERPRETATION: Our results show the importance of adequate iodine status during 
early gestation and emphasise the risk that iodine deficiency can pose to the 
developing infant, even in a country classified as only mildly iodine deficient. 
Iodine deficiency in pregnant women in the UK should be treated as an important 
public health issue that needs attention.
FUNDING: None.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(13)60436-5
PMID: 23706508 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


696. J Prof Nurs. 2013 May-Jun;29(3):174-80. doi: 10.1016/j.profnurs.2012.04.023.

Using King's interacting systems theory to link emotional intelligence and 
nursing practice.

Shanta LL(1), Connolly M.

Author information:
(1)College of Nursing, University of North Dakota, Grand Forks, ND 58202, USA. 
linda.shanta@email.und.edu

King's theory is a broad theory designed to provide a framework for nursing 
(I.M. King, 1981), whereas emotional intelligence (EI; J.D. Mayer & P. Salovey, 
2004) is a theory that is specific for addressing potential competency in 
dealing with emotions and emotional information. J.D. Mayer, P. Salovey, D.R. 
Caruso, and G. Sitarenios (2001) defined EI as the "ability to recognize the 
meaning of emotions and their relationships and to use them as a basis for 
reasoning and problem solving" (p. 234). These researchers believed that EI is 
related to cognitive intellect through the ability to use reasoning by way of 
information to find meaning. J.D. Mayer and P. Salovey (2004) argued that the 
skills that comprise EI were likely enhanced through obtaining a liberal 
education infused with values exploration. J.D. Mayer, P. Salovey, D.R. Caruso, 
and G. Sitarenios (2001) contended that there are 4 branches of abilities that 
create EI: (a) the skill of perceiving emotion within oneself and others, (b) 
assimilation of an emotion to facilitate thinking, (c) understanding and 
knowledge of emotion, and (d) conscious regulation of emotion. Each level or 
branch builds upon the previous one, and awareness of what each branch offers 
the individual in enhancing relationships with others is a key component of 
healthy emotional interactions. This article will provide a theoretic foundation 
based upon King's interacting systems theory (IST; 1981) that embraces EI as a 
crucial component in the nurse's ability to provide holistic care for patients, 
peers, and themselves. King's IST underscores the necessity of nurses possessing 
abilities of EI as they care for others but does not fully describe a mechanism 
to understand and incorporate emotions within the complex nurse-patient 
interactions and communications that are part of the nursing process.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.profnurs.2012.04.023
PMID: 23706971 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


697. Curr Biol. 2013 Jun 3;23(11):1013-7. doi: 10.1016/j.cub.2013.04.053. Epub 2013 
May 23.

A strong interactive link between sensory discriminations and intelligence.

Melnick MD(1), Harrison BR, Park S, Bennetto L, Tadin D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences, Center for Visual Science, 
University of Rochester, Rochester, NY 14627, USA.

Early psychologists, including Galton, Cattell, and Spearman, proposed that 
intelligence and simple sensory discriminations are constrained by common neural 
processes, predicting a close link between them. However, strong supporting 
evidence for this hypothesis remains elusive. Although people with higher 
intelligence quotients (IQs) are quicker at processing sensory stimuli, these 
broadly replicated findings explain a relatively modest proportion of variance 
in IQ. Processing speed alone is, arguably, a poor match for the information 
processing demands on the neural system. Our brains operate on overwhelming 
amounts of information, and thus their efficiency is fundamentally constrained 
by an ability to suppress irrelevant information. Here, we show that individual 
variability in a simple visual discrimination task that reflects both processing 
speed and perceptual suppression strongly correlates with IQ. High-IQ 
individuals, although quick at perceiving small moving objects, exhibit 
disproportionately large impairments in perceiving motion as stimulus size 
increases. These findings link intelligence with low-level sensory suppression 
of large moving patterns--background-like stimuli that are ecologically less 
relevant. We conjecture that the ability to suppress irrelevant and rapidly 
process relevant information fundamentally constrains both sensory 
discriminations and intelligence, providing an information-processing basis for 
the observed link.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cub.2013.04.053
PMCID: PMC3702042
PMID: 23707433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


698. Neurol Med Chir (Tokyo). 2013;53(5):281-6. doi: 10.2176/nmc.53.281.

Surgical effects of focus resection for patients with intractable epilepsy.

Maehara T(1), Inaji M, Matsuura M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Tokyo Medical and Dental University, Tokyo, 
Japan. maehara.nsrg@tmd.ac.jp

Postoperative seizure-free outcome, psychiatric condition, intellectual 
function, and employment status were reviewed to demonstrate the usefulness of 
focus resection in 71 patients who underwent resective epilepsy surgery between 
2000 and 2010 for the treatment of medication-resistant epilepsy. The 
psychiatric problems were assumed to be present only if the patient received 
psychotropic drug therapy. Seizure-free outcome was obtained in 53 (75%) 
patients. The patients were followed up for 2.0-12.0 years (mean 7.2 years) 
after surgery. Temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE), late seizure onset, short seizure 
duration, and magnetic resonance imaging lesions were all significantly 
associated with cessation of seizures. Psychotropic drug therapy was performed 
in 3 (4.2%) patients before surgery and in 12 (17.0%) patients at 2 years or 
later after surgery. TLE and preoperative psychotropic drugs were significantly 
associated with postoperative psychiatric problems. Among the 71 patients, 65 
underwent full Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Revised (WAIS-R) examinations 
both before and after surgery. The mean WAIS-R score was 82.5 ± 18.7 points for 
total intelligence quotient (IQ) preoperatively and 89.6 ± 20.3 points for total 
IQ postoperatively. Before surgery, 19 (27%) patients were engaged in full-time 
employment. After surgery, 2 patients lost and 9 patients newly entered 
full-time employment, so a total of 26 (37%) patients were engaged in full-time 
employment after surgery. Resective epilepsy surgery resulted in overall 
improvements in seizure control, intellectual functions, and employment status. 
However, patients with TLE had some risk of postoperative psychiatric disorder.

DOI: 10.2176/nmc.53.281
PMID: 23708217 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


699. Yonsei Med J. 2013 Jul;54(4):825-31. doi: 10.3349/ymj.2013.54.4.825.

Missing data analysis in drug-naïve Alzheimer's disease with behavioral and 
psychological symptoms.

Kwak YT(1), Yang Y, Park SG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Hyoja Geriatric Hospital, 1-30 Jungbu-daero 
874beon-gil, Giheung-gu, Yongin 446-512, Korea. kwakdr@gmail.com

PURPOSE: To clarify the effects of missing values due to behavioral and 
psychological symptoms in dementia (BPSD) in Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients 
on the neuropsychological tests, this study describes the pattern of missing 
values due to BPSD, and its influence on tests.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Drug-naïve probable AD patients (n=127) with BPSD and 
without BPSD (n=32) were assessed with Seoul Neuropsychological Screening 
Battery including measures of memory, intelligence, and executive functioning. 
Moreover, patients were rated on Korean Neuropsychiatry Inventory (K-NPI).
RESULTS: The more severe the K-NPI score, the less neuropsychological tests were 
assessable, leading to many missing values. Patients with BPSD were more 
severely demented than those without BPSD. K-NPI scores were significantly 
correlated with the number of missing values. The effect of BPSD was largest for 
tests measuring frontal functions. The replacement of the missing values due to 
BPSD by the lowest observed score also showed the largest effect on tests of 
frontal function.
CONCLUSION: The global cognitive and behavior scales are related with missing 
values. Among K-NPI sub-domains, delusion, depressing, apathy, and aberrant 
motor behavior are significantly correlated for missing values. Data imputation 
of missing values due to BPSD provides a more differentiated picture of 
cognitive deficits in AD with BPSD.

DOI: 10.3349/ymj.2013.54.4.825
PMCID: PMC3663226
PMID: 23709414 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no financial conflicts of 
interest.


700. Child Neuropsychol. 2014;20(3):343-57. doi: 10.1080/09297049.2013.796918. Epub 
2013 May 28.

Cognitive reserve as a moderator of responsiveness to an online problem-solving 
intervention for adolescents with complicated mild-to-severe traumatic brain 
injury.

Karver CL(1), Wade SL, Cassedy A, Taylor HG, Brown TM, Kirkwood MW, Stancin T.

Author information:
(1)a Department of Psychology , University of Cincinnati , Cincinnati , OH , 
USA.

Children and adolescents with traumatic brain injury (TBI) often experience 
behavior difficulties that may arise from problem-solving deficits and impaired 
self-regulation. However, little is known about the relationship of 
neurocognitive ability to post-TBI behavioral recovery. To address this 
question, we examined whether verbal intelligence, as estimated by Vocabulary 
scores from the Wechsler Abbreviated Scale of Intelligence, predicted 
improvements in behavior and executive functioning following a problem-solving 
intervention for adolescents with TBI. One hundred and thirty-two adolescents 
with complicated mild-to-severe TBI were randomly assigned to a six-month 
Web-based problem-solving intervention (CAPS; n = 65) or to an Internet resource 
comparison (IRC; n = 67) group. Vocabulary moderated the association between 
treatment group and improvements in metacognitive abilities. Examination of the 
mean estimates indicated that for those with lower Vocabulary scores, 
pre-intervention Metacognition Index scores from the Behavior Rating Inventory 
of Executive Function (BRIEF) did not differ between the groups, but 
post-intervention scores were significantly lower (more improved) for those in 
the CAPS group. These findings suggest that low verbal intelligence was 
associated with greater improvements in executive functioning following the CAPS 
intervention and that verbal intelligence may have an important role in response 
to intervention for TBI. Understanding predictors of responsiveness to 
interventions allows clinicians to tailor treatments to individuals, thus 
improving efficacy.

DOI: 10.1080/09297049.2013.796918
PMCID: PMC3796178
PMID: 23710617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


701. Cogn Neuropsychiatry. 2014;19(1):1-16. doi: 10.1080/13546805.2013.776494. Epub 
2013 May 28.

Similarities and differences in borderline and organic personality disorder.

Mathiesen BB(1), Simonsen E, Soegaard U, Kvist K.

Author information:
(1)a Department of Psychology , University of Copenhagen , Copenhagen , Denmark.

INTRODUCTION: Previous research has shown that brain injury patients with 
Organic Personality Disorder (OPD) may display "borderline" traits due to 
prefrontal damage, and their personality structure may be unstable and close to 
a borderline personality organisation. They may have few general 
neuropsychological dysfunctions but specific executive deficits. Similar 
deficits have been found in patients with Borderline Personality Disorder (BPD). 
The objective of this study was to identify differences and similarities between 
the neuropsychological and personality profiles of BPD and OPD patients.
METHODS: Twenty BPD patients and 24 OPD patients were assessed with the 
Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV Axis II Disorders (SCID-II), the 
Karolinska Psychodynamic Profile (KAPP), and a comprehensive neuropsychological 
test battery.
RESULTS: Very few neuropsychological differences were found between the two 
patient groups. However, the verbal fluency, verbal intelligence, verbal memory, 
and immediate auditory memory/attention of the BPD patients were significantly 
poorer than the OPD patients'. The KAPP profiles of the BPD patients showed 
significantly poorer functioning in three areas: frustration tolerance, the body 
as a factor of self-esteem, and overall personality organisation.
CONCLUSIONS: These results support our clinical experience and expectations 
concerning the severity of symptoms of both patient groups. We suggest 
considering in depth assessments of both neuropsychological and 
personality-related problems for each of these patients in order to inform 
treatment.

DOI: 10.1080/13546805.2013.776494
PMID: 23710758 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


702. Child Dev. 2014 Mar-Apr;85(2):397-404. doi: 10.1111/cdev.12126. Epub 2013 May 
24.

Infant attention and early childhood executive function.

Cuevas K(1), Bell MA.

Author information:
(1)University of Connecticut.

Individual differences in infant attention are theorized to reflect the speed of 
information processing and are related to later cognitive abilities (i.e., 
memory, language, and intelligence). This study provides the first systematic 
longitudinal analysis of infant attention and early childhood executive function 
(EF; e.g., working memory, inhibitory control, cognitive flexibility). A group 
of 5-month-olds (n = 201) were classified as short or long lookers. At 24, 36, 
and 48 months of age, children completed age-appropriate EF tasks. Infant short 
lookers (i.e., more efficient information processors) exhibited higher EF 
throughout early childhood as compared to infant long lookers, even after 
controlling for verbal ability (a potential indicator of intelligence). These 
findings are discussed in relation to the emergence of executive attention.

© 2013 The Authors. Child Development © 2013 Society for Research in Child 
Development, Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/cdev.12126
PMCID: PMC3766399
PMID: 23711103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


703. Res Dev Disabil. 2013 Aug;34(8):2407-18. doi: 10.1016/j.ridd.2013.04.008. Epub 
2013 May 25.

Prevalence and risk factors of inpatient aggression by adults with intellectual 
disabilities and severe challenging behaviour: a long-term prospective study in 
two Dutch treatment facilities.

Drieschner KH(1), Marrozos I, Regenboog M.

Author information:
(1)Trajectum, Boylerstraat 4, 8387 XN Boschoord, The Netherlands. 
kdrieschner@trajectum.info

Over five years, various types of aggressive incidents by 421 intellectually 
disabled inpatients were recorded on a daily basis, using an adapted version of 
the Modified Overt Aggression Scale. Stable patient characteristics (e.g., 
gender, intelligence, DSM IV classification at the start of treatment) and 
pre-treatment scores of two treatment outcome measures (e.g., Adult Behavior 
Checklist and Dynamic Risk Outcome Scale) were used to predict aggression during 
the treatment. At an overall average of one incident per patient per week, about 
ten times more aggression occurred on admission compared to resocialisation 
wards, and the 20% most aggressive individuals caused 50% of the verbal and 80% 
of the physical incidents. The best predictor of aggressive behaviour was 
aggression early in treatment, followed by coping skills deficits and 
impulsiveness. The relevance of the results for the treatment of aggressive 
behaviour and methodological issues in the recording of inpatient aggression are 
discussed.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ridd.2013.04.008
PMID: 23711630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


704. Arch Clin Neuropsychol. 2013 Dec;28(8):859-65. doi: 10.1093/arclin/act037. Epub 
2013 May 27.

Naming Test of the Neuropsychological Assessment Battery: reliability and 
validity in a sample of patients with acquired brain injury.

Zgaljardic DJ(1), Oden KE, Dickson S, Plenger PM, Lambert ME, Miller R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuropsychology, Transitional Learning Center, Galveston, TX, 
USA.

The current study assessed the internal consistency, alternate forms 
reliability, and convergent/divergent validity of the Naming Test of the 
Neuropsychological Assessment Battery (NAB) in patients with acquired brain 
injury. Fifty-nine patients were administered the NAB Naming Test (forms 1 and 
2) and the Boston Naming Test (BNT), as well as other tests of 
neuropsychological functioning. Forms 1 and 2 of the NAB Naming Test 
demonstrated adequate internal consistency and alternate forms reliability. The 
NAB Naming Test was significantly associated with scores from the BNT, as well 
as scores from tests that assess visuospatial skills, semantic fluency, and 
verbal memory. The divergent validity of the NAB Naming Test was demonstrated by 
non-significant associations with tests of attention and processing speed. BNT 
scores correlated significantly with the educational level and estimated 
premorbid intelligence but not age, whereas the NAB Naming Test scores only 
correlated significantly with estimated premorbid intelligence. The current 
study provides independent validation supporting the utility of the NAB Naming 
Test for patients with acquired brain injury.

DOI: 10.1093/arclin/act037
PMID: 23714104 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


705. PLoS One. 2013 May 22;8(5):e63614. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0063614. Print 
2013.

Failure of working memory training to enhance cognition or intelligence.

Thompson TW(1), Waskom ML, Garel KL, Cardenas-Iniguez C, Reynolds GO, Winter R, 
Chang P, Pollard K, Lala N, Alvarez GA, Gabrieli JD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences, Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA. toddt@mit.edu

Fluid intelligence is important for successful functioning in the modern world, 
but much evidence suggests that fluid intelligence is largely immutable after 
childhood. Recently, however, researchers have reported gains in fluid 
intelligence after multiple sessions of adaptive working memory training in 
adults. The current study attempted to replicate and expand those results by 
administering a broad assessment of cognitive abilities and personality traits 
to young adults who underwent 20 sessions of an adaptive dual n-back working 
memory training program and comparing their post-training performance on those 
tests to a matched set of young adults who underwent 20 sessions of an adaptive 
attentional tracking program. Pre- and post-training measurements of fluid 
intelligence, standardized intelligence tests, speed of processing, reading 
skills, and other tests of working memory were assessed. Both training groups 
exhibited substantial and specific improvements on the trained tasks that 
persisted for at least 6 months post-training, but no transfer of improvement 
was observed to any of the non-trained measurements when compared to a third 
untrained group serving as a passive control. These findings fail to support the 
idea that adaptive working memory training in healthy young adults enhances 
working memory capacity in non-trained tasks, fluid intelligence, or other 
measures of cognitive abilities.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0063614
PMCID: PMC3661602
PMID: 23717453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


706. PLoS One. 2013 May 22;8(5):e63975. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0063975. Print 
2013.

Does perceived physical attractiveness in adolescence predict better 
socioeconomic position in adulthood? Evidence from 20 years of follow up in a 
population cohort study.

Benzeval M(1), Green MJ, Macintyre S.

Author information:
(1)Social and Public Health Sciences Unit, Medical Research Council, Glasgow, 
United Kingdom. m.benzeval@sphsu.mrc.ac.uk

There is believed to be a 'beauty premium' in key life outcomes: it is thought 
that people perceived to be more physically attractive have better educational 
outcomes, higher-status jobs, higher wages, and are more likely to marry. 
Evidence for these beliefs, however, is generally based on photographs in 
hypothetical experiments or studies of very specific population subgroups (such 
as college students). The extent to which physical attractiveness might have a 
lasting effect on such outcomes in 'real life' situations across the whole 
population is less well known. Using longitudinal data from a general population 
cohort of people in the West of Scotland, this paper investigated the 
association between physical attractiveness at age 15 and key socioeconomic 
outcomes approximately 20 years later. People assessed as more physically 
attractive at age 15 had higher socioeconomic positions at age 36- in terms of 
their employment status, housing tenure and income - and they were more likely 
to be married; even after adjusting for parental socioeconomic background, their 
own intelligence, health and self esteem, education and other adult 
socioeconomic outcomes. For education the association was significant for women 
but not for men. Understanding why attractiveness is strongly associated with 
long-term socioeconomic outcomes, after such extensive confounders have been 
considered, is important.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0063975
PMCID: PMC3661660
PMID: 23717520 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


707. Pers Soc Psychol Bull. 2013 Aug;39(8):1017-29. doi: 10.1177/0146167213488215. 
Epub 2013 May 29.

Ordered delinquency: the "effects" of birth order on delinquency.

Cundiff PR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Criminal Justice, East Carolina University, 245 Rivers 
Building, Greenville, NC 27858, USA. patrickrcundiff@gmail.com

Juvenile delinquency has long been associated with birth order in popular 
culture. While images of the middle child acting out for attention or the 
rebellious youngest child readily spring to mind, little research has attempted 
to explain why. Drawing from Adlerian birth order theory and Sulloway's 
born-to-rebel hypothesis, I examine the relationship between birth order and a 
variety of delinquent outcomes during adolescence. Following some recent 
research on birth order and intelligence, I use new methods that allow for the 
examination of between-individual and within-family differences to better 
address the potential spurious relationship. My findings suggest that contrary 
to popular belief, the relationship between birth order and delinquency is 
spurious. Specifically, I find that birth order effects on delinquency are 
spurious and largely products of the analytic methods used in previous tests of 
the relationship. The implications of this finding are discussed.

DOI: 10.1177/0146167213488215
PMCID: PMC4105693
PMID: 23719623 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


708. Front Psychol. 2013 May 16;4:195. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2013.00195. eCollection 
2013.

Quantitative deficits of preschool children at risk for mathematical learning 
disability.

Chu FW(1), Vanmarle K, Geary DC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychological Sciences, University of Missouri Columbia, MO, 
USA.

The study tested the hypothesis that acuity of the potentially inherent 
approximate number system (ANS) contributes to risk of mathematical learning 
disability (MLD). Sixty-eight (35 boys) preschoolers at risk for school failure 
were assessed on a battery of quantitative tasks, and on intelligence, executive 
control, preliteracy skills, and parental education. Mathematics achievement 
scores at the end of 1 year of preschool indicated that 34 of these children 
were at high risk for MLD. Relative to the 34 typically achieving children, the 
at risk children were less accurate on the ANS task, and a one standard 
deviation deficit on this task resulted in a 2.4-fold increase in the odds of 
MLD status. The at risk children also had a poor understanding of ordinal 
relations, and had slower learning of Arabic numerals, number words, and their 
cardinal values. Poor performance on these tasks resulted in 3.6- to 4.5-fold 
increases in the odds of MLD status. The results provide some support for the 
ANS hypothesis but also suggest these deficits are not the primary source of 
poor mathematics learning.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2013.00195
PMCID: PMC3655274
PMID: 23720643


709. Neuroimage. 2013 Nov 15;82:547-54. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2013.05.087. Epub 
2013 May 28.

Architecture of cognitive flexibility revealed by lesion mapping.

Barbey AK(1), Colom R, Grafman J.

Author information:
(1)Decision Neuroscience Laboratory, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 
Champaign, IL 61820, USA. barbey@illinois.edu

Neuroscience has made remarkable progress in understanding the architecture of 
human intelligence, identifying a distributed network of brain structures that 
support goal-directed, intelligent behavior. However, the neural foundations of 
cognitive flexibility and adaptive aspects of intellectual function remain to be 
well characterized. Here, we report a human lesion study (n=149) that 
investigates the neural bases of key competencies of cognitive flexibility 
(i.e., mental flexibility and the fluent generation of new ideas) and 
systematically examine their contributions to a broad spectrum of cognitive and 
social processes, including psychometric intelligence (Wechsler Adult 
Intelligence Scale), emotional intelligence (Mayer, Salovey, Caruso Emotional 
Intelligence Test), and personality (Neuroticism-Extraversion-Openness 
Personality Inventory). Latent variable modeling was applied to obtain 
error-free indices of each factor, followed by voxel-based lesion-symptom 
mapping to elucidate their neural substrates. Regression analyses revealed that 
latent scores for psychometric intelligence reliably predict latent scores for 
cognitive flexibility (adjusted R(2)=0.94). Lesion mapping results further 
indicated that these convergent processes depend on a shared network of frontal, 
temporal, and parietal regions, including white matter association tracts, which 
bind these areas into an integrated system. A targeted analysis of the unique 
variance explained by cognitive flexibility further revealed selective damage 
within the right superior temporal gyrus, a region known to support insight and 
the recognition of novel semantic relations. The observed findings motivate an 
integrative framework for understanding the neural foundations of adaptive 
behavior, suggesting that core elements of cognitive flexibility emerge from a 
distributed network of brain regions that support specific competencies for 
human intelligence.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2013.05.087
PMCID: PMC3790579
PMID: 23721727 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


710. Psychon Bull Rev. 2013 Dec;20(6):1274-81. doi: 10.3758/s13423-013-0456-6.

Working memory, fluid intelligence, and impulsiveness in heavy media 
multitaskers.

Minear M(1), Brasher F, McCurdy M, Lewis J, Younggren A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Wyoming, Dept. 3415, 1000 E. 
University Ave., Laramie, WY, 82071, USA, mereditheminear@gmail.com.

Ophir, Nass, and Wagner (Proceedings of the National Association of Sciences 
106:15583-15587, 2009) reported that individuals who routinely engage in 
multiple forms of media use are actually worse at multitasking, possibly due to 
difficulties in ignoring irrelevant stimuli, from both external sources and 
internal representations in memory. Using the media multitasking index (MMI) 
developed by Ophir et al., we identified heavy media multitaskers (HMMs) and 
light media multitaskers (LMMs) and tested them on measures of attention, 
working memory, task switching, and fluid intelligence, as well as self-reported 
impulsivity and self-control. We found that people who reported engaging in 
heavy amounts of media multitasking reported being more impulsive and performed 
more poorly on measures of fluid intelligence than did those who did not 
frequently engage in media multitasking. However, we could find no evidence to 
support the contention that HMMs are worse in a multitasking situation such as 
task switching or that they show any deficits in dealing with irrelevant or 
distracting information, as compared with LMMs.

DOI: 10.3758/s13423-013-0456-6
PMID: 23722949 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


711. J Mass Spectrom. 2013 Jun;48(6):677-84. doi: 10.1002/jms.3216.

Efficiency of the dry-wet method for the MALDI-MSI analysis of latent 
fingermarks.

Ferguson LS(1), Creasey S, Wolstenholme R, Clench MR, Francese S.

Author information:
(1)Biomedical Research Centre, Sheffield Hallam University, Howard Street S1 
1WB, Sheffield, UK.

Matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionisation mass spectrometry imaging 
(MALDI-MSI) has proven to be a powerful analytical tool to investigate problems 
in several fields of life science. A novel application is in the field of 
forensics, particularly in the analysis of latent fingermarks. This technology 
enables images of the fingermark ridge detail and additional intelligence to be 
simultaneously obtained. Although several methods are available to deposit the 
MALDI matrix, to make the technology forensically operational, another 
deposition approach was devised and reported, namely the 'dry-wet' method. In 
the present study, the efficiency of the dry-wet method was evaluated and 
compared with the conventional spray coat methodology. Results indicate that the 
dry-wet method is superior for all the donors' typologies in terms of ion signal 
intensity and clarity of the ridge details. To underpin the reasons of this 
efficiency, scanning electron microscopy analyses were carried out in parallel 
to MALDI-MSI experiments using matrices of different particle size. Results have 
confirmed that the particle size plays an important role in the efficiency of 
the method as higher quality images and higher intensity spectra are produced as 
the matrix particle size decreases.

Copyright © 2013 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/jms.3216
PMID: 23722958 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


712. Iran J Pediatr. 2013 Apr;23(2):183-8.

Concurrent validity of persian version of wechsler intelligence scale for 
children - fourth edition and cognitive assessment system in patients with 
learning disorder.

Rostami R(1), Sadeghi V, Zarei J, Haddadi P, Mohazzab-Torabi S, Salamati P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology and Education, University of Tehran, Tehran, Iran.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to compare the Persian version of the 
wechsler intelligence scale for children - fourth edition (WISC-IV) and 
cognitive assessment system (CAS) tests, to determine the correlation between 
their scales and to evaluate the probable concurrent validity of these tests in 
patients with learning disorders.
METHODS: One-hundered-sixty-two children with learning disorder who were 
presented at Atieh Comprehensive Psychiatry Center were selected in a 
consecutive non-randomized order. All of the patients were assessed based on 
WISC-IV and CAS scores questionnaires. Pearson correlation coefficient was used 
to analyze the correlation between the data and to assess the concurrent 
validity of the two tests. Linear regression was used for statistical modeling. 
The type one error was considered 5% in maximum.
FINDINGS: There was a strong correlation between total score of WISC-IV test and 
total score of CAS test in the patients (r=0.75, P<0.001). The correlations 
among the other scales were mostly high and all of them were statistically 
significant (P<0.001). A linear regression model was obtained (α = 0.51, β = 
0.81 and P<0.001).
CONCLUSION: There is an acceptable correlation between the WISC-IV scales and 
CAS test in children with learning disorders. A concurrent validity is 
established between the two tests and their scales.

PMCID: PMC3663310
PMID: 23724180


713. Glob Heart. 2013 Jun;8(2):171-9. doi: 10.1016/j.gheart.2013.05.006.

The Digital Health Scorecard: A New Health Literacy Metric for NCD Prevention 
and Care.

Ratzan SC(1), Weinberger MB(2), Apfel F(3), Kocharian G(4).

Author information:
(1)Johnson & Johnson, New Brunswick, NJ, USA; Mailman School of Public Health, 
Columbia University, New York, NY, USA.
(2)Johnson & Johnson, New Brunswick, NJ, USA. Electronic address: 
MWeinbe1@its.jnj.com.
(3)World Health Communication Associates, Somerset, United Kingdom.
(4)Johnson & Johnson, New Brunswick, NJ, USA; Department of Cell Biology and 
Neuroscience, Rutgers University, New Brunswick, NJ, USA.

According to the World Health Organization, 3 out of 5 deaths worldwide are due 
to common, chronic conditions, such as heart and respiratory diseases, cancer, 
and diabetes. These noncommunicable diseases (NCDs) are linked to multiple 
lifestyle risk factors, including smoking, the harmful use of alcohol, and 
physical inactivity. They are associated with other "intermediate" risk factors, 
such as elevated body mass index (BMI), hypertension, hyperlipidemia, and 
hyperglycemia. Taking action to reduce these 7 risk factors can help people 
protect themselves against leading causes of death. All of these risk factors 
are measurable and modifiable, but globally available, cost-effective, and 
easy-to-use outcome metrics that can drive action on all levels do not yet 
exist. The Digital Health Scorecard is being proposed as a dynamic, globally 
available digital tool to raise public, professional, and policy maker NCD 
health literacy (the motivation and ability to access, understand, communicate, 
and use information to improve health and reduce the incidence of NCD). Its aim 
is to motivate and empower individuals to make the behavioral and choice changes 
needed to improve their health and reduce NCD risk factors by giving 
unprecedented access to global data intelligence, creating awareness, making 
links to professional and community-based support services and policies, and 
providing a simple way to measure and track risk changes. Moreover, it provides 
health care professionals, communities, institutions, workplaces, and nations 
with a simple metric to monitor progress toward agreed local, national, and 
global NCD targets.

Copyright © 2013 World Heart Federation (Geneva). Published by Elsevier B.V. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gheart.2013.05.006
PMID: 25690381


714. J Neurosurg Pediatr. 2013 Aug;12(2):175-80. doi: 10.3171/2013.4.PEDS12420. Epub 
2013 May 31.

Clinical features of familial juvenile cases of moyamoya disease: analysis of 
patients treated in a single institute over a 28-year period.

Mukawa M(1), Nariai T, Matsushima Y, Ohno K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Tokyo Medical and Dental University, Tokyo, 
Japan.

OBJECT: The authors compared the clinical features between familial and sporadic 
cases of moyamoya disease (MMD) by retrospectively analyzing data on patients 
with MMD registered in the database of Tokyo Medical and Dental University over 
a period of 28 years.
METHODS: In total, 383 patients with hospital records at Tokyo Medical and 
Dental University from 1980 to 2007 were registered into the database. The data 
on all of these patients were retrospectively reviewed to clarify the occurrence 
of familial cases. Clinical features of child or adolescent patients (< 20 years 
of age) with MMD were compared between familial and sporadic cases in a subgroup 
of patients who were registered after 1995, initially diagnosed using MR 
angiography, and assessed using an intelligence scale.
RESULTS: Familial occurrence was observed in 59 patients (15.4%) in 40 
pedigrees. The clinical features of juvenile patients were analyzed in 124 
patients, 22 (17.7%) of whom had familial histories. In comparison with the 
sporadic cases, patients with familial histories were significantly younger at 
onset (4.7 vs 6.6 years old), had significantly more cortical infarction (59.1% 
vs 25.5%), and had significantly more stenoocclusive lesions in the posterior 
cerebral artery (45.4% vs 24.5%). The rate of patients with intellectual 
disturbance (intelligence quotient < 75) was significantly larger in the 
familial cases (47.4%) than in the sporadic cases (17.8%).
CONCLUSIONS: This survey of the clinical features of familial MMD suggests that 
patients with familial MMD had a more serious clinical course in childhood than 
the sporadic MMD cases.

DOI: 10.3171/2013.4.PEDS12420
PMID: 23725354 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


715. Psychol Health Med. 2014;19(2):180-9. doi: 10.1080/13548506.2013.802356. Epub 
2013 Jun 2.

Trait emotional intelligence and inflammatory diseases.

Costa S(1), Petrides KV, Tillmann T.

Author information:
(1)a Department of Human and Social Sciences , University of Messina , Messina , 
Italy.

Researchers have become increasingly interested in the psychological aspects of 
inflammatory disorders. Within this line of research, the present study compares 
the trait emotional intelligence (trait EI) profiles of 827 individuals with 
various inflammatory conditions (rheumatoid arthritis [RA], ankylosing 
spondylitis, multiple sclerosis, and RA plus one comorbidity) against 496 
healthy controls. Global trait EI scores did not show significant differences 
between these groups, although some differences were observed when comparisons 
were carried out against alternative control groups. Significant differences 
were found on the trait EI factors of Well-being (where the healthy group scored 
higher than the RA group) and Sociability (where the healthy group scored higher 
than both the RA group and the RA plus one comorbidity group). The discussion 
centers on the multifarious links and interplay between emotions and 
inflammatory conditions.

DOI: 10.1080/13548506.2013.802356
PMID: 23725416 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


716. J Surg Educ. 2013 Jul-Aug;70(4):514-21. doi: 10.1016/j.jsurg.2013.03.010. Epub 
2013 Apr 30.

The assessment of emotional intelligence among candidates interviewing for 
general surgery residency.

Lin DT(1), Kannappan A, Lau JN.

Author information:
(1)Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, California 94305, USA. 
danalin@stanford.edu

BACKGROUND: There is an increasing demand for physicians to possess strong 
personal and social qualities embodied in the concept of emotional intelligence 
(EI). However, the residency selection process emphasizes mainly academic 
accomplishments. In this system, the faculty interview is the primary means of 
evaluating the nontangible, nonacademic attributes of a candidate.
OBJECTIVE: To determine whether the impressions derived from faculty interviews 
correlate with an applicant's actual EI as measured by a validated objective 
instrument.
STUDY DESIGN: Participating applicants interviewing for a surgical residency 
position at Stanford completed an EI inventory Trait Emotional Intelligence 
Questionnaire (TEIQue). Faculty estimated the EI of the applicants they 
interviewed using a corresponding 360° evaluation form. Multivariate linear 
regression was performed to identify demographic and academic factors predictive 
of EI. Applicant TEIQue scores and faculty 360° impressions were correlated 
using Pearson coefficients.
RESULTS: Mean EI of the cohort was higher than that of the average population 
(5.43 vs 4.89, p<0.001). Age was the only demographic variable that 
significantly informed EI (B = 0.07, p = 0.005). Among the academic factors 
considered, United States Medical Licensing Examination Step 1 score was a 
slight negative predictor of EI (B =-0.007, p = 0.04). Applicant global EI 
scores did not correlate with faculty impressions of overall EI (r = 0.27, p = 
0.06). Of the 4 domains that comprise global EI, sociability and emotionality 
demonstrated a moderate correlation between applicant and faculty scores (r = 
0.31, p = 0.03 and r = 0.27, p = 0.05, respectively). None of the fifteen 
individual facets of EI demonstrated any correlation between applicant and 
faculty ratings (r =-0.12 to 0.26, p = 0.06-0.91). No association was found 
between applicant TEIQue and traditional faculty interview evaluations (r = 
0.18, p = 0.19).
CONCLUSIONS: Applicant EI correlated poorly with academic parameters and was not 
accurately assessed by faculty interviews. Methods that better capture this 
dimension should be incorporated into the residency selection process.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jsurg.2013.03.010
PMID: 23725940 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


717. Patient Educ Couns. 2013 Aug;92(2):211-7. doi: 10.1016/j.pec.2013.04.006. Epub 
2013 May 29.

Using design science and artificial intelligence to improve health 
communication: ChronologyMD case example.

Neuhauser L(1), Kreps GL, Morrison K, Athanasoulis M, Kirienko N, Van Brunt D.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, University of California, Berkeley, USA. 
lindan@berkeley.edu

OBJECTIVE: This paper describes how design science theory and methods and use of 
artificial intelligence (AI) components can improve the effectiveness of health 
communication.
METHODS: We identified key weaknesses of traditional health communication and 
features of more successful eHealth/AI communication. We examined 
characteristics of the design science paradigm and the value of its 
user-centered methods to develop eHealth/AI communication. We analyzed a case 
example of the participatory design of AI components in the ChronologyMD project 
intended to improve management of Crohn's disease.
RESULTS: eHealth/AI communication created with user-centered design shows 
improved relevance to users' needs for personalized, timely and interactive 
communication and is associated with better health outcomes than traditional 
approaches. Participatory design was essential to develop ChronologyMD system 
architecture and software applications that benefitted patients.
CONCLUSION: AI components can greatly improve eHealth/AI communication, if 
designed with the intended audiences. Design science theory and its iterative, 
participatory methods linked with traditional health communication theory and 
methods can create effective AI health communication.
PRACTICE IMPLICATIONS: eHealth/AI communication researchers, developers and 
practitioners can benefit from a holistic approach that draws from theory and 
methods in both design sciences and also human and social sciences to create 
successful AI health communication.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pec.2013.04.006
PMID: 23726219 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


718. Patient Educ Couns. 2013 Aug;92(2):149-52. doi: 10.1016/j.pec.2013.05.001. Epub 
2013 May 29.

Adding coping-related strategies to biomedical argumentation in 
computer-generated genetic counseling patient letters.

Green NL(1), Stadler B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Computer Science, University of North Carolina Greensboro, 
Greensboro, USA. nlgreen@uncg.edu

OBJECTIVE: Previously an experimental computer system was developed to 
automatically produce first drafts of genetic counseling patient letters 
containing biomedical evidence-based arguments. However, letters written by 
genetic counselors also employ strategies to help clients cope. The objectives 
of this research were to discover methods for addition of coping-related 
strategies to the drafts and to explore their efficacy.
METHODS: Using an argumentation-based approach, the system design was modified 
to add coping-related strategies used by actual genetic counselors. An 
evaluation of computer-produced drafts was performed comparing those containing 
only biomedical arguments to those with coping strategies added to biomedical 
arguments.
RESULTS: The evaluation mainly found no significant impact of adding coping 
strategies.
CONCLUSION: The main contribution of this work was to show how coping-related 
strategies can be produced by an artificial intelligence approach within an 
argumentation-based theoretical framework. A possible future application would 
be to improve computer-drafted genetic counseling patient letters.
PRACTICE IMPLICATIONS: Computer-assisted drafting of letters has potential to 
aid in the practice of genetic counseling. Further research is needed to 
demonstrate the efficacy of adding coping strategies to computer-produced 
drafts.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pec.2013.05.001
PMID: 23726747 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


719. Neuroimage. 2013 Nov 15;82:284-94. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2013.05.088. Epub 
2013 May 28.

Partial least squares correlation of multivariate cognitive abilities and local 
brain structure in children and adolescents.

Ziegler G(1), Dahnke R, Winkler AD, Gaser C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Jena University Hospital, Jena, Germany. 
Gabriel.Ziegler@uni-jena.de

Intelligent behavior is not a one-dimensional phenomenon. Individual differences 
in human cognitive abilities might be therefore described by a 'cognitive 
manifold' of intercorrelated tests from partially independent domains of general 
intelligence and executive functions. However, the relationship between these 
individual differences and brain morphology is not yet fully understood. Here we 
take a multivariate approach to analyzing covariations across individuals in two 
feature spaces: the low-dimensional space of cognitive ability subtests and the 
high-dimensional space of local gray matter volume obtained from voxel-based 
morphometry. By exploiting a partial least squares correlation framework in a 
large sample of 286 healthy children and adolescents, we identify directions of 
maximum covariance between both spaces in terms of latent variable modeling. We 
obtain an orthogonal set of latent variables representing commonalities in the 
brain-behavior system, which emphasize specific neuronal networks involved in 
cognitive ability differences. We further explore the early lifespan maturation 
of the covariance between cognitive abilities and local gray matter volume. The 
dominant latent variable revealed positive weights across widespread gray matter 
regions (in the brain domain) and the strongest weights for parents' ratings of 
children's executive function (in the cognitive domain). The obtained latent 
variables for brain and cognitive abilities exhibited moderate correlations of 
0.46-0.6. Moreover, the multivariate modeling revealed indications for a 
heterochronic formation of the association as a process of brain maturation 
across different age groups.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2013.05.088
PMID: 23727321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


720. Life Sci. 2013 Oct 17;93(17):611-6. doi: 10.1016/j.lfs.2013.05.017. Epub 2013 
May 31.

Intellectual functioning and multi-dimensional attentional processes in 
long-term survivors of a central nervous system related pediatric malignancy.

Butler RW(1), Fairclough DL, Katz ER, Kazak AE, Noll RB, Thompson RD, Sahler OJ.

Author information:
(1)Austin Hatcher Foundation for Pediatric Cancer, Chattanooga, TN, USA. 
Electronic address: butlerr@hatcherfoundation.org.

AIMS: Central nervous system (CNS) malignancies and/or their treatment in 
pediatric cancer survivors are known to be associated with deficits in 
neuropsychological functions. We report findings from a nation-wide study of 
childhood cancer survivors to investigate intelligence and 
attention/concentration from a multi-dimensional perspective in a diverse sample 
from this population.
MAIN METHODS: Four hundred forty-four pediatric cancer survivors between 6 and 
17 years of age, who had suffered CNS involvement associated with their 
malignancy, were evaluated. All patients completed a measure of general 
intelligence. Attention was measured by a continuous performance test (CPT) and 
by parental report using a standardized psychological inventory.
KEY FINDINGS: Social economic status (SES) was a significant predictor of 
intellectual functioning and scores on independent measures of attention. After 
controlling for SES, cranial radiation therapy (CRT) was strongly predictive of 
impairments in intellectual functioning. Patients who had completed a transplant 
procedure did not have significant impairments in intellectual functioning when 
compared to other participants. CPT performance was most clearly influenced by a 
younger age at diagnosis and the presence of a supratentorial brain tumor. 
Reaction time was lower in patients who had received CRT. Gender did not 
correlate with CPT performance, but caregiver reports of deficits in attentional 
functioning were more prevalent in girls compared to boys.
SIGNIFICANCE: These findings are important given the large, representative 
sample and multi-dimensional assessment of attentional functioning. The presence 
of a very strong SES effect on all dependent variables must be addressed in 
studies of this nature.

Copyright © 2013. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lfs.2013.05.017
PMID: 23727455 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


721. Compr Psychiatry. 2013 Oct;54(7):1016-22. doi: 10.1016/j.comppsych.2013.04.008. 
Epub 2013 May 31.

Validation of a functional remission threshold for the Functional Remission of 
General Schizophrenia (FROGS) scale.

Boyer L(1), Richieri R, Guedj E, Faget-Agius C, Loundou A, Llorca PM, Auquier P, 
Lançon C.

Author information:
(1)Aix-Marseille Univ, EA 3279-Public Health, Chronic Diseases and Quality of 
Life-Research Unit, 13005 Marseille, France. Electronic address: 
laurent.boyer@ap-hm.fr.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to develop a functional remission threshold 
for the Functional Remission Of General Schizophrenia (FROGS) scale, and test 
its validity regarding clinical and quality of life outcomes.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional study.
INCLUSION CRITERIA: Schizophrenia according to DSM-IV-TR criteria.
DATA COLLECTION: Functioning was assessed using the FROGS and the Global 
Assessment of Functioning (GAF) scales; psychotic symptoms using the Positive 
and Negative Syndrome Scale; memory, attention, and executive functions were 
assessed using the California Verbal Learning Test, the D2 attention task, the 
Stroop color-word test, the verbal fluency test, the Trail Making Test A and B 
and the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale; and quality of life using the 
schizophrenia quality of life (S-QoL 18) scale.
ANALYSIS: A logistic regression analysis including the different dimensions of 
the FROGS was used to create a composite score to classify patients into 
remitted and non-remitted according a gold standard (cut-off: GAF>= 61). 
Receiver operating characteristics analyses were then performed to determine the 
area under the curve (AUC).
RESULTS: Of 137 patients enrolled, 26 were functionally remitted and 111 were 
not remitted according to GAF score. The AUC for the combination of the FROGS's 
dimensions to detect functional remission was 0.903 (p<0.001). Sensitivity and 
specificity for the combination of the FROGS dimensions using the Youden index 
were 88.5 [69.8; 97.6] and 81.1 [72.5; 87.9], respectively. Validity of this 
combination was satisfactory. Patients in functional remission had a lower 
severity of the disease, especially for PANSS negative (p<0.001) and general 
psychopathology (p<0.001) symptoms. Only two cognitive functions (i.e. fluency 
and episodic memory) were improved in remitted patients. Higher quality of life 
levels were globally associated with better functioning.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings provide for first accurate FROGS thresholds to 
detect functional remission in schizophrenia.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.comppsych.2013.04.008
PMID: 23731897 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


722. Int Psychogeriatr. 2013 Sep;25(9):1393-407. doi: 10.1017/S1041610213000793. Epub 
2013 Jun 4.

Do dietary patterns influence cognitive function in old age?

Corley J(1), Starr JM, McNeill G, Deary IJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Edinburgh, 7 George Square, Edinburgh 
EH8 9JZ, UK.

BACKGROUND: Evidence from observational studies to date suggests that healthy 
dietary patterns are associated with better cognitive performance in later life. 
We examined the extent to which childhood intelligence quotient (IQ) and 
socioeconomic status account for this association.
METHODS: Analyses were carried out on 882 participants in the Lothian Birth 
Cohort 1936 Study. Four dietary patterns were extracted using principal 
components analysis of a food frequency questionnaire, namely 
"Mediterranean-style," "health aware," "traditional," and "sweet foods." 
Cognitive function was assessed at the age of 70 years, including general (g) 
cognitive ability, processing speed, memory, and verbal ability.
RESULTS: Before adjustment for childhood IQ and socioeconomic status, the 
"Mediterranean-style" dietary pattern was associated with significantly better 
cognitive performance (effect size as partial eta-square (ηp(2)) range = 0.005 
to 0.055), and the "traditional" dietary pattern was associated with poorer 
performance on all cognitive domains measured in old age (ηp(2) = 0.009 to 
0.103). After adjustment for childhood IQ (measured at the age of 11 years) and 
socioeconomic status, statistical significance was lost for most associations, 
with the exception of verbal ability and the "Mediterranean-style" pattern 
(National Adult Reading Test (NART) ηp(2) = 0.006 and Wechsler Test of Adult 
Reading (WTAR) ηp(2) = 0.013), and the "traditional" pattern (NART ηp(2) = 0.035 
and WTAR ηp(2) = 0.027).
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest a pattern of reverse causation or confounding; 
a higher childhood cognitive ability (and adult socioeconomic status) predicts 
adherence to a "healthy" diet and better cognitive performance in old age. Our 
models show no direct link between diet and cognitive performance in old age; 
instead they are related via the lifelong-stable trait of intelligence.

DOI: 10.1017/S1041610213000793
PMID: 23732046 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


723. Bioinformatics. 2013 Jul 15;29(14):1837-9. doi: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btt284. 
Epub 2013 Jun 3.

AuthorReward: increasing community curation in biological knowledge wikis 
through automated authorship quantification.

Dai L(1), Tian M, Wu J, Xiao J, Wang X, Townsend JP, Zhang Z.

Author information:
(1)CAS Key Laboratory of Genome Sciences and Information, Beijing Institute of 
Genomics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100101, China.

SUMMARY: Community curation-harnessing community intelligence in knowledge 
curation, bears great promise in dealing with the flood of biological knowledge. 
To exploit the full potential of the scientific community for knowledge 
curation, multiple biological wikis (bio-wikis) have been built to date. 
However, none of them have achieved a substantial impact on knowledge curation. 
One of the major limitations in bio-wikis is insufficient community 
participation, which is intrinsically because of lack of explicit authorship and 
thus no credit for community curation. To increase community curation in 
bio-wikis, here we develop AuthorReward, an extension to MediaWiki, to reward 
community-curated efforts in knowledge curation. AuthorReward quantifies 
researchers' contributions by properly factoring both edit quantity and quality 
and yields automated explicit authorship according to their quantitative 
contributions. AuthorReward provides bio-wikis with an authorship metric, 
helpful to increase community participation in bio-wikis and to achieve 
community curation of massive biological knowledge.
AVAILABILITY: http://cbb.big.ac.cn/software.
CONTACT: zhangzhang@big.ac.cn
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Supplementary data are available at Bioinformatics 
online.

DOI: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btt284
PMCID: PMC3702255
PMID: 23732274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


724. Neurotoxicology. 2013 Sep;38:17-22. doi: 10.1016/j.neuro.2013.05.005. Epub 2013 
May 31.

Effect modification by transferrin C2 polymorphism on lead exposure, hemoglobin 
levels, and IQ.

Roy A(1), Ettinger AS, Hu H, Bellinger D, Schwartz J, Modali R, Wright RO, 
Palaniappan K, Balakrishnan K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chronic Disease Epidemiology, Yale School of Public Health, New 
Haven, CT, United States. Electronic address: aroykaushik@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Iron deficiency and lead exposure remain significant public health 
issues in many parts of the world and are both independently associated with 
neurocognitive deficits. Polymorphisms in iron transport pathways have been 
shown to modify the absorption and toxicity of lead.
OBJECTIVE: We hypothesized that the transferrin (TF) C2 polymorphism modifies 
the effects of lead and hemoglobin on intelligence.
METHODS: Children aged 3-7 years (N=708) were enrolled from 12 primary schools 
in Chennai, India. The Binet-Kamath Scale of Intelligence were administered to 
ascertain intelligence quotient (IQ). Venous blood was analyzed for lead and 
hemoglobin levels. Genotyping for the TF C2 polymorphism (rs1049296) was carried 
out using a MassARRAY iPLEXTM platform. Stratified analyses and interaction 
models, using generalized estimating equations, were examined to explore 
interactions between lead, hemoglobin, and TF C2 categories.
RESULTS: A one-unit increase in log blood lead and 1g/dl higher hemoglobin was 
associated with -77 (95% CI: -136, -18) and 17 (95% CI 14, 21) IQ points, 
respectively, among children carrying the C2 variant. In comparison, among 
children who had the homozygous wildtype allele, the same increment of lead and 
hemoglobin were associated with -21(95% CI: -65, 24) and 28 (95% CI: 15, 40) IQ 
points, respectively. There was a significant interaction between lead (p=0.04) 
and hemoglobin (p=0.07) with the C2 variant.
CONCLUSION: Children who carry the TF C2 variant may be more susceptible to the 
neurotoxic effects of lead exposure and less protected by higher levels of 
hemoglobin.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuro.2013.05.005
PMCID: PMC3770761
PMID: 23732512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare that 
there are no conflicts of interest.


725. Mol Psychiatry. 2014 May;19(5):555-9. doi: 10.1038/mp.2013.64. Epub 2013 Jun 4.

Childhood cognitive ability accounts for associations between cognitive ability 
and brain cortical thickness in old age.

Karama S(1), Bastin ME(2), Murray C(3), Royle NA(2), Penke L(4), Muñoz Maniega 
S(2), Gow AJ(5), Corley J(3), Valdés Hernández Mdel C(2), Lewis JD(6), Rousseau 
MÉ(6), Lepage C(6), Fonov V(6), Collins DL(6), Booth T(5), Rioux P(6), Sherif 
T(6), Adalat R(6), Starr JM(7), Evans AC(6), Wardlaw JM(2), Deary IJ(5).

Author information:
(1)1] Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, McConnell Brain Imaging Center, 
Montreal Neurological Institute, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada [2] 
Department of Psychiatry, Douglas Mental Health University Institute, McGill 
University, Verdun, QC, Canada.
(2)1] Brain Research Imaging Centre, Division of Clinical Neurosciences, 
University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK [2] Department of Psychology, Center for 
Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, 
UK [3] SINAPSE (Scottish Imaging Network, A Platform for Scientific Excellence) 
Collaboration, Division of Neuroimaging Sciences, University of Edinburgh, 
Edinburgh, UK.
(3)Department of Psychology, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.
(4)1] Department of Psychology, Center for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive 
Epidemiology, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK [2] SINAPSE (Scottish 
Imaging Network, A Platform for Scientific Excellence) Collaboration, Division 
of Neuroimaging Sciences, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK [3] Department 
of Psychology, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.
(5)1] Department of Psychology, Center for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive 
Epidemiology, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK [2] Department of 
Psychology, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.
(6)Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, McConnell Brain Imaging Center, 
Montreal Neurological Institute, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada.
(7)1] Department of Psychology, Center for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive 
Epidemiology, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK [2] Alzheimer Scotland 
Dementia Research Centre, Department of Psychology, University of Edinburgh, 
Edinburgh, UK.

Associations between brain cortical tissue volume and cognitive function in old 
age are frequently interpreted as suggesting that preservation of cortical 
tissue is the foundation of successful cognitive aging. However, this 
association could also, in part, reflect a lifelong association between 
cognitive ability and cortical tissue. We analyzed data on 588 subjects from the 
Lothian Birth Cohort 1936 who had intelligence quotient (IQ) scores from the 
same cognitive test available at both 11 and 70 years of age as well as 
high-resolution brain magnetic resonance imaging data obtained at approximately 
73 years of age. Cortical thickness was estimated at 81 924 sampling points 
across the cortex for each subject using an automated pipeline. Multiple 
regression was used to assess associations between cortical thickness and the IQ 
measures at 11 and 70 years. Childhood IQ accounted for more than two-third of 
the association between IQ at 70 years and cortical thickness measured at age 73 
years. This warns against ascribing a causal interpretation to the association 
between cognitive ability and cortical tissue in old age based on assumptions 
about, and exclusive reference to, the aging process and any associated disease. 
Without early-life measures of cognitive ability, it would have been tempting to 
conclude that preservation of cortical thickness in old age is a foundation for 
successful cognitive aging when, instead, it is a lifelong association. This 
being said, results should not be construed as meaning that all studies on aging 
require direct measures of childhood IQ, but as suggesting that proxy measures 
of prior cognitive function can be useful to take into consideration.

DOI: 10.1038/mp.2013.64
PMCID: PMC3998074
PMID: 23732878 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


726. PLoS One. 2013 May 29;8(5):e64933. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0064933. Print 
2013.

Extracting physician group intelligence from electronic health records to 
support evidence based medicine.

Weber GM(1), Kohane IS.

Author information:
(1)Information Technology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA. 
weber@hms.harvard.edu

Evidence-based medicine employs expert opinion and clinical data to inform 
clinical decision making. The objective of this study is to determine whether it 
is possible to complement these sources of evidence with information about 
physician "group intelligence" that exists in electronic health records. 
Specifically, we measured laboratory test "repeat intervals", defined as the 
amount of time it takes for a physician to repeat a test that was previously 
ordered for the same patient. Our assumption is that while the result of a test 
is a direct measure of one marker of a patient's health, the physician's 
decision to order the test is based on multiple factors including past 
experience, available treatment options, and information about the patient that 
might not be coded in the electronic health record. By examining repeat 
intervals in aggregate over large numbers of patients, we show that it is 
possible to 1) determine what laboratory test results physicians consider 
"normal", 2) identify subpopulations of patients that deviate from the norm, and 
3) identify situations where laboratory tests are over-ordered. We used 
laboratory tests as just one example of how physician group intelligence can be 
used to support evidence based medicine in a way that is automated and 
continually updated.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0064933
PMCID: PMC3666978
PMID: 23734227 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: This study was conducted at 
Partners HealthCare System, a non-profit academic healthcare center in Boston, 
Massachusetts. Author Weber is paid as a software consultant by Partners 
HealthCare System; author Kohane is not paid by Partners HealthCare System. This 
does not alter the authors' adherence to all the PLOS ONE policies on sharing 
data and materials. The data used for this study is not proprietary; however, it 
contains identifiable patient information. As a result, access to this data 
would require approval of the Partners Human Research Committee (PHRC), which is 
the Institutional Review Board (IRB) of Partners Research Management at Partners 
HealthCare.


727. PLoS One. 2013 May 29;8(5):e65230. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0065230. Print 
2013.

Impact of low blood lead concentrations on IQ and school performance in Chinese 
children.

Liu J(1), Li L, Wang Y, Yan C, Liu X.

Author information:
(1)University of Pennsylvania, School of Nursing and School of Medicine, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA. jhliu@nursing.upenn.edu

OBJECTIVES: Examine the relationships between blood lead concentrations and 
children's intelligence quotient (IQ) and school performance.
PARTICIPANTS AND METHODS: Participants were 1341 children (738 boys and 603 
girls) from Jintan, China. Blood lead concentrations were measured when children 
were 3-5 years old. IQ was assessed using the Chinese version and norms of the 
Wechsler Preschool and Primary Scale of Intelligence - Revised when children 
were 6 years old. School performance was assessed by standardized city tests on 
3 major subjects (Chinese, Math, and English [as a foreign language]) when 
children were age 8-10 years.
RESULTS: Mean blood lead concentration was 6.43 µg/dL (SD = 2.64). For blood 
lead concentrations, 7.8% of children (n = 105) had ≥10.0 µg/dL, 13.8% (n = 185) 
had 8.0 to <10.0 µg/dL, and 78.4% (n = 1051) had <8.0 µg/dL. Compared to 
children with blood lead concentrations <8 µg/dL, those with blood lead 
concentrations ≥8 µg/dL scored 2-3 points lower in IQ and 5-6 points lower in 
school tests. There were no significant differences in IQ or school tests 
between children with blood lead concentrations groups 8-10 and ≥10 µg/dL. After 
adjustment for child and family characteristics and IQ, blood lead 
concentrations ≥10 µg/dL vs <8 µg/dL at ages 3-5 years was associated with 
reduced scores on school tests at age 8-10 years (Chinese, β = -3.54, 
95%CI = -6.46, -0.63; Math, β = -4.63, 95%CI = -7.86, -1.40; English, β = -4.66, 
95%CI = -8.09, -1.23). IQ partially mediated the relationship between elevated 
blood lead concentrations and later school performance.
CONCLUSIONS: Findings support that blood lead concentrations in early childhood, 
even <10 µg/dL, have a long-term negative impact on cognitive development. The 
association between blood lead concentrations 8-10 µg/dL and cognitive 
development needs further study in Chinese children and children from other 
developing countries.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0065230
PMCID: PMC3667072
PMID: 23734241 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


728. Ital J Pediatr. 2013 Jun 4;39:36. doi: 10.1186/1824-7288-39-36.

Intellectual function evaluation of first generation immigrant children with 
sickle cell disease: the role of language and sociodemographic factors.

Montanaro M(1), Colombatti R, Pugliese M, Migliozzi C, Zani F, Guerzoni ME, 
Manoli S, Manara R, Meneghetti G, Rampazzo P, Cavalleri F, Giordan M, Paolucci 
P, Basso G, Palazzi G, Sainati L.

Author information:
(1)Clinic of Pediatric Hematology-Oncology, Department of Pediatrics, Azienda 
Ospedaliera-University of Padova, Padua, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Sickle Cell Disease (SCD) is the most common genetic disease 
worldwide. Neurological events are among the most worrisome clinical 
complications of SCD and are frequently accompanied by cognitive impairment. 
Intellectual function in SCD may vary according to genetic and environmental 
factors. Immigrant children with SCD are increasing at a global level and 
display specific health care needs. The aim of our multicenter study was to 
describe the intellectual function of first generation African immigrants with 
SCD and the influence of sociodemographic factors on its characteristics.
METHODS: The Wechsler Intelligence Scales were administered to evaluate broad 
intellectual functions in children with SCD and in age-matched healthy siblings. 
Patients' clinical, socio-demographic, Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) and 
Angiography (MRA) data were correlated to intellectual function scores.
RESULTS: 68 children, mean age 8.95 years were evaluated. 72% spoke three 
languages, 21% two. FSIQ was <75 in 25% of the children. Mean VIQ was lower than 
PIQ in 75%. Mean verbal subtest scores were lower than performance scores. 
Female gender, number of languages spoken at home and mother's employment were 
associated with single subtest performances (p < 0.05). MRA was abnormal in 
73.4% and MRI in 35.9%. No significant correlation was established between 
silent lesions and intellectual function, even if patients with lesions 
performed worse. Fifteen siblings performed better than patients on cognitive 
domains, including language (p < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Immigrant bilingual children with SCD seem to display a rate of 
cognitive impairment similar to their monolingual counterparts but a more 
pronounced and precocious onset of language difficulties. Adjunctive tests need 
to be considered in this group of patients to better define their specific 
deficits.

DOI: 10.1186/1824-7288-39-36
PMCID: PMC3704731
PMID: 23735165 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


729. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2013 Jun 5;2013(6):CD001507. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD001507.pub3.

Tyrosine supplementation for phenylketonuria.

Webster D(1), Wildgoose J.

Author information:
(1)Nutrition and Dietetic Department, Bristol Royal Hospital for Children, 
Bristol, UK. Diana.Webster@ubht.nhs.uk.

Update in
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2021 Jan 4;1:CD001507.

Update of
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2010;(8):CD001507.

BACKGROUND: Phenylketonuria is an inherited disease for which the main treatment 
is the dietary restriction of the amino acid phenylalanine. The diet has to be 
initiated in the neonatal period to prevent or reduce mental handicap. However, 
the diet is very restrictive and unpalatable and can be difficult to follow. A 
deficiency of the amino acid tyrosine has been suggested as a cause of some of 
the neuropsychological problems exhibited in phenylketonuria. Therefore, this 
review aims to assess the efficacy of tyrosine supplementation for 
phenylketonuria.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the effects of tyrosine supplementation alongside or 
instead of a phenylalanine-restricted diet for people with phenylketonuria, who 
commenced on diet at diagnosis and either continued on the diet or relaxed the 
diet later in life. To assess the evidence that tyrosine supplementation 
alongside, or instead of a phenylalanine-restricted diet improves intelligence, 
neuropsychological performance, growth and nutritional status, mortality rate 
and quality of life.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched the Cochrane Cystic Fibrosis and Genetic Disorders 
Group's Trials Register which is comprised of references identified from 
comprehensive electronic database searches, handsearches of relevant journals 
and abstract books of conference proceedings. Additional studies were identified 
from handsearches of the Journal of Inherited Metabolic Disease (from inception 
in 1978 to 1998). The manufacturers of prescribable dietary products used in the 
treatment of phenylketonuria were also contacted for further references.Date of 
the most recent search of the Group's Inborn Errors of Metabolism Trials 
Register: 28 June 2012.
SELECTION CRITERIA: All randomised or quasi-randomised trials investigating the 
use of tyrosine supplementation versus placebo in people with phenylketonuria in 
addition to, or instead of, a phenylalanine-restricted diet. People treated for 
maternal phenylketonuria were excluded.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two authors independently assessed the trial 
eligibility, methodological quality and extracted the data.
MAIN RESULTS: Six trials were found, of which three trials reporting the results 
of a total of 56 participants, were suitable for inclusion in the review. The 
blood tyrosine concentrations were significantly higher in the participants 
receiving tyrosine supplements than those in the placebo group, mean difference 
23.46 (95% confidence interval 12.87 to 34.05). No significant differences were 
found between any of the other outcomes measured.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: From the available evidence no recommendations can be made 
about whether tyrosine supplementation should be introduced into routine 
clinical practice. Further randomised controlled studies are required to provide 
more evidence.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD001507.pub3
PMCID: PMC7057270
PMID: 23737086 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Current authors: Diana Webster has received 
travel expenses to attend conferences from the manufacturers of dietary products 
used in the treatment of PKU. Previous authors: Vanessa Poustie and Tricia 
Rutherford have previously received travel expenses to attend conferences from 
the manufacturers of dietary products used in the treatment of PKU. Mrs Tricia 
Rutherford has been employed by Vitaflo, a manufacturer of protein substitutes, 
since September 2005; however, the protocol and the original review were 
completed prior to her commencing employment at this company.


730. Stud Health Technol Inform. 2013;189:44-9.

Case-based reasoning in Intelligent Health Decision Support Systems.

González C(1), López DM, Blobel B.

Author information:
(1)Computational Intelligence Research Group, University of Cauca, Colombia.

Decision-making is a crucial task for decision makers in healthcare, especially 
because decisions have to be made quickly, accurately and under uncertainty. 
Taking into account the importance of providing quality decisions, offering 
assistance in this complex process has been one of the main challenges of 
Artificial Intelligence throughout history. Decision Support Systems (DSS) have 
gained popularity in the medical field for their efficacy to assist 
decision-making. In this sense, many DSS have been developed, but only few of 
them consider processing and analysis of information contained in electronic 
health records, in order to identify individual or population health risk 
factors. This paper deals with Intelligent Decision Support Systems that are 
integrated into Electronic Health Records Systems (EHRS) or Public Health 
Information Systems (PHIS). It provides comprehensive support for a wide range 
of decisions with the purpose of improving quality of care delivered to patients 
or public health planning, respectively.

PMID: 23739355 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


731. Intensive Care Med. 2013 Sep;39(9):1584-93. doi: 10.1007/s00134-013-2973-1. Epub 
2013 Jun 6.

Neurodevelopmental, educational and behavioral outcome at 8 years after neonatal 
ECMO: a nationwide multicenter study.

Madderom MJ(1), Reuser JJ, Utens EM, van Rosmalen J, Raets M, Govaert P, Steiner 
K, Gischler SJ, Tibboel D, van Heijst AF, Ijsselstijn H.

Author information:
(1)Intensive Care and Department of Paediatric Surgery, Erasmus Medical 
Center-Sophia Children's Hospital, Room Sk 1280; dr. Molewaterplein 60, 3015 GJ, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

Comment in
    Intensive Care Med. 2013 Oct;39(10):1870-2.

PURPOSE: Reporting neurodevelopmental outcome of 8-year-old children treated 
with neonatal extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO).
METHODS: In a follow-up study in 135 8-year-old children who received neonatal 
ECMO between 1996 and 2001 we assessed intelligence (Revised Amsterdam 
Intelligence Test), concentration (Bourdon-Vos test), eye-hand coordination 
(Developmental Test of Visual-Motor Integration) and behavior (Child Behavior 
Checklist and Teacher Report Form).
RESULTS: Intelligence fell within normal range (mean IQ 99.9, SD 17.7, n = 125) 
with 91 % of the children following regular education. Significantly more 
children attended special education (9 %) or received extra support in regular 
education (39 %) compared with normative data. Slower working speed (χ(2) = 
132.36, p < 0.001) and less accuracy (χ(2) = 12.90, p < 0.001) were found on the 
Bourdon-Vos test (n = 123) compared with normative data. Eye-hand coordination 
fell within the normal range (mean 97.6, SD 14.3, n = 126); children with 
congenital diaphragmatic hernia scored lowest but still normally (mean 91.0, SD 
16.4, n = 28). Mothers (n = 117) indicated more somatic and attention behavior 
problems; teachers (n = 115) indicated more somatic, social, thought, aggression 
and total problems compared with normative data. Mothers indicated more somatic 
problems than teachers (p = 0.003); teachers reported more attention problems 
than mothers (p = 0.036; n = 111).
CONCLUSIONS: Eight-year-old children treated with neonatal ECMO fall in the 
normal range of intelligence with problems with concentration and behavior. 
Long-term follow-up for children treated with neonatal ECMO should focus on 
early detection of (subtle) learning deficits.

DOI: 10.1007/s00134-013-2973-1
PMID: 23740280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


732. BMC Med Educ. 2013 Jun 7;13:82. doi: 10.1186/1472-6920-13-82.

Expressing one's feelings and listening to others increases emotional 
intelligence: a pilot study of Asian medical students.

Abe K(1), Evans P, Austin EJ, Suzuki Y, Fujisaki K, Niwa M, Aomatsu M.

Author information:
(1)Medical Education Development Centre, Gifu University School of Medicine, 
Gifu, Japan.

BACKGROUND: There has been considerable interest in Emotional Intelligence (EI) 
in undergraduate medical education, with respect to student selection and 
admissions, health and well-being and academic performance. EI is a significant 
component of the physician-patient relationship. The emotional well-being of the 
physician is, therefore, a significant component in patient care. The aim is to 
examine the measurement of TEIQue-SF in Asian medical students and to explore 
how the practice of listening to the feelings of others and expressing one's own 
feelings influences an individual's EI, set in the context of the emotional 
well-being of a medical practitioner.
METHODS: A group of 183 international undergraduate medical students attended a 
half-day workshop (WS) about mental-health and well-being. They completed a 
self-reported measure of EI on three occasions, pre- and post-workshop, and a 
1-year follow-up.
RESULT: The reliability of TEIQue-SF was high and the reliabilities of its four 
factors were acceptable. There were strong correlations between the TEIQue-SF 
and personality traits. A paired t-test indicated significant positive changes 
after the WS for all students (n=181, p=.014), male students (n=78, p=.015) and 
non-Japanese students (n=112, p=.007), but a repeated measures analysis showed 
that one year post-workshop there were significant positive changes for all 
students (n=55, p=.034), female students (n=31, p=.007), especially Japanese 
female students (n=13, p=.023). Moreover, 80% of the students reported that they 
were more attentive listeners, and 60% agreed that they were more confident in 
dealing with emotional issues, both within themselves and in others, as a result 
of the workshop.
CONCLUSION: This study found the measurement of TEIQue-SF is appropriate and 
reliable to use for Asian medical students. The mental health workshop was 
helpful to develop medical students' EI but showed different results for gender 
and nationality. The immediate impact on the emotional awareness of individuals 
was particularly significant for male students and the non-Japanese group. The 
impact over the long term was notable for the significant increase in EI for 
females and Japanese. Japanese female students were more conscious about 
emotionality. Emotion-driven communication exercises might strongly influence 
the development of students' EI over a year.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6920-13-82
PMCID: PMC3685545
PMID: 23742245 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


733. Nurse Educ Today. 2013 Dec;33(12):1490-5. doi: 10.1016/j.nedt.2013.05.008. Epub 
2013 Jun 3.

Work readiness of graduate nurses and the impact on job satisfaction, work 
engagement and intention to remain.

Walker A(1), Campbell K.

Author information:
(1)School of Psychology, Deakin University, Victoria Australia. Electronic 
address: arlene.walker@deakin.edu.au.

BACKGROUND AND AIM: Graduate work readiness is a relatively new construct that 
can predict graduate potential. Its impact on graduate work outcomes however, is 
unknown. The current study aimed to explore the relationships between work 
readiness and a number of work outcomes (job satisfaction, work engagement, and 
intention to remain).
DESIGN AND PARTICIPANTS: A survey design was used. A sample of 96 graduate 
nurses from two regional hospitals in Victoria, Australia participated in this 
study.
METHOD: Data were collected using quantitative surveys
RESULTS: Three of the four work readiness dimensions (organisational acumen, 
clinical competence and social intelligence) were found to predict job 
satisfaction and work engagement. Moreover, both job satisfaction and work 
engagement were found to mediate the relationship between organisational acumen 
and intention to remain. The findings indicate that dimensions of work readiness 
uniquely predict work outcomes.
CONCLUSION: Findings support prior research, which suggests that graduate work 
readiness is a multidimensional construct comprising skills and attributes 
beyond discipline-specific competence.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nedt.2013.05.008
PMID: 23742716 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


734. J Psychiatr Res. 2013 Sep;47(9):1240-6. doi: 10.1016/j.jpsychires.2013.05.009. 
Epub 2013 Jun 3.

Reduced but broader prefrontal activity in patients with schizophrenia during 
n-back working memory tasks: a multi-channel near-infrared spectroscopy study.

Koike S(1), Takizawa R, Nishimura Y, Kinou M, Kawasaki S, Kasai K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Graduate School of Medicine, The University of 
Tokyo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-8655, Japan. skoike-tky@umin.ac.jp

Erratum in
    J Psychiatr Res. 2015 Apr;63:143.

BACKGROUND: Caudal regions of the prefrontal cortex, including the dorsolateral 
(DLPFC) and ventrolateral (VLPFC) prefrontal cortex, are involved in essential 
cognitive functions such as working memory. In contrast, more rostral regions, 
such as the frontopolar cortex (FpC), have integrative functions among cognitive 
functions and thereby contribute crucially to real-world social activity. 
Previous functional magnetic resonance imaging studies have shown patients with 
schizophrenia had different DLPFC activity pattern in response to cognitive load 
changes compared to healthy controls; however, the spatial relationship between 
the caudal and rostral prefrontal activation has not been evaluated under 
less-constrained conditions.
METHOD: Twenty-six patients with schizophrenia and 26 age-, sex-, and 
premorbid-intelligence-matched healthy controls participated in this study. 
Hemodynamic changes during n-back working memory tasks with different cognitive 
loads were measured using multi-channel near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS).
RESULTS: Healthy controls showed significant task-related activity in the 
bilateral VLPFC and significant task-related decreased activity in the DLPFC, 
with greater signal changes when the task required more cognitive load. In 
contrast, patients with schizophrenia showed activation in the more rostral 
regions, including bilateral DLPFC and FpC. Neither decreased activity nor 
greater activation in proportion to elevated cognitive load occurred.
CONCLUSIONS: This multi-channel NIRS study demonstrated that activation 
intensity did not increase in patients with schizophrenia associated with 
cognitive load changes, suggesting hypo-frontality as cognitive impairment in 
schizophrenia. On the other hand, patients had broader prefrontal activity in 
areas such as the bilateral DLPFC and FpC regions, thus suggesting a 
hyper-frontality compensatory response.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpsychires.2013.05.009
PMID: 23743135 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


735. Patient Educ Couns. 2013 Aug;92(2):223-8. doi: 10.1016/j.pec.2013.05.002. Epub 
2013 Jun 3.

Patient behavior and the benefits of artificial intelligence: the perils of 
"dangerous" literacy and illusory patient empowerment.

Schulz PJ(1), Nakamoto K.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Communication and Health, University of Lugano (Università della 
Svizzera italiana), Lugano, Switzerland. peter.schulz@usi.ch

OBJECTIVE: Artificial intelligence can provide important support of patient 
health. However, limits to realized benefits can arise as patients assume an 
active role in their health decisions.
METHODS: Distinguishing the concepts of health literacy and patient empowerment, 
we analyze conditions that bias patient use of the Internet and limit access to 
and impact of artificial intelligence.
RESULTS: Improving health literacy in the face of the Internet requires 
significant guidance. Patients must be directed toward the appropriate tools and 
also provided with key background knowledge enabling them to use the tools and 
capitalize on the artificial intelligence technology.
CONCLUSION: Benefits of tools employing artificial intelligence to promote 
health cannot be realized without recognizing and addressing the patients' 
desires, expectations, and limitations that impact their Internet behavior. In 
order to benefit from artificial intelligence, patients need a substantial level 
of background knowledge and skill in information use-i.e., health literacy.
PRACTICE IMPLICATIONS: It is critical that health professionals respond to 
patient search for information on the Internet, first by guiding their search to 
relevant, authoritative, and responsive sources, and second by educating 
patients about how to interpret the information they are likely to encounter.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pec.2013.05.002
PMID: 23743214 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


736. Blood. 2013 Jul 25;122(4):550-3. doi: 10.1182/blood-2013-03-487744. Epub 2013 
Jun 6.

Long-term decline in intelligence among adult survivors of childhood acute 
lymphoblastic leukemia treated with cranial radiation.

Krull KR(1), Zhang N, Santucci A, Srivastava DK, Krasin MJ, Kun LE, Pui CH, 
Robison LL, Hudson MM, Armstrong GT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Cancer Control, St. Jude Children’s Research 
Hospital, Memphis, TN 38105-3678, USA. kevin.krull@stjude.org

Survivors of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) treated with cranial 
radiation therapy (CRT) are at risk for cognitive impairment, although whether 
impairment progresses with age into adulthood is unknown. We report change in 
intelligence for 102 adult survivors of childhood ALL (age range, 26.6-54.7 
years) during a median interval of 28.5 years. Survivors demonstrated lower 
Performance intelligence (mean, 95.3; standard deviation, 16.5; P = .005) but 
not Verbal IQ (mean, 97.4; standard deviation, 15.44; P = .09) at initial 
testing. Verbal intelligence declined an average of 10.3 points (P < .0001) 
during the follow-up interval with no decline in Performance intelligence. 
Decline was associated with current attention problems (P = .002) but not 
gender, CRT dose, age at CRT exposure, or years between testing. Results suggest 
long-term survivors of childhood ALL treated with CRT are at risk for 
progressive decline in verbal intellect, which may be driven by attention 
deficits. This trial was registered at clinicaltrials.gov as no. NCT00760656.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2013-03-487744
PMCID: PMC3724191
PMID: 23744583 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


737. Psychol Sci. 2013 Jul 1;24(7):1226-33. doi: 10.1177/0956797612471540. Epub 2013 
Jun 6.

General cognitive ability and the psychological refractory period: individual 
differences in the mind's bottleneck.

Lee JJ(1), Chabris CF.

Author information:
(1)Harvard University, MA, USA.

Identifying the precise locus of general cognitive ability (g) in the flow of 
information between perception and action is an important goal of differential 
psychology. To localize the negative correlation between g and reaction time to 
a specific processing stage, we administered a speeded number-comparison task to 
two groups differing in average g. The participants had to respond to two 
stimuli in each trial, which produced the well-known slowing of the second 
reaction time known as the psychological refractory period. The difference in 
the second reaction time favoring the high-g group doubled as the stimulus 
onsets became very close together. This finding affirms that the faster reaction 
times of higher-g individuals reflect an advantage exclusively in the serial 
bottleneck of central processing and not in the parallel peripheral stages.

DOI: 10.1177/0956797612471540
PMID: 23744874 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


738. Huan Jing Ke Xue. 2013 Mar;34(3):892-9.

[An object-oriented intelligent engineering design approach for lake pollution 
control].

[Article in Chinese]

Zou R(1), Zhou J, Liu Y, Zhu X, Zhao L, Yang PJ, Guo HC.

Author information:
(1)Tetra Tech, Inc, 10306 Eaton Place, Ste 340, Fairfax, VA 22030, USA. 
rz5q@yahoo.com

Regarding the shortage and deficiency of traditional lake pollution control 
engineering techniques, a new lake pollution control engineering approach was 
proposed in this study, based on object-oriented intelligent design (OOID) from 
the perspective of intelligence. It can provide a new methodology and framework 
for effectively controlling lake pollution and improving water quality. The 
differences between the traditional engineering techniques and the OOID approach 
were compared. The key points for OOID were described as object perspective, 
cause and effect foundation, set points into surface, and temporal and spatial 
optimization. The blue algae control in lake was taken as an example in this 
study. The effect of algae control and water quality improvement were analyzed 
in details from the perspective of object-oriented intelligent design based on 
two engineering techniques (vertical hydrodynamic mixer and pumping algaecide 
recharge). The modeling results showed that the traditional engineering design 
paradigm cannot provide scientific and effective guidance for engineering design 
and decision-making regarding lake pollution. Intelligent design approach is 
based on the object perspective and quantitative causal analysis in this case. 
This approach identified that the efficiency of mixers was much higher than 
pumps in achieving the goal of low to moderate water quality improvement. 
However, when the objective of water quality exceeded a certain value (such as 
the control objective of peak Chla concentration exceeded 100 microg x L(-1) in 
this experimental water), the mixer cannot achieve this goal. The pump technique 
can achieve the goal but with higher cost. The efficiency of combining the two 
techniques was higher than using one of the two techniques alone. Moreover, the 
quantitative scale control of the two engineering techniques has a significant 
impact on the actual project benefits and costs.

PMID: 23745391 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


739. Memory. 2014;22(4):426-41. doi: 10.1080/09658211.2013.797471. Epub 2013 Jun 7.

Why is working memory related to intelligence? Different contributions from 
storage and processing.

Dang CP(1), Braeken J, Colom R, Ferrer E, Liu C.

Author information:
(1)a Department of Psychology , Guangzhou Medical University , China.

Domain-specific contributions of working memory (WM), short-term memory (STM), 
and executive functioning (EF) to individual differences in intelligence were 
analysed using a latent variable approach. A sample of 345 participants 
completed a battery of 24 tests tapping the constructs of interests as 
comprehensively as possible. Visuospatial and verbal STM and WM tasks were 
administered along with three subcomponents of EF, namely inhibition, planning, 
and shifting. Intelligence was assessed by non-verbal/abstract/fluid 
intelligence (Gf) and verbal/crystallised intelligence (Gc) standardised tests. 
Structural equation modelling results show that EF is the main predictor of Gf, 
whereas verbal STM is the main predictor of Gc. Storage and processing providing 
different contributions to the prediction of Gf and Gc supports the view that 
both short-term storage and executive functioning account for the relationship 
between WM and intelligence. This main conclusion stresses the importance of 
acknowledging core cognitive constructs as being hierarchical systems with 
general and domain-specific mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1080/09658211.2013.797471
PMID: 23745736 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


740. Child Neuropsychol. 2014;20(3):372-7. doi: 10.1080/09297049.2013.799642. Epub 
2013 Jun 7.

Assessing the accuracy of the WISC-IV seven-subtest short form and the child and 
adolescent intellectual disability screening questionnaire in identifying 
intellectual disability in children.

McKenzie K(1), Murray AL, Murray KR, Murray GC.

Author information:
(1)a Clinical Psychology , University of Edinburgh , Edinburgh , United Kingdom.

Little research has been conducted into the accuracy of abbreviated assessments 
in identifying children and young people with an intellectual disability (ID). 
The present study compared two such methods in a clinical population of 
individuals with (n = 106) and without (n = 170) ID: a 7-subtest short form of 
the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scales for Children--fourth edition (WISC-IV) 
proposed by Crawford and colleagues and the Child and Adolescent Intellectual 
Disability Screening Questionnaire (CAIDS-Q). Both the CAIDS-Q and the WISC-IV 
short form had high and comparable levels of predicting group classification 
(88% and 91% correct classification, respectively). Both methods would appear to 
offer clinicians and researchers an efficient and accurate means of identifying 
those who are likely to have ID. The WISC-IV short form was slightly more 
accurate, but the CAIDS-Q may offer the advantages of being shorter to 
administer and having no requirement for the user to have a particular 
qualification or training.

DOI: 10.1080/09297049.2013.799642
PMID: 23745760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


741. Comput Biol Med. 2013 Aug 1;43(7):922-32. doi: 10.1016/j.compbiomed.2013.04.008. 
Epub 2013 Apr 24.

An ant colony optimization based algorithm for identifying gene regulatory 
elements.

Liu W(1), Chen H, Chen L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Southeast University, Nanjing 
210096, China. yzliuwei@126.com

It is one of the most important tasks in bioinformatics to identify the 
regulatory elements in gene sequences. Most of the existing algorithms for 
identifying regulatory elements are inclined to converge into a local optimum, 
and have high time complexity. Ant Colony Optimization (ACO) is a meta-heuristic 
method based on swarm intelligence and is derived from a model inspired by the 
collective foraging behavior of real ants. Taking advantage of the ACO in traits 
such as self-organization and robustness, this paper designs and implements an 
ACO based algorithm named ACRI (ant-colony-regulatory-identification) for 
identifying all possible binding sites of transcription factor from the upstream 
of co-expressed genes. To accelerate the ants' searching process, a strategy of 
local optimization is presented to adjust the ants' start positions on the 
searched sequences. By exploiting the powerful optimization ability of ACO, the 
algorithm ACRI can not only improve precision of the results, but also achieve a 
very high speed. Experimental results on real world datasets show that ACRI can 
outperform other traditional algorithms in the respects of speed and quality of 
solutions.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.compbiomed.2013.04.008
PMID: 23746735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


742. Patient Educ Couns. 2013 Nov;93(2):177-87. doi: 10.1016/j.pec.2013.05.010. Epub 
2013 Jun 6.

The influence of medical students' and doctors' attachment style and emotional 
intelligence on their patient-provider communication.

Cherry MG(1), Fletcher I, O'Sullivan H.

Author information:
(1)Division of Clinical Psychology, University of Liverpool, Liverpool, UK. 
Electronic address: m.g.cherry@liverpool.ac.uk.

OBJECTIVE: Attachment style and emotional intelligence (EI) have been 
highlighted as potential factors influencing the variation in medical students' 
and doctors' patient-provider communication (PPC), particularly in relation to 
emotive issues. The objective of this review is to systematically review and 
synthesise the published literature relating to the influence of medical 
students' and/or doctors' attachment style and EI on their PPC.
METHODS: Electronic and hand searches were conducted to identify all published 
literature relating to the aim of the review. Data were narratively synthesised.
RESULTS: 1597 studies were identified. 14 were included in the review, of which 
5 assessed the influence of attachment style and 9 assessed the influence of EI 
on PPC. No studies assessed the impact of both attachment style and EI on PPC.
CONCLUSION: Whilst tentative links were found between both PPC and both 
attachment style and EI, heterogeneity in study design, predictor variables and 
outcome measures made drawing conclusions difficult.
PRACTICE IMPLICATIONS: More research is needed to assess the influence of both 
attachment style and EI on PPC.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pec.2013.05.010
PMID: 23747090 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


743. Epilepsy Behav. 2013 Aug;28(2):156-62. doi: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2013.04.020. Epub 
2013 Jun 7.

Cerebellar volume is linked to cognitive function in temporal lobe epilepsy: a 
quantitative MRI study.

Hellwig S(1), Gutmann V, Trimble MR, van Elst LT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University Hospital Freiburg, 
Freiburg, Germany. sabine.hellwig@uniklinik-freiburg.de

INTRODUCTION: Chronic intractable temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) is associated 
with certain comorbidities including cognitive impairment. A less common 
condition among patients with TLE is intermittent explosive disorder (IED), a 
specific form of aggressive behavior that has been linked to low intelligence 
and structural pathology in the amygdala. We aimed to identify other 
neuroanatomical substrates of both cognitive dysfunction and IED in patients 
with TLE, with special focus on the cerebellum, a brain region known to 
participate in functional networks involved in neuropsychological and affective 
processes.
METHODS: Magnetic resonance imaging-based volumetric data from 60 patients with 
temporal lobe epilepsy (36 with and 24 without IED) were evaluated. Cerebellar, 
hippocampal, and total brain volumes were processed separately. In a total of 50 
patients, the relationship between volumetric measurements and clinical and 
neuropsychological data (full-scale, verbal, and performance intelligence 
quotients) was analyzed.
RESULTS: Intermittent explosive disorder in patients with TLE was not 
significantly linked to any of the regional volumes analyzed. However, cognitive 
performance showed a significant association both with total brain volume and 
cerebellar volume measurements, whereby the left cerebellar volume showed the 
strongest association. A deviation from normal cerebellar volumes was related to 
lower intelligence. Of note, left cerebellar volume was influenced by age and 
duration of epilepsy. Hippocampal volumes had a minor influence on cognitive 
parameters.
CONCLUSION: Our findings suggest that cerebellar volume is not linked to IED in 
patients with TLE but is significantly associated with cognitive dysfunction. 
Our findings support recent hypotheses proposing that the cerebellum has a 
relevant functional topography.

Copyright © 2013 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2013.04.020
PMID: 23747499 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


744. Genomics. 2013 Oct;102(4):237-42. doi: 10.1016/j.ygeno.2013.05.006. Epub 2013 
Jun 6.

PPIevo: protein-protein interaction prediction from PSSM based evolutionary 
information.

Zahiri J(1), Yaghoubi O, Mohammad-Noori M, Ebrahimpour R, Masoudi-Nejad A.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Systems Biology and Bioinformatics (LBB), Institute of 
Biochemistry and Biophysics, University of Tehran, Tehran, Iran.

Protein-protein interactions regulate a variety of cellular processes. There is 
a great need for computational methods as a complement to experimental methods 
with which to predict protein interactions due to the existence of many 
limitations involved in experimental techniques. Here, we introduce a novel 
evolutionary based feature extraction algorithm for protein-protein interaction 
(PPI) prediction. The algorithm is called PPIevo and extracts the evolutionary 
feature from Position-Specific Scoring Matrix (PSSM) of protein with known 
sequence. The algorithm does not depend on the protein annotations, and the 
features are based on the evolutionary history of the proteins. This enables the 
algorithm to have more power for predicting protein-protein interaction than 
many sequence based algorithms. Results on the HPRD database show better 
performance and robustness of the proposed method. They also reveal that the 
negative dataset selection could lead to an acute performance overestimation 
which is the principal drawback of the available methods.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ygeno.2013.05.006
PMID: 23747746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


745. Sensors (Basel). 2013 Jun 7;13(6):7414-42. doi: 10.3390/s130607414.

An intelligent surveillance platform for large metropolitan areas with dense 
sensor deployment.

Fernández J(1), Calavia L, Baladrón C, Aguiar JM, Carro B, Sánchez-Esguevillas 
A, Alonso-López JA, Smilansky Z.

Author information:
(1)Dpto. TSyCeIT, ETSIT, Universidad de Valladolid, Paseo de Belén 15, 
Valladolid 47011, Spain. jfergur@ribera.tel.uva.es

This paper presents an intelligent surveillance platform based on the usage of 
large numbers of inexpensive sensors designed and developed inside the European 
Eureka Celtic project HuSIMS. With the aim of maximizing the number of 
deployable units while keeping monetary and resource/bandwidth costs at a 
minimum, the surveillance platform is based on the usage of inexpensive visual 
sensors which apply efficient motion detection and tracking algorithms to 
transform the video signal in a set of motion parameters. In order to automate 
the analysis of the myriad of data streams generated by the visual sensors, the 
platform's control center includes an alarm detection engine which comprises 
three components applying three different Artificial Intelligence strategies in 
parallel. These strategies are generic, domain-independent approaches which are 
able to operate in several domains (traffic surveillance, vandalism prevention, 
perimeter security, etc.). The architecture is completed with a versatile 
communication network which facilitates data collection from the visual sensors 
and alarm and video stream distribution towards the emergency teams. The 
resulting surveillance system is extremely suitable for its deployment in 
metropolitan areas, smart cities, and large facilities, mainly because cheap 
visual sensors and autonomous alarm detection facilitate dense sensor network 
deployments for wide and detailed coverage.

DOI: 10.3390/s130607414
PMCID: PMC3715256
PMID: 23748169


746. Perspect Biol Med. 2013 Winter;56(1):148-66. doi: 10.1353/pbm.2013.0007.

Understanding unconscious intelligence and intuition: "blink" and beyond.

Isenman L(1).

Author information:
(1)Women’s Studies Research Center, MS 079, Brandeis University, Waltham, MA 
09254, USA. lisenman@brandeis.edu

The importance of unconscious intelligence and intuition is increasingly 
acknowledged by the scientific community. This essay examines and assesses the 
varied views on the topic presented in three books that bridge the scientific 
world and reading public: Blink by Malcolm Gladwell (2005), Gut Feelings by Gerd 
Gigerenzer (2008), and How Doctors Think by Jerome Groopman (2007). The analysis 
differentiates among kinds of unconscious intelligence and points towards a more 
complete understanding of the higher cognitive potential of the unconscious 
mind.

DOI: 10.1353/pbm.2013.0007
PMID: 23748532 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


747. Law Hum Behav. 2014 Feb;38(1):23-33. doi: 10.1037/lhb0000036. Epub 2013 Jun 10.

Does IQ moderate the relation between psychopathy and juvenile offending?

Hampton AS(1), Drabick DA(1), Steinberg L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Temple University.

Although evidence indicates that both psychopathy and intelligence independently 
predict juvenile offending, relations among IQ, psychopathy, and offending are 
inconsistent. We investigated whether intelligence moderates the relation 
between psychopathy and both income and aggressive offending concurrently and 
over time among 1,354 juvenile offenders enrolled in Pathways to Desistance, a 
prospective study of serious juvenile offenders in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 
and Phoenix, Arizona. Participants were assessed on intelligence, psychopathy, 
and self-reported offending at their initial interview (age range: 14-18 years 
old), and at 36 and 84 months later. Results indicate that intelligence 
moderates the concurrent relation between both income and aggressive offending 
and total psychopathy, as well as scores on Factor 1 (interpersonal/affective) 
and Factor 2 (social deviance); the 36-month prospective relation between all 
aspects of psychopathy and income offending; and the 84-month prospective 
relation between Factor 2 psychopathy and aggressive offending. As expected, 
higher levels of psychopathy are associated with higher levels of offending, but 
the highest levels of offending are evinced among youth with relatively higher 
levels of psychopathy and relatively higher IQ.

DOI: 10.1037/lhb0000036
PMCID: PMC3864133
PMID: 23750597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


748. J Clin Nurs. 2014 Apr;23(7-8):955-66. doi: 10.1111/jocn.12259. Epub 2013 Jun 10.

Perceived emotional intelligence in nursing: psychometric properties of the 
Trait Meta-Mood Scale.

Aradilla-Herrero A(1), Tomás-Sábado J, Gómez-Benito J.

Author information:
(1)Gimbernat Nursing School, Autonomous University of Barcelona, Barcelona, 
Spain.

AIMS AND OBJECTIVES: To examine the psychometric properties of the Trait 
Meta-Mood Scale in the nursing context and to determine the relationships 
between emotional intelligence, self-esteem, alexithymia and death anxiety.
BACKGROUND: The Trait Meta-Mood Scale is one of the most widely used self-report 
measures for assessing perceived emotional intelligence. However, in the nursing 
context, no extensive analysis has been conducted to examine its psychometric 
properties.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional and observational study.
METHODS: A total of 1417 subjects participated in the study (1208 nursing 
students and 209 hospital nurses). The Trait Meta-Mood Scale, the Toronto 
Alexithymia Scale, the Rosenberg Self-Esteem Scale and the Death Anxiety 
Inventory were all applied to half of the sample (n = 707). A confirmatory 
factor analysis was carried out, and statistical analyses examined the internal 
consistency and test-retest reliability of the Trait Meta-Mood Scale, as well as 
its relationship with relevant variables.
RESULTS: Confirmatory factor analysis confirmed the three dimensions of the 
original scale (Attention, Clarity and Repair). The instrument showed adequate 
internal consistency and temporal stability. Correlational results indicated 
that nurses with high scores on emotional Attention experience more death 
anxiety, report greater difficulties identifying feelings and have less 
self-esteem. By contrast, nurses with high levels of emotional Clarity and 
Repair showed less death anxiety and higher levels of self-esteem.
CONCLUSIONS: The Trait Meta-Mood Scale is an effective, valid and reliable tool 
for measuring perceived emotional intelligence in the nursing context. Training 
programmes should seek to promote emotional abilities among nurses.
RELEVANCE TO CLINICAL PRACTICE: Use of the Trait Meta-Mood Scale in the nursing 
context would provide information about nurses' perceived abilities to interpret 
and manage emotions when interacting with patients.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jocn.12259
PMID: 23750810 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


749. J Exp Psychol Learn Mem Cogn. 2013 Nov;39(6):1697-1711. doi: 10.1037/a0033091. 
Epub 2013 Jun 10.

Learning what to learn: the effects of task experience on strategy shifts in the 
allocation of study time.

Ariel R(1).

Author information:
(1)Georgia Institute of Technology.

Learners typically allocate more resources to learning items that are higher in 
value than they do to items lower in value. For instance, when items vary in 
point value for learning, participants allocate more study time to the higher 
point items than they do to the lower point items. The current experiments 
extend this research to a context where the value of items is not explicitly 
labeled by evaluating whether learners' study decisions are sensitive to 
statistical regularities in the testing environment that signal which items are 
valuable to learn. In 4 experiments, participants studied English-English and 
Swahili-English paired associates across 4 study-test trials. On each trial, 
they were tested on only 1 type of item (e.g., only Swahili-English pairs), and, 
hence, only 1 type of item was valuable for performance. Some participants were 
cued to which information was valuable, and other participants had to learn from 
task experience. Experiment 2 examined the effect of performance incentives on 
study decisions, and Experiment 3 examined how the organization of the task 
environment influences learners' decisions. Finally, Experiment 4 examined the 
role of working memory span, fluid intelligence, and need for cognition on 
decisions. Findings indicated that some people can learn from task experience 
which items are important to study. However, many learners fail to do so (in 
particular, learners with low working memory spans); as a consequence, they 
dysregulate their study by allocating time to items that are not valuable to 
performance.

PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2013 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/a0033091
PMID: 23751010 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


750. Res Dev Disabil. 2013 Sep;34(9):2493-9. doi: 10.1016/j.ridd.2013.05.003. Epub 
2013 Jun 7.

Association between executive/attentional functions and caries in children with 
cerebral palsy.

Dourado MR(1), Andrade PM, Ramos-Jorge ML, Moreira RN, Oliveira-Ferreira F.

Author information:
(1)Departament of Dentistry, Federal University of Vales do Jequitinhonha e 
Mucuri - UFVJM, Diamantina, MG 39100-000, Brazil. mauricio_mrd@hotmail.com

The aim of the present study was to evaluate the existence of an association 
between attention/executive functions and the development of dental caries in 
individuals with cerebral palsy (CP). Seventy-six children with CP were selected 
from a physical rehabilitation center and a school serving children with 
disabilities. The control group was made up of 89 children without neurological 
impairment. Socioeconomic status, presence of teeth with cavities due to caries, 
degree of motor impairment and intellectual, executive and attentional functions 
were assessed. Mean age of participants was 8.9 years (SD=3.56). The CP group 
had a significantly lower performance (p<0.05, Mann-Whitney test) on the 
intelligence, attentional function and executive function tests in comparison to 
the control group. Controlling for the clinical diagnosis (CP or control group), 
motor impairment and intellectual function, the significant explanatory 
variables for the presence of teeth with cavities were performance on the 
Complex Rey figure test (OR=0.941) and the Digit Span subtest of the Wechsler 
Intelligence Scale for Children in backward order (OR=0.581). After controlling 
for intellectual function, clinical diagnosis and motor impairment, deficits in 
executive and attentional functions increased the odds of developing dental 
caries in children with cerebral palsy.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ridd.2013.05.003
PMID: 23751295 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


751. Res Dev Disabil. 2013 Sep;34(9):2642-60. doi: 10.1016/j.ridd.2013.05.010. Epub 
2013 Jun 7.

How could Theory of Mind contribute to the differentiation of social adjustment 
profiles of children with externalizing behavior disorders and children with 
intellectual disabilities?

Nader-Grosbois N(1), Houssa M, Mazzone S.

Author information:
(1)Université Catholique de Louvain, Institute of Psychological Sciences, 10 
Place Cardinal Mercier, 1348 Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium. 
Nathalie.Nader@uclouvain.be

This study compared Theory of Mind (ToM) emotion and belief abilities in 43 
children with externalized behavior (EB) disorders presenting low intelligence, 
40 children with intellectual disabilities (ID) and 33 typically developing (TD) 
preschoolers (as a control group), matched for developmental age. The links 
between their ToM abilities, their level in seven self-regulation strategies as 
displayed in social problem-solving tasks and their social adjustment profiles 
(assessed by the Social Competence and Behavior Evaluation, completed by their 
teachers) were examined. Children with EB presented lower comprehension of 
causes of emotions and lower self-regulation of joint attention and of attention 
than children with ID and TD children. In comparison with TD children, lower 
social adjustment was observed in nearly all dimensions of profiles in both 
atypical groups. Specifically, children with EB were significantly angrier than 
children with ID. Although variable patterns of positive correlations were 
obtained in atypical groups between self-regulation strategies and ToM 
abilities, the most numerous positive links were obtained in the group with EB. 
Regression analyses showed that developmental age predicted ToM abilities and 
certain dimensions of social adjustment profiles in atypical groups. In the ID 
group, ToM emotions predicted general adaptation, affective adaptation, 
interactions with peers and with adults and low internalizing problems. In the 
EB group, general adaptation was predicted by ToM emotions and self-regulation, 
interactions with peers by ToM beliefs, and a low level of externalizing 
problems by ToM emotions. Some implications for intervention and perspectives 
for research are suggested.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ridd.2013.05.010
PMID: 23751304 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


752. J Dev Behav Pediatr. 2013 Jun;34(5):314-25. doi: 10.1097/DBP.0b013e3182905587.

Maternal factors predicting cognitive and behavioral characteristics of children 
with fetal alcohol spectrum disorders.

May PA(1), Tabachnick BG, Gossage JP, Kalberg WO, Marais AS, Robinson LK, 
Manning MA, Blankenship J, Buckley D, Hoyme HE, Adnams CM.

Author information:
(1)Nutrition Research Institute, Gillings School of Global Public Health, The 
University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC 28081, USA. philip_may@unc.edu

OBJECTIVE: To provide an analysis of multiple predictors of cognitive and 
behavioral traits for children with fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASDs).
METHOD: Multivariate correlation techniques were used with maternal and child 
data from epidemiologic studies in a community in South Africa. Data on 561 
first-grade children with fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS), partial FAS (PFAS), and 
not FASD and their mothers were analyzed by grouping 19 maternal variables into 
categories (physical, demographic, childbearing, and drinking) and used in 
structural equation models (SEMs) to assess correlates of child intelligence 
(verbal and nonverbal) and behavior.
RESULTS: A first SEM using only 7 maternal alcohol use variables to predict 
cognitive/behavioral traits was statistically significant (B = 3.10, p < .05) 
but explained only 17.3% of the variance. The second model incorporated multiple 
maternal variables and was statistically significant explaining 55.3% of the 
variance. Significantly correlated with low intelligence and problem behavior 
were demographic (B = 3.83, p < .05) (low maternal education, low socioeconomic 
status [SES], and rural residence) and maternal physical characteristics (B = 
2.70, p < .05) (short stature, small head circumference, and low weight). 
Childbearing history and alcohol use composites were not statistically 
significant in the final complex model and were overpowered by SES and maternal 
physical traits.
CONCLUSIONS: Although other analytic techniques have amply demonstrated the 
negative effects of maternal drinking on intelligence and behavior, this highly 
controlled analysis of multiple maternal influences reveals that maternal 
demographics and physical traits make a significant enabling or disabling 
contribution to child functioning in FASD.

DOI: 10.1097/DBP.0b013e3182905587
PMCID: PMC3731773
PMID: 23751886 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interests to 
declare.


753. Biol Psychol. 2014 Jan;95:74-85. doi: 10.1016/j.biopsycho.2013.05.020. Epub 2013 
Jun 7.

Effect of beta and gamma neurofeedback on memory and intelligence in the 
elderly.

Staufenbiel SM(1), Brouwer AM(2), Keizer AW(3), van Wouwe NC(4).

Author information:
(1)Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, The Netherlands; TNO Behavioral and 
Societal Sciences, Soesterberg, The Netherlands. Electronic address: 
s.staufenbiel@erasmusmc.nl.
(2)TNO Behavioral and Societal Sciences, Soesterberg, The Netherlands.
(3)Neurofeedback Instituut Nederland, Eindhoven, The Netherlands.
(4)Vanderbilt Medical Center, Nashville, United States. Electronic address: 
nelleke.van.wouwe@vanderbilt.edu.

Recent research showed a correlation between cognitive decline and a decrease of 
EEG gamma activity. In the present double-blind randomized control study, we 
investigated whether gamma and beta neurofeedback protocols, that have been 
shown to modulate performance on cognitive control and memory in young adults, 
also leads to increased brain activity and cognitive performance in elderly. 
Twenty older adults either performed eight 30-min gamma neurofeedback session or 
beta neurofeedback session within a period of 21 days. Cognitive performance was 
determined before and after the training through an IQ and memory task and we 
added a subjective well-being questionnaire. Both neurofeedback training 
protocols resulted in a significant increase of the brain activity within each 
training session, suggesting that the aging brain is still trainable. However, 
we found no effects on cognitive performance or transfer of the feedback beyond 
the trainings. We discuss several possible reasons for the lack of training on 
rest measurements and cognition and ways to improve the feedback protocols for 
future studies.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopsycho.2013.05.020
PMID: 23751914 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


754. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2013 Jun 18;110 Suppl 2(Suppl 2):10371-8. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.1301195110. Epub 2013 Jun 10.

Evolution of working memory.

Carruthers P(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Philosophy, University of Maryland, College Park, MD 20742, 
USA. pcarruth@umd.edu

Working memory (WM) is fundamental to many aspects of human life, including 
learning, speech and text comprehension, prospection and future planning, and 
explicit "system 2" forms of reasoning, as well as overlapping heavily with 
fluid general intelligence. WM has been intensively studied for many decades, 
and there is a growing consensus about its nature, its components, and its 
signature limits. Remarkably, given its central importance in human life, there 
has been very little comparative investigation of WM abilities across species. 
Consequently, much remains unknown about the evolution of this important human 
capacity. Some questions can be tentatively answered from the existing 
comparative literature. Even studies that were not intended to do so can 
nonetheless shed light on the WM capacities of nonhuman animals. However, many 
questions remain.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1301195110
PMCID: PMC3690618
PMID: 23754428 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The author declares no conflict of interest.


755. Front Psychol. 2013 May 31;4:309. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2013.00309. eCollection 
2013.

Subthreshold Depressive Symptoms have a Negative Impact on Cognitive Functioning 
in Middle-Aged and Older Males.

Brevik EJ(1), Eikeland RA, Lundervold AJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological and Medical Psychology, University of Bergen , 
Bergen , Norway ; K.G. Jebsen Centre for Research on Neuropsychiatric Disorders 
, Bergen , Norway.

INTRODUCTION: Cognitive aging is associated with a decline on measures of fluid 
intelligence (gF), whereas crystallized intelligence (gC) tends to remain 
stable. In the present study we asked if depressive symptoms might contribute to 
explain the decline on gF in a sample of healthy middle-aged and older adults.
METHOD: The Norwegian sample included 83 females and 42 males (M = 60, 
SD = 7.9 years). gF was calculated from factor-analysis, including tests of 
matrix reasoning (WASI), memory function (CVLT-II), processing speed and 
executive function (CDT; CWIT). gC was derived from a Vocabulary subtest (WASI). 
Depressive symptoms were assessed by self-reports on Beck's Depression Index 
(BDI) and ranged from 0 to 21 (M = 6, SD = 4.5).
RESULTS: Increased age was correlated with a decline on gF (r = -0.436, p  
< 0.001), but not gC (r=-0.103, p = ns.). The BDI score in the whole sample was 
correlated with gF (r = -0.313, p < 0.001). A more detailed analysis showed that 
the BDI score correlated with measures of both gF and gC in males. The 
correlations were non-significant for females on all measures, with the 
exception of a measure of processing speed/executive function. A regression 
analysis including age and sex in the first step, showed that symptoms of 
depression significantly contributed to explain decline on gF, F(3, 
124) = 16.653, p < 0.001, R? = 0.292, ΔR? = 0.054.
DISCUSSION: The results showed that symptoms of depression were negatively 
correlated with cognitive functioning in males even when the symptom-level was 
below clinical threshold. This indicates that minimal symptoms of depression in 
older men are clinically relevant to address.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2013.00309
PMCID: PMC3668270
PMID: 23755036


756. Schizophr Res. 2013 Aug;148(1-3):12-7. doi: 10.1016/j.schres.2013.05.008. Epub 
2013 Jun 4.

Adapting and evaluating a social cognitive remediation program for schizophrenia 
in Arabic.

Gohar SM(1), Hamdi E, El Ray LA, Horan WP, Green MF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Faculty of Medicine, Cairo University, Egypt. 
sherio_gohar@hotmail.com

Although growing evidence supports the efficacy of social cognitive training 
interventions for schizophrenia, nearly all studies to date have been conducted 
in Westernized countries. In the current study, we translated and adapted an 
existing social cognitive skills training (SCST) program into Arabic and 
conducted a preliminary efficacy evaluation in schizophrenia outpatients in 
Egypt. Twenty-two patients were randomized to 16 sessions of group-based SCST 
and 20 were randomized to a format- and time-matched illness management training 
control condition. Pre- and post-intervention assessments included a primary 
social cognition outcome measure that assessed four branches of emotional 
intelligence and a battery of neurocognitive tests. The SCST group demonstrated 
significant treatment effects on total emotional intelligence scores (F=24.31, 
p<.001), as well as the sub-areas of Identifying Emotions (F=11.77, p<.001) and 
Managing Emotions (F=23.27, p<.001), compared with those in the control 
condition. There were no treatment benefits for neurocognition for either 
condition, and both interventions were well-tolerated by patients. These initial 
results demonstrate the feasibility of implementing social cognitive 
interventions in different cultural settings with relatively minor 
modifications. The findings are encouraging regarding further efforts to 
maximize the benefits of social cognitive interventions internationally.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.schres.2013.05.008
PMID: 23756297 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


757. Neurosurgery. 2013 Oct;73(4):592-8; discussion 598-9. doi: 
10.1227/NEU.0000000000000013.

Postoperative increase in cerebral white matter fractional anisotropy on 
diffusion tensor magnetic resonance imaging is associated with cognitive 
improvement after uncomplicated carotid endarterectomy: tract-based spatial 
statistics analysis.

Sato Y(1), Ito K, Ogasawara K, Sasaki M, Kudo K, Murakami T, Nanba T, Nishimoto 
H, Yoshida K, Kobayashi M, Kubo Y, Mase T, Ogawa A.

Author information:
(1)*Department of Neurosurgery, Iwate Medical University School of Medicine, 
Morioka, Japan; ‡Division of Ultra-High Field MRI and Department of Radiology, 
Iwate Medical University School of Medicine, Morioka, Japan; §Department of 
Disaster Medicine, Iwate Medical University School of Medicine, Morioka, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Carotid endarterectomy (CEA) might improve cognitive function. 
Fractional anisotropy (FA) values in the cerebral white matter derived from 
diffusion tensor magnetic resonance imaging (DTI) correlate with cognitive 
function in patients with various central nervous system diseases.
OBJECTIVE: To use tract-based spatial statistics to determine whether 
postoperative changes of FA values in the cerebral white matter derived from DTI 
are associated with cognitive improvement after uncomplicated CEA.
METHODS: In 80 patients undergoing CEA for ipsilateral internal carotid artery 
stenosis (≥70%), FA values in the cerebral white matter were derived from DTI 
before and 1 month after surgery and were analyzed by using tract-based spatial 
statistics. Neuropsychological testing, consisting of the Wechsler Adult 
Intelligence Scale Revised, the Wechsler Memory Scale and the Rey-Osterreith 
Complex Figure test, was also performed preoperatively and after the first 
postoperative month.
RESULTS: Based on the neuropsychological assessments, 11 (14%) patients were 
defined as having postoperatively improved cognition. The difference between the 
2 mean FA values (postoperative values minus preoperative values) in the 
cerebral hemisphere ipsilateral to surgery was significantly associated with 
postoperative cognitive improvement (95% confidence intervals, 2.632-9.877; P = 
.008). White matter FA values in patients with postoperative cognitive 
improvement were significantly increased after surgery in the whole ipsilateral 
cerebral hemisphere, in the contralateral anterior cerebral artery territory, 
and in the watershed zone between the contralateral anterior and middle cerebral 
arteries.
CONCLUSION: Postoperative increase in cerebral white matter FA on DTI is 
associated with cognitive improvement after uncomplicated CEA.

DOI: 10.1227/NEU.0000000000000013
PMID: 23756737 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


758. Pediatrics. 2013 Jun;131 Suppl 4(Suppl 4):S219-23. doi: 10.1542/peds.2012-3786J.

Collaborative Chronic Care Networks (C3Ns) to transform chronic illness care.

Margolis PA(1), Peterson LE, Seid M.

Author information:
(1)James M. Anderson Center for Health Systems Excellence, Cincinnati Children's 
Hospital Medical Center, 3333 Burnet Ave, Cincinnati, OH 45229, USA. 
peter.margolis@cchmc.org

Despite significant gains by pediatric collaborative improvement networks, the 
overall US system of chronic illness care does not work well. A new paradigm is 
needed: a Collaborative Chronic Care Network (C3N). A C3N is a network-based 
production system that harnesses the collective intelligence of patients, 
clinicians, and researchers and distributes the production of knowledge, 
information, and know-how over large groups of people, dramatically accelerating 
the discovery process. A C3N is a platform of "operating systems" on which 
interconnected processes and interventions are designed, tested, and 
implemented. The social operating system is facilitated by community building, 
engaging all stakeholders and their expertise, and providing multiple ways to 
participate. Standard progress measures and a robust information technology 
infrastructure enable the technical operating system to reduce unwanted 
variation and adopt advances more rapidly. A structured approach to innovation 
design provides a scientific operating system or "laboratory" for what works and 
how to make it work. Data support testing and research on multiple levels: 
comparative effectiveness research for populations, evaluating care delivery 
processes at the care center level, and N-of-1 trials and other methods to 
select the best treatment of individual patient circumstances. Methods to reduce 
transactional costs to participate include a Federated IRB Model in which 
centers rely on a protocol approved at 1 central institutional review board and 
a "commons framework" for organizational copyright and intellectual property 
concerns. A fully realized C3N represents a discontinuous leap to a 
self-developing learning health system capable of producing a qualitatively 
different approach to improving health.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.2012-3786J
PMCID: PMC4075135
PMID: 23729764 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


759. Dev Med Child Neurol. 2013 Oct;55(10):934-40. doi: 10.1111/dmcn.12187. Epub 2013 
Jun 13.

Cognitive outcome in childhood after unilateral perinatal brain injury.

van Buuren LM(1), van der Aa NE, Dekker HC, Vermeulen RJ, van Nieuwenhuizen O, 
van Schooneveld MM, de Vries LS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatric Neuropsychology, Wilhelmina Children's Hospital, 
Utrecht, The Netherlands.

Comment in
    Dev Med Child Neurol. 2013 Oct;55(10):881-2.

AIM: The aim of the study was to assess cognitive outcome in children with 
periventricular haemorrhagic infarction (PVHI) or perinatal arterial ischaemic 
stroke (PAIS) and relate these findings to early developmental outcome and 
neonatal magnetic resonance imaging findings.
METHOD: A neuropsychological assessment was performed in 50 children (26 males, 
24 females) with unilateral PVHI (n=21) or PAIS (n=29) at a median age of 11 
years 9 months (range 6-20y). This included tests for intelligence, verbal 
memory, visual-motor integration, word comprehension, attention, reaction times, 
and executive function. The Griffiths Mental Development Scale was used for 
early developmental assessment at 24 months (range 18-32mo).
RESULTS: In children with PVHI, both the early Griffiths scores (mean 87; 95% CI 
83-92) and the Full-scale IQ (FSIQ) scores at school age (mean 86; 95% CI 78-94) 
were below the test mean of 100. In the PAIS group, early Griffiths scores were 
within the normal range (mean 98; 95% CI 93-104), but at school age FSIQ scores 
were below average (mean 87; 95% CI 80-94). In children with PVHI, FSIQ scores 
correlated with the level of maternal education and were lower after ventricular 
dilatation, whereas both involvement of the basal ganglia and thalami and 
development of postneonatal epilepsy were associated with lower cognitive 
outcome in children who had experienced PAIS.
INTERPRETATION: Cognitive outcome after PVHI or PAIS is below average, but still 
within 1SD for most children. Prediction of cognitive outcome remains 
challenging, but some early predictors can be recognized.

© 2013 Mac Keith Press.

DOI: 10.1111/dmcn.12187
PMID: 23758403 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


760. Front Neurosci. 2013 Jun 3;7:68. doi: 10.3389/fnins.2013.00068. eCollection 
2013.

Do general intellectual functioning and socioeconomic status account for 
performance on the Children's Gambling Task?

Mata F(1), Sallum I, Miranda DM, Bechara A, Malloy-Diniz LF.

Author information:
(1)Laboratório de Investigações Neuropsicológicas, Faculdade de Medicina, 
Instituto Nacional de Ciência e Tecnologia de Medicina Molecular, Universidade 
Federal de Minas Gerais Belo Horizonte, Brazil.

Studies that use the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT) and its age-appropriate versions 
as indices of affective decision-making during childhood and adolescence have 
demonstrated significant individual differences in scores. Our study 
investigated the association between general intellectual functioning and 
socioeconomic status (SES) and its effect on the development of affective 
decision-making in preschoolers by using a computerized version of the 
Children's Gambling Task (CGT). We administered the CGT and the Columbia Mental 
Maturity Scale (CMMS) to 137 Brazilian children between the ages of 3 and 5 
years old to assess their general intellectual functioning. We also used the 
Brazilian Criterion of Economic Classification (CCEB) to assess their SES. Age 
differences between 3- and 4-years-old, but not between 4- and 5-years-old, 
confirmed the results obtained by Kerr and Zelazo (2004), indicating the rapid 
development of affective decision-making during the preschool period. Both 4- 
and 5-years-old performed significantly above chance on blocks 3, 4, and 5 of 
the CGT, whereas 3-years-old mean scores did not differ from chance. We found 
that general intellectual functioning was not related to affective 
decision-making. On the other hand, our findings showed that children with high 
SES performed better on the last block of the CGT in comparison to children with 
low SES, which indicates that children from the former group seem more likely to 
use the information about the gain/loss aspects of the decks to efficiently 
choose cards from the advantageous deck throughout the task.

DOI: 10.3389/fnins.2013.00068
PMCID: PMC3669750
PMID: 23760222


761. Behav Genet. 2013 Jul;43(4):274-85. doi: 10.1007/s10519-013-9600-3. Epub 2013 
Jun 13.

Genetic and environmental variation in lung function drives subsequent variation 
in aging of fluid intelligence.

Finkel D(1), Reynolds CA, Emery CF, Pedersen NL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Indiana University Southeast, New Albany, IN, USA. 
dfinkel@ius.edu

Longitudinal studies document an association of pulmonary function with 
cognitive function in middle-aged and older adults. Previous analyses have 
identified a genetic contribution to the relationship between pulmonary function 
with fluid intelligence. The goal of the current analysis was to apply the 
biometric dual change score model to consider the possibility of temporal 
dynamics underlying the genetic covariance between aging trajectories for 
pulmonary function and fluid intelligence. Longitudinal data from the Swedish 
Adoption/Twin Study of Aging were available from 808 twins ranging in age from 
50 to 88 years at the first wave. Participants completed up to six assessments 
covering a 19-year period. Measures at each assessment included spatial and 
speed factors and pulmonary function. Model-fitting indicated that genetic 
variance for FEV1 was a leading indicator of variation in age changes for 
spatial and speed factors. Thus, these data indicate a genetic component to the 
directional relationship from decreased pulmonary function to decreased function 
of fluid intelligence.

DOI: 10.1007/s10519-013-9600-3
PMCID: PMC3753107
PMID: 23760789 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


762. Front Hum Neurosci. 2013 Jun 6;7:245. doi: 10.3389/fnhum.2013.00245. eCollection 
2013.

Brains, innovations, tools and cultural transmission in birds, non-human 
primates, and fossil hominins.

Lefebvre L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, McGill University Montréal, QC, Canada.

Recent work on birds and non-human primates has shown that taxonomic differences 
in field measures of innovation, tool use and social learning are associated 
with size of the mammalian cortex and avian mesopallium and nidopallium, as well 
as ecological traits like colonization success. Here, I review this literature 
and suggest that many of its findings are relevant to hominin intelligence. In 
particular, our large brains and increased intelligence may be partly 
independent of our ape phylogeny and the result of convergent processes similar 
to those that have molded avian and platyrrhine intelligence. Tool use, 
innovativeness and cultural transmission might be linked over our past and in 
our brains as operations of domain-general intelligence. Finally, colonization 
of new areas may have accompanied increases in both brain size and 
innovativeness in hominins as they have in other mammals and in birds, 
potentially accelerating hominin evolution via behavioral drive.

DOI: 10.3389/fnhum.2013.00245
PMCID: PMC3674321
PMID: 23761751


763. PLoS One. 2013 Jun 10;8(6):e65391. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0065391. Print 
2013.

The role of intelligence in posttraumatic stress disorder: does it vary by 
trauma severity?

Breslau N(1), Chen Q, Luo Z.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, College of Human Medicine, 
Michigan State University, East Lansing, Michigan, United States of America. 
breslau@msu.edu

BACKGROUND: Only a small minority of trauma victims develops post-traumatic 
stress disorder (PTSD), suggesting that victims vary in their predispositions to 
the PTSD response to stressors. It is assumed that the role of predispositions 
in PTSD varies by trauma severity: when stressors are less severe, 
predispositions play a bigger role. In this study, we test whether the role of 
intelligence in PTSD varies by trauma severity. Specifically, does low 
intelligence plays a bigger part among victims of lower magnitude stressors than 
among victims of extreme stressors?
METHODS: Data come from a longitudinal study of randomly selected sample in 
Southeast Michigan (n = 713). IQ was measured at age 6. PTSD was measured at age 
17, using the NIMH-DIS for DSM-IV. Stressors were classified as extreme if they 
involved assaultive violence (e.g. rape, sexual assault, threatened with a 
weapon); other stressors in the list (e.g. disaster, accidents) were classified 
as lower magnitude. Assaultive violence victims had experienced assaultive 
violence plus other event types or only assaultive violence. Victims of other 
stressors were participants who had never experienced assaultive violence. We 
compared the influence of age 6 IQ on PTSD among persons exposed to assaultive 
violence vs. other stressors, using multinomial logistic regression.
RESULTS: Relative risk ratio (RRR) for PTSD associated with a one point drop in 
age 6 IQ among victims of assaultive violence was 1.04 (95% CI 1.01, 1.06); 
among victims of other stressors, it was 1.03 (95% CI 0.99, 1.06). A comparison 
of the two RRRs indicates no significant difference between the two estimates 
(p = 0.652). IQ does not play a bigger role in PTSD among victims of other 
stressors than it does among victims of assaultive violence.
CONCLUSIONS: Lower IQ exerts an adverse PTSD effect on trauma victims, with no 
evidence of variability by the severity of trauma they have experienced.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0065391
PMCID: PMC3677906
PMID: 23762357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


764. Pediatr Int. 2013 Oct;55(5):594-8. doi: 10.1111/ped.12156. Epub 2013 Aug 21.

Cognitive outcome of very-low-birthweight infants at 6 years of age.

Takayanagi T(1), Egashira M, Yamaguchi T, Murata N, Yokota G, Matsuo K, Ogata T, 
Egashira T, Iwanaga M, Mizukami T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, National Hospital Organization, Saga National 
Hospital, Saga, Japan.

BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to determine the characteristics of the 
cognitive function in very-low-birth-weight infants (VLBWI) at 6 years of age 
and investigate significant factors during neonatal intensive care unit 
admission that affect cognitive outcomes.
METHODS: One hundred and eighty-nine VLBWI (28.4 weeks, 1024 g), including 93 
extremely low-birthweight (EL) infants whose birthweight was <1000 g (26.8 
weeks, 759 g) and 96 very low-birthweight (VL) infants whose birthweight was 
1000-1499 g (30.0 weeks, 1281 g), were enrolled. The cognitive function was 
measured using the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children version 3, three IQ 
tests, four factor indices and 13 subtest scores. Regression analyses were 
performed to analyze the cognitive indices and clinical variables during 
neonatal intensive care unit admission.
RESULTS: The full-scale IQ (FIQ) in the EL infants was 85.3 ± 13.4, which was 
significantly lower than the 91.8 ± 9.7 observed in the VL infants. The verbal 
IQ and performance IQ in the EL infants were also lower than those observed in 
the VL infants. The rate of difference between verbal IQ and performance IQ >14 
was 20% in the EL infants and 22% in the VL infants. A multiple linear 
regression analysis revealed a significant relation between FIQ and HC (P = 
0.002) and FIQ and dexamethasone (P = 0.012).
CONCLUSION: In comparison with that observed in the VL infants, the intelligence 
quotient of the EL infants was inferior and exhibited more inter-individual 
variation. Intra-individual imbalances of the cognitive function were highly 
observed irrespective of the EL or VL status. Restriction of intrauterine brain 
growth and greater doses of dexamethasone may be harmful for subsequent 
cognitive outcomes.

© 2013 The Authors. Pediatrics International © 2013 Japan Pediatric Society.

DOI: 10.1111/ped.12156
PMID: 23763442 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


765. J Adv Nurs. 2014 Jan;70(1):176-86. doi: 10.1111/jan.12185. Epub 2013 Jun 14.

Emotional rescue: the role of emotional intelligence and emotional labour on 
well-being and job-stress among community nurses.

Karimi L(1), Leggat SG(2), Donohue L(3), Farrell G(4), Couper GE(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Health Services Management, School of Public Health and Human Biosciences, La 
Trobe University, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(2)School of Public Health and Human Biosciences, La Trobe University, Bundoora, 
Victoria, Australia.
(3)School of Nursing and Midwifery, Monash University, Melbourne, Victoria, 
Australia.
(4)School of Nursing and Midwifery, La Trobe University, Bundoora, Victoria, 
Australia.
(5)School of Psychology, Northcentral University, USA.
(6)Department of Biobehavioral Sciences, University of California (UCLA), 
California, USA.

AIMS: To investigate the extent to which emotional labour and emotional 
intelligence are associated with well-being and job-stress among a group of 
Australian community nurses. The moderating role of emotional intelligence was 
evaluated as a key factor in the rescue of healthcare workers from job-stress, 
thus increasing job retention.
BACKGROUND: Although emotional labour has been broadly investigated in the 
literature, the contribution of emotional labour and emotional intelligence to 
the well-being and experience of job-stress in a community nursing setting 
requires further exploration.
DESIGN: This study used a cross-sectional quantitative research design with data 
collected from Australian community nurses.
METHODS: Australian community nurses (n = 312) reported on their perceived 
emotional labour, emotional intelligence and their levels of well-being and 
job-stress using a paper and pencil survey in 2010.
RESULTS/FINDINGS: Results from structural equation modelling support the 
hypothesis that both emotional labour and emotional intelligence have 
significant effects on nurses' well-being and perceived job-stress. Emotional 
intelligence plays a moderating role in the experience of job-stress.
CONCLUSION: These findings provide additional evidence for the important effects 
that emotional labour and emotional intelligence can have on well-being and 
job-stress among community nurses. The potential benefits of emotional 
intelligence in the nurses' emotional work have been explored.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jan.12185
PMID: 23763612 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


766. Ecotoxicol Environ Saf. 2013 Sep;95:221-33. doi: 10.1016/j.ecoenv.2013.05.017. 
Epub 2013 Jun 12.

Predicting acute aquatic toxicity of structurally diverse chemicals in fish 
using artificial intelligence approaches.

Singh KP(1), Gupta S, Rai P.

Author information:
(1)Academy of Scientific and Innovative Research, CSIR-Indian Institute of 
Toxicology Research (Council of Scientific & Industrial Research), Lucknow, 
Uttar Pradesh, India. kpsingh_52@yahoo.com

The research aims to develop global modeling tools capable of categorizing 
structurally diverse chemicals in various toxicity classes according to the EEC 
and European Community directives, and to predict their acute toxicity in 
fathead minnow using set of selected molecular descriptors. Accordingly, 
artificial intelligence approach based classification and regression models, 
such as probabilistic neural networks (PNN), generalized regression neural 
networks (GRNN), multilayer perceptron neural network (MLPN), radial basis 
function neural network (RBFN), support vector machines (SVM), gene expression 
programming (GEP), and decision tree (DT) were constructed using the 
experimental toxicity data. Diversity and non-linearity in the chemicals' data 
were tested using the Tanimoto similarity index and Brock-Dechert-Scheinkman 
statistics. Predictive and generalization abilities of various models 
constructed here were compared using several statistical parameters. PNN and 
GRNN models performed relatively better than MLPN, RBFN, SVM, GEP, and DT. Both 
in two and four category classifications, PNN yielded a considerably high 
accuracy of classification in training (95.85 percent and 90.07 percent) and 
validation data (91.30 percent and 86.96 percent), respectively. GRNN rendered a 
high correlation between the measured and model predicted -log LC50 values both 
for the training (0.929) and validation (0.910) data and low prediction errors 
(RMSE) of 0.52 and 0.49 for two sets. Efficiency of the selected PNN and GRNN 
models in predicting acute toxicity of new chemicals was adequately validated 
using external datasets of different fish species (fathead minnow, bluegill, 
trout, and guppy). The PNN and GRNN models showed good predictive and 
generalization abilities and can be used as tools for predicting toxicities of 
structurally diverse chemical compounds.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ecoenv.2013.05.017
PMID: 23764236 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


767. ScientificWorldJournal. 2013 May 20;2013:158263. doi: 10.1155/2013/158263. Print 
2013.

Autism, processing speed, and adaptive functioning in preschool children.

Hedvall Å(1), Fernell E, Holm A, Åsberg Johnels J, Gillberg C, Billstedt E.

Author information:
(1)Gillberg Neuropsychiatry Centre, Sahlgrenska Academy, University of 
Gothenburg, Kungsgatan 12, 41119 Gothenburg, Sweden. 
asa.lundholm-hedvall@karolinska.se

OBJECTIVES: To study cognitive test profiles with a focus on processing speed in 
a representative group of preschool children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) 
and relate processing speed to adaptive functioning.
METHODS: Cognitive assessments were performed in 190 3.6-6.6-year-old children 
(164 boys and 26 girls) with ASD, using either Griffiths' developmental scales 
(n = 77) or the Wechsler Preschool and Primary Scale of Intelligence-Third 
Edition (WPPSI-III) (n = 113). Cognitive data were related to adaptive 
functioning as measured by Vineland Adaptive Behavior Scales (VABS).
RESULTS: Cognitive profiles were characterized by low verbal skills. Low 
processing speed quotients (PSQs) were found in 66 (78%) of the 85 children who 
were able to participate in the processing speed subtests. Except for 
Socialization, all VABS domains (Communication, Motor Skills, Daily Living 
Skills, and Adaptive Behavior Composite scores) correlated significantly with 
PSQ. Multiple regression analysis showed that PSQ predicted 38%, 35%, 34%, and 
37% of the variance for Communication, Daily Living Skills, Motor Skills, and 
total Adaptive Composite scores, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Preschool children with ASD had uneven cognitive profiles with low 
verbal skills, and, relatively, even lower PSQs. Except for Socialization, 
adaptive functioning was predicted to a considerable degree by PSQ.

DOI: 10.1155/2013/158263
PMCID: PMC3673455
PMID: 23766675 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


768. Bol Asoc Med P R. 2013;105(1):24-31.

EIWA-III measures of cognitive function in young Puerto Rico patients with 
epilepsy.

Narváez Pérez K(1), Fernández Crespo L, Teresa Miranda M, Boulón Diaz F.

Author information:
(1)Inter-American University, Metropolitan Campus, San Juan, Puerto Rico. 
knarvaezphd@gmail.com

Evaluation and measurement of intelligence contributes significantly to the 
scientific endeavor of psychology as a science. This study was exploratory and 
descriptive, with twenty young patients with epilepsy from Puerto Rico of ages 
between 16-20 years. Compared the execution of a matched group of the normative 
sample and the group of adults 21 to 64 years with epilepsy belonging to the 
standardization sample in Puerto Rico. The data was analyzed using descriptive 
and inferential statistical calculations. Survey results reflect significant 
differences in the scores of the subtests that make up the intelligence scale 
EIWA-III. In all measures, the group of participants with epilepsy rate was 
lower than the reference group. The comparison of scores on the subtests that 
measure executive functions was analyzed by the working memory index (WMI). 
Based on the data obtained, the performance in executive functions EIWA-III is 
significantly lower in participants with epilepsy compared to the reference 
groups. Analysis of variance/ANOVA showed no significant differences between IQ 
scale for implementation (F = 8.77) with a probability of 0.001, CI scale (F = 
4.35) was 0.01 and verbal scale IQ (F = 2.67) was 0.05 for the group of young 
patients from 16 to 20 years with epilepsy, their IQ score compared with the 
normative group on the subscales that comprise the Verbal Scale, Performance and 
Total rates of IQ trial EIWA-III. In light of these results, the statistically 
significant differences for each subscale: Verbal IQ, Performance, Total and 
indexes EIWA-III, suggest that the level of intelligence of sample group, 16 to 
20 years old with epilepsy, was below average in comparison with the normative 
group. The results are consistent with the literature on cognitive 
neuropsychology and performance of subjects with epileptic diseases.

PMID: 23767381 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


769. J Clin Exp Neuropsychol. 2013;35(6):642-54. doi: 10.1080/13803395.2013.806650. 
Epub 2013 Jun 14.

Age-related change in Wechsler IQ norms after adjustment for the Flynn effect: 
estimates from three computational models.

Agbayani KA(1), Hiscock M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Houston, Houston, TX 77204-5022, USA.

A previous study found that the Flynn effect accounts for 85% of the normative 
difference between 20- and 70-year-olds on subtests of the Wechsler intelligence 
tests. Adjusting scores for the Flynn effect substantially reduces normative 
age-group differences, but the appropriate amount of adjustment is uncertain. 
The present study replicates previous findings and employs two other methods of 
adjusting for the Flynn effect. Averaged across models, results indicate that 
the Flynn effect accounts for 76% of normative age-group differences on Wechsler 
IQ subtests. Flynn-effect adjustment reduces the normative age-related decline 
in IQ from 4.3 to 1.1 IQ points per decade.

DOI: 10.1080/13803395.2013.806650
PMID: 23767697 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


770. J Cogn Neurosci. 2013 Oct;25(10):1611-23. doi: 10.1162/jocn_a_00434. Epub 2013 
Jun 14.

Longitudinal working memory development is related to structural maturation of 
frontal and parietal cortices.

Tamnes CK(1), Walhovd KB, Grydeland H, Holland D, Østby Y, Dale AM, Fjell AM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway. 
c.k.tamnes@psykologi.uio.no

Parallels between patterns of brain maturation and cognitive development have 
been observed repeatedly, but studies directly testing the relationships between 
improvements in specific cognitive functions and structural changes in the brain 
are lacking. Working memory development extends throughout childhood and 
adolescence and likely plays a central role for cognitive development in 
multiple domains and in several neurodevelopmental disorders. Neuroimaging, 
lesion, and electrophysiological studies indicate that working memory emerges 
from coordinated interactions of a distributed neural network in which 
fronto-parietal cortical regions are critical. In the current study, verbal 
working memory function, as indexed by performance on the Keep Track task, and 
volumes of brain regions were assessed at two time points in 79 healthy children 
and adolescents in the age range of 8-22 years. Longitudinal change in cortical 
and subcortical volumes was quantified by the use of Quantitative Anatomical 
Regional Change. Improvement in working memory was related to cortical volume 
reduction in bilateral prefrontal and posterior parietal regions and in regions 
around the central sulci. Importantly, these relationships were not explained by 
differences in gender, age, or intelligence level or change in intellectual 
abilities. Furthermore, the relationships did not interact with age and were not 
significantly different in children, young adolescents, and old adolescents. The 
results provide the first direct evidence that structural maturation of a 
fronto-parietal cortical network supports working memory development.

DOI: 10.1162/jocn_a_00434
PMID: 23767921 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


771. J Cogn Neurosci. 2013 Sep;25(9):1542-52. doi: 10.1162/jocn_a_00432. Epub 2013 
Jun 14.

Global increase in task-related fronto-parietal activity after focal frontal 
lobe lesion.

Woolgar A(1), Bor D, Duncan J.

Author information:
(1)ARC Centre of Excellence in Cognition and its Disorders, Department of 
Cognitive Science, Macquarie University, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia 
2109. alexandra.woolgar@mq.edu.au

A critical question for neuropsychology is how complex brain networks react to 
damage. Here, we address this question for the well-known executive control or 
multiple-demand (MD) system, a fronto-parietal network showing increased 
activity with many different kinds of cognitive demand, including standard tests 
of fluid intelligence. Using fMRI, we ask how focal frontal lobe damage affects 
MD activity during a standard fluid intelligence task. Despite poor behavioral 
performance, frontal patients showed increased fronto-parietal activity relative 
to controls. The activation difference was not accounted for by difference in 
IQ. Moreover, rather than specific focus on perilesional or contralesional 
cortex, additional recruitment was distributed throughout the MD regions and 
surrounding cortex and included parietal MD regions distant from the injury. The 
data suggest that, following local frontal lobe damage, there is a global 
compensatory recruitment of an adaptive and integrated fronto-parietal network.

DOI: 10.1162/jocn_a_00432
PMID: 23767925 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


772. CNS Spectr. 2014 Aug;19(4):316-23. doi: 10.1017/S1092852913000394. Epub 2013 Jun 
17.

Add-on clinical effects of selective antagonist of 5HT6 receptors AVN-211 
(CD-008-0173) in patients with schizophrenia stabilized on antipsychotic 
treatment: pilot study.

Morozova MA(1), Lepilkina TA(1), Rupchev GE(1), Beniashvily AG(1), Burminskiy 
DS(1), Potanin SS(1), Bondarenko EV(2), Kazey VI(2), Lavrovsky Y(3), 
Ivachtchenko AV(3).

Author information:
(1)1Laboratory of Psychopharmacology,National Center of Mental Health,Russian 
Academy of Medical Science,Moscow,Russia.
(2)2Avineuro LLC,Moscow,Russia.
(3)3Avineuro Pharmaceuticals Inc.,San Diego,California,USA.

The serotoninergic system as a target for add-on treatment seems to be a 
promising approach in patients with schizophrenia.
OBJECTIVE: To clarify if selective 5HT-6 antagonist AVN-211 (CD-008-0173) adds 
clinical and cognitive effects to stable antipsychotic treatment.
METHODS: A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, add-on, 4r-week trial 
in 47 schizophrenia patients (21 patients receiving study drug and 26 receiving 
placebo) who were stabilized on antipsychotic medication was performed. 
Seventeen patients from the study drug group and 25 patients from the placebo 
group completed the trial. Treatment effects were measured using clinical rating 
scales and attention tests.
RESULTS: With no differences at baseline, there was a significant difference 
between the groups in Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) positive 
subscale score (p = 0.058) in favor of patients in the treatment group at the 
endpoint. The PANSS positive subscore (p = 0.0068) and Clinical Global 
Impression-Severity (CGI-S) (p = 0.048) score significantly changed only in the 
treatment group. Only in the placebo group were significant changes in Calgary 
Depression Rating Scale (CDRS) total score registered. The indices of attention 
tests at endpoint did not show differences between the groups, with the 
exception of the scope of change in the results of the subtest VIII of the 
Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale (WAIS), which showed difference between the 
groups (p = 0.02) and was significantly larger in the treatment group. Only 
inside the study drug group, significant changes in selectivity and continuous 
attention were observed regarding total correct responses (p = 0.0038) and 
reaction time (p = 0.058) in the Continuous Attention Task (CAT) test.
CONCLUSION: Selective 5HT6 antagonist AVN-211 (CD-008-0173) added antipsychotic 
and some procognitive (attention) effects to antipsychotic medication.

DOI: 10.1017/S1092852913000394
PMID: 23768250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


773. Artif Intell Med. 2013 Jul;58(3):165-73. doi: 10.1016/j.artmed.2013.04.005. Epub 
2013 Jun 12.

Computational intelligence for the Balanced Scorecard: studying performance 
trends of hemodialysis clinics.

Cattinelli I(1), Bolzoni E, Chermisi M, Bellocchio F, Barbieri C, Mari F, Amato 
C, Menzer M, Stopper A, Gatti E.

Author information:
(1)Healthcare and Business Advanced Modeling, Fresenius Medical Care, 
Else-Kröner-Strasse 1, 61352 Bad Homburg, Germany. 
isabella.cattinelli@fmc-ag.com

OBJECTIVES: The Balanced Scorecard (BSC) is a general, widely employed 
instrument for enterprise performance monitoring based on the periodic 
assessment of strategic Key Performance Indicators that are scored against 
preset targets. The BSC is currently employed as an effective management support 
tool within Fresenius Medical Care (FME) and is routinely analyzed via standard 
statistical methods. More recently, the application of computational 
intelligence techniques (namely, self-organizing maps) to BSC data has been 
proposed as a way to enhance the quantity and quality of information that can be 
extracted from it. In this work, additional methods are presented to analyze the 
evolution of clinic performance over time.
METHODS: Performance evolution is studied at the single-clinic level by 
computing two complementary indexes that measure the proportion of time spent 
within performance clusters and improving/worsening trends. Self-organizing maps 
are used in conjunction with these indexes to identify the specific drivers of 
the observed performance. The performance evolution for groups of clinics is 
modeled under a probabilistic framework by resorting to Markov chain properties. 
These allow a study of the probability of transitioning between performance 
clusters as time progresses for the identification of the performance level that 
is expected to become dominant over time.
RESULTS: We show the potential of the proposed methods through illustrative 
results derived from the analysis of BSC data of 109 FME clinics in three 
countries. We were able to identify the performance drivers for specific groups 
of clinics and to distinguish between countries whose performances are likely to 
improve from those where a decline in performance might be expected. According 
to the stationary distribution of the Markov chain, the expected trend is best 
in Turkey (where the highest performance cluster has the highest probability, 
P=0.46), followed by Portugal (where the second best performance cluster 
dominates, with P=0.50), and finally Italy (where the second best performance 
cluster has P=0.34).
CONCLUSION: These results highlight the ability of the proposed methods to 
extract insights about performance trends that cannot be easily extrapolated 
using standard analyses and that are valuable in directing management strategies 
within a continuous quality improvement policy.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.artmed.2013.04.005
PMID: 23768423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


774. J Pediatr. 2013 Oct;163(4):1105-10.e1. doi: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2013.04.065. Epub 
2013 Jun 14.

Use of early remedial services in children with transposition of the great 
arteries.

Calderon J(1), Bonnet D, Pinabiaux C, Jambaqué I, Angeard N.

Author information:
(1)Inserm U663, Paris, France; University Paris Descartes, Sorbonne Paris Cité, 
Assistance Publique Hôpitaux de Paris, Necker Hospital, Paris, France.

OBJECTIVES: To characterize the prevalence of use of early remedial services and 
its associated demographic, medical, and cognitive factors in children aged 4-6 
years with corrected transposition of the great arteries (TGA).
STUDY DESIGN: This was a prospective study of neurocognitive outcomes after TGA. 
Children underwent formal neuropsychological testing including general 
intelligence and a comprehensive battery of executive functions (EF) including 
motor and interference control, short-term memory, and working memory as well as 
cognitive flexibility. Parental reports on the children's behavior and EF were 
also evaluated. Demographic factors and preoperative, intraoperative, and 
postoperative factors as well as cognitive factors were examined according to 
the current use of remediation.
RESULTS: Forty-five patients (67% male) and their parents participated in this 
study. Twenty-four (53%) patients were receiving remedial services. Male sex, a 
postnatal diagnosis of TGA, and a longer postoperative intensive care unit stay 
were significantly associated with use of remediation. Children receiving 
remediation had lower EF scores, had more severe EF deficits as observed by 
formal testing, and were rated as having more behavioral daily life 
difficulties. However, in the group without remediation, 13 children (43%) also 
displayed EF deficits rated as moderate to severe.
CONCLUSIONS: Demographic and medical factors could help identify children at 
higher risk for neurocognitive delays. Evaluation of executive functioning from 
an early age may influence referral for remediation.

Copyright © 2013 Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2013.04.065
PMID: 23768817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


775. Transplant Proc. 2013 Jun;45(5):1981-2. doi: 10.1016/j.transproceed.2013.02.104.

Supporting liver transplantation by clinical pathway intelligence.

Kirchner K(1), Malessa Ch, Herzberg N, Krumnow S, Habrecht O, Scheuerlein H, 
Bauschke A, Settmacher U.

Author information:
(1)University Hospital Jena, Department of General, Visceral and Vascular 
Surgery, Jena, Germany.

A reproducible and transparent quality of clinical treatments plays an important 
role in the performance of a hospital. In liver transplantation (LT), this is 
particularly important for patient safety, resource planning, documentation, and 
quality management. Thus, the clinical pathway for LT was documented in an 
electronic format within our research project PIGE. Data from clinical 
information systems were linked to this pathway, which allows for process 
monitoring (the assessment of the current state for every patient in the LT 
process) and a retrospective analysis of all treatments in addition to all data 
pertaining to the treatment, for example, cost, time, number of personnel, etc.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.transproceed.2013.02.104
PMID: 23769089 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


776. Neurotoxicol Teratol. 2013 Sep-Oct;39:19-25. doi: 10.1016/j.ntt.2013.06.003. 
Epub 2013 Jun 14.

Prenatal methyl mercury exposure in relation to neurodevelopment and behavior at 
19 years of age in the Seychelles Child Development Study.

van Wijngaarden E(1), Thurston SW, Myers GJ, Strain JJ, Weiss B, Zarcone T, 
Watson GE, Zareba G, McSorley EM, Mulhern MS, Yeates AJ, Henderson J, Gedeon J, 
Shamlaye CF, Davidson PW.

Author information:
(1)University of Rochester School of Medicine and Dentistry, Rochester, NY, 
United States. Electronic address: edwin_van_wijngaarden@urmc.rochester.edu.

BACKGROUND: Fish are important sources of protein and contain a variety of 
nutrients, such as n-3 long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA), essential 
for normal brain development. Nevertheless, all fish also contain methyl mercury 
(MeHg), a known neurotoxicant in adequate dosage. Our studies of the Seychelles 
Child Development Study (SCDS) Main Cohort enrolled in 1989-1990 (n=779) have 
found no consistent pattern of adverse MeHg effects at exposures achieved by 
daily fish consumption. Rather, we have observed evidence of improved 
performance on some cognitive endpoints as prenatal MeHg exposure increases in 
the range studied. These observations cannot be related to MeHg and may reflect 
the role of unmeasured covariates such as essential nutrients present in fish. 
To determine if these associations persist into young adulthood, we examined the 
relationship between prenatal MeHg exposure, recent PUFA exposure and subjects' 
neurodevelopment and behavior at 19 years of age.
METHODS: We examined 533 participants using the following test battery: the 
Profile of Mood States-Bipolar (POMS-Bi); Finger Tapping; Kaufman Brief 
Intelligence Test (K-BIT); measures of Fine Motor Control and Complex Perceptual 
Motor Control; and Visual Spatial Contrast Sensitivity. We collected the 
following covariates: maternal IQ, family life course stressors, socioeconomic 
status, and subjects' recent postnatal MeHg, sex, and computer use. Primary 
analyses (based on N=392-475) examined covariate-adjusted associations in 
multiple linear regression models with prenatal MeHg as the primary exposure 
measure. Secondary analyses additionally adjusted for total n-6 and fish-related 
n-3 PUFA measured in the subjects' serum at the 19-year examination.
RESULTS: Study participants had a mean prenatal MeHg exposure of 6.9 ppm, and a 
mean recent postnatal exposure of 10.3 ppm. There were no adverse associations 
between prenatal MeHg and any of the measured endpoints. For recent postnatal 
MeHg exposure, however, adverse associations were observed for Finger Tapping 
(non-dominant hand) among women and for the K-BIT Matrices for both sexes, with 
or without adjustment for PUFA.
CONCLUSION: Our findings continue to provide no evidence for an adverse effect 
of prenatal MeHg exposure on development in a cohort that consumes fish daily. 
Observations for postnatal MeHg exposure will need to be confirmed using more 
comprehensive exposure measures.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ntt.2013.06.003
PMCID: PMC3795956
PMID: 23770126 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


777. Curr Otorhinolaryngol Rep. 2013 Jun 1;1(2):61-68. doi: 
10.1007/s40136-013-0011-z.

Cochlear implant considerations in children with additional disabilities.

Corrales CE(1), Oghalai JS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Stanford University 
School of Medicine. 801 Welch Road, Stanford, CA 94305, .

Early identification and management of disabilities in children are essential to 
reduce long-term developmental sequelae. Many of the causes of hearing loss also 
produce cognitive delays resulting in a large number of children with both 
deafness and developmental disabilities. Children who have hearing loss and 
additional disabilities require complex, individualized therapy to maximize 
their long-term quality of life. Hearing loss is often detected early because of 
widespread newborn hearing screening programs and the decision for cochlear 
implantation in children presenting with multiple medical and developmental 
disorders is still evolving. This article will review the literature regarding 
cochlear implant considerations in children with additional developmental 
disabilities in areas of family perception, speech and language development, 
cognitive development including adaptive behavior and intelligence, 
communication and functional skills, auditory outcomes, quality of life 
outcomes, predictors of outcomes and realistic expectations after cochlear 
implantation.

DOI: 10.1007/s40136-013-0011-z
PMCID: PMC3678779
PMID: 23772353

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure No potential conflicts of interest 
relevant to this article were reported.


778. Br J Math Stat Psychol. 2014 May;67(2):248-65. doi: 10.1111/bmsp.12017. Epub 
2013 Jun 18.

Testing the difficulty theory of the SON-R 5(1/2)-17, a non-verbal test of 
intelligence.

Geerlings H(1), Laros JA, Tellegen PJ, Glas CA.

Author information:
(1)University of Twente, The Netherlands.

Fischer's (1973) linear logistic test model can be used to test hypotheses 
regarding the effect of covariates on item difficulty and to predict the 
difficulty of newly constructed test items. However, its assumptions of equal 
discriminatory power across items and a perfect prediction of item difficulty 
are never absolutely met. The amount of misfit in an application of a Bayesian 
version of the model to two subtests of the SON-R 5(1/2)-17 is investigated by 
means of item fit statistics in the framework of posterior predictive checks and 
by means of a comparison with a model that allows for residual (co)variance in 
the item parameters. The effect of the degree of residual (co)variance on the 
robustness of inferences is investigated in a simulation study.

© 2013 The British Psychological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/bmsp.12017
PMID: 23773035 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


779. Anim Cogn. 2014 Mar;17(2):207-20. doi: 10.1007/s10071-013-0653-8. Epub 2013 Jun 
18.

"Insight" in pigeons: absence of means-end processing in displacement tests.

Cook RG(1), Fowler C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Tufts University, Medford, MA, 02155, USA, 
robert.cook@tufts.edu.

The understanding of functional relations between action and consequence is a 
critical component of intelligence. To examine this linkage in pigeons, we 
investigated their understanding of the relations of the elements tested in an 
extension of Köhler's box stacking task to this species. In the experiments, the 
pigeons had to move a spatially displaced box under an out-of-reach target. 
Experiment 1 successfully replicated and extended the previous finding showing 
that when separately trained to move a box and stand on it to peck the target, 
pigeons can synthesize these behaviors to solve the single-box displacement 
problem quickly on their first attempt. Experiment 2 tested whether pigeons, 
when given a simultaneous choice between two boxes with identical reinforcement 
histories, would selectively choose the box with the correct functional 
affordance (i.e., permitting standing) to solve the problem rather than a 
non-functional one. Their extensive, equivalent, and undirected behavior in 
moving both boxes during these tests suggests the pigeons did not possess a 
means-end understanding of the functional properties of the boxes. Instead, 
their results were consistent with an analysis of their earlier synthetic 
behavior as being due to the temporal and spatial relations of the physical 
elements in the task and their prior learned behaviors.

DOI: 10.1007/s10071-013-0653-8
PMCID: PMC3894253
PMID: 23774955 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


780. J Appl Res Intellect Disabil. 2014 May;27(3):264-72. doi: 10.1111/jar.12061. 
Epub 2013 Jun 18.

Assisted cycling exercise improves fine manual dexterity in persons with Down's 
syndrome.

Chen CC(1), Ringenbach SD, Albert AR.

Author information:
(1)Kinesiology Program, College of Health Solutions, Arizona State University, 
Tempe, AZ, USA.

BACKGROUND: This study was aimed at investigating the impact of assisted cycling 
therapy (ACT) on fine manual dexterity in adults with Down's syndrome (DS).
METHODS: Nine persons with DS completed four different interventions: voluntary 
exercise (VE), voluntary with music (VEM), assisted exercise (AE) and no 
exercise (NE). Fine manual dexterity (e.g., Purdue Pegboard) was tested pre and 
post interventions.
RESULTS: The results showed dominant and bimanual hands were improved after AE 
but no evident in either subtest after VE. The assembly subtest, processed by 
spatial-temporal ability, was only improved after VEM and NE.
CONCLUSIONS: It is speculated that AE stimulated more peripheral sensory input 
to the motor cortex and neurotransmitters than the other interventions. In 
addition, the involvement of music may enhance spatial intelligence during VEM. 
Even though the exact mechanisms are still unknown, the implication of our 
results showed that AE and VEM can improve fine manual dexterity in persons with 
DS.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jar.12061
PMID: 23775674 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


781. Brain. 2013 Jul;136(Pt 7):2228-38. doi: 10.1093/brain/awt145. Epub 2013 Jun 17.

In vivo radioligand binding to translocator protein correlates with severity of 
Alzheimer's disease.

Kreisl WC(1), Lyoo CH, McGwier M, Snow J, Jenko KJ, Kimura N, Corona W, Morse 
CL, Zoghbi SS, Pike VW, McMahon FJ, Turner RS, Innis RB; Biomarkers Consortium 
PET Radioligand Project Team.

Collaborators: Borroni E, Brady L, Finn T, Hargreaves R, Innis R, Koroshetz W, 
Kreisl W, McCarthy T, Mozley P, Ostrowitzki S, Pike V, Rabiner E, Shearman M, 
Siuciak J, Sur C, Tauscher J.

Author information:
(1)Molecular Imaging Branch, National Institute of Mental Health, Bethesda, MD, 
USA. kreislw@mail.nih.gov

Neuroinflammation is a pathological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease, but its 
role in cognitive impairment and its course of development during the disease 
are largely unknown. To address these unknowns, we used positron emission 
tomography with (11)C-PBR28 to measure translocator protein 18 kDa (TSPO), a 
putative biomarker for inflammation. Patients with Alzheimer's disease, patients 
with mild cognitive impairment and older control subjects were also scanned with 
(11)C-Pittsburgh Compound B to measure amyloid burden. Twenty-nine 
amyloid-positive patients (19 Alzheimer's, 10 mild cognitive impairment) and 13 
amyloid-negative control subjects were studied. The primary goal of this study 
was to determine whether TSPO binding is elevated in patients with Alzheimer's 
disease, and the secondary goal was to determine whether TSPO binding correlates 
with neuropsychological measures, grey matter volume, (11)C-Pittsburgh Compound 
B binding, or age of onset. Patients with Alzheimer's disease, but not those 
with mild cognitive impairment, had greater (11)C-PBR28 binding in cortical 
brain regions than controls. The largest differences were seen in the parietal 
and temporal cortices, with no difference in subcortical regions or cerebellum. 
(11)C-PBR28 binding inversely correlated with performance on Folstein 
Mini-Mental State Examination, Clinical Dementia Rating Scale Sum of Boxes, 
Logical Memory Immediate (Wechsler Memory Scale Third Edition), Trail Making 
part B and Block Design (Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale Third Edition) tasks, 
with the largest correlations observed in the inferior parietal lobule. 
(11)C-PBR28 binding also inversely correlated with grey matter volume. 
Early-onset (<65 years) patients had greater (11)C-PBR28 binding than late-onset 
patients, and in parietal cortex and striatum (11)C-PBR28 binding correlated 
with lower age of onset. Partial volume corrected and uncorrected results were 
generally in agreement; however, the correlation between (11)C-PBR28 and 
(11)C-Pittsburgh Compound B binding was seen only after partial volume 
correction. The results suggest that neuroinflammation, indicated by increased 
(11)C-PBR28 binding to TSPO, occurs after conversion of mild cognitive 
impairment to Alzheimer's disease and worsens with disease progression. Greater 
inflammation may contribute to the precipitous disease course typically seen in 
early-onset patients. (11)C-PBR28 may be useful in longitudinal studies to mark 
the conversion from mild cognitive impairment or to assess response to 
experimental treatments of Alzheimer's disease.

DOI: 10.1093/brain/awt145
PMCID: PMC3692038
PMID: 23775979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


782. Small. 2013 Jul 22;9(14):2382-92. doi: 10.1002/smll.201300824. Epub 2013 Jun 17.

Smart nanomachines based on DNA self-assembly.

Song C(1), Wang ZG, Ding B.

Author information:
(1)National Center for Nanoscience and Technology, Beijing 100190, PR China.

DNA-based nanomachines are self-assembled DNA superstructures that harness 
chemical free energy to perform mechanical work. The development of DNA machines 
has benefited greatly from the achievements in both structural and dynamic DNA 
nanotechnology. In this review, the configurations of DNA machines, fuel 
systems, and operations are discussed to outline the evolving paths of DNA 
machines. The focus is on the smart mechanical behavior of DNA machines, from 
the standpoint of upgrading the complexity of DNA nanostructures, cooperative 
activation of multimachinary systems, and the establishment of a network of the 
mechanical states. In the end, the challenges are highlighted and possible 
solutions are proposed to push forward smart DNA nanomachines, with the goal of 
creating biomimicking systems. Insights are also provided into the potential 
applications of the DNA machines with designable intelligence.

Copyright © 2013 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

DOI: 10.1002/smll.201300824
PMID: 23776091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


783. Pediatrics. 2013 Jul;132(1):e53-60. doi: 10.1542/peds.2012-3497. Epub 2013 Jun 
17.

Impact of neonatal growth on IQ and behavior at early school age.

Smithers LG(1), Lynch JW, Yang S, Dahhou M, Kramer MS.

Author information:
(1)School of Population Health, University of Adelaide, Adelaide, Australia. 
lisa.smithers@adelaide.edu.au

OBJECTIVES: The objective was to examine associations of neonatal weight gain 
(NWG) and head circumference gain (HCG) with IQ scores and behavior at early 
school age.
METHODS: We used data from the Promotion of Breastfeeding Intervention Trial, 
involving Belarusian infants born full term and weighing ≥2500 g. NWG and HCG 
were measured as the percentage gain in weight and head circumference over the 
first 4 weeks relative to birth size. IQ and behavior were measured at 6.5 years 
of age by using the Wechsler Abbreviated Scales of Intelligence and the 
Strengths and Difficulties Questionnaire (SDQ), respectively, with SDQ collected 
from parents and teachers. The associations between the exposures (NWG, HCG) and 
children's IQ and SDQ were examined by using mixed models to account for 
clustering of measurements, and adjustment for potentially confounding perinatal 
and socioeconomic factors.
RESULTS: Mean NWG was 26% (SD 10%) of birth weight. In fully adjusted models, 
infants in the highest versus lowest quartile of NWG had 1.5-point (95% 
confidence interval [CI] 0.8 to 2.2) higher IQ scores (n = 13 840). A weak 
negative (protective) association between NWG and SDQ total difficulties scores 
was observed for the teacher-reported (β = -0.39, 95% CI -0.71 to -0.08, n = 
12 016), but not the parent-reported (β = -0.12, 95% CI -0.39 to 0.15, n = 
13 815), SDQ. Similar associations were observed with HCG and IQ and behavior.
CONCLUSIONS: Faster gains in weight or head circumference in the 4 weeks after 
birth may contribute to children's IQ, but reverse causality (brain function 
affects neonatal growth) cannot be excluded.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.2012-3497
PMCID: PMC4530288
PMID: 23776123 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


784. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2013 Jul 16;110(29):12060-5. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.1302982110. Epub 2013 Jun 17.

Underconnectivity between voice-selective cortex and reward circuitry in 
children with autism.

Abrams DA(1), Lynch CJ, Cheng KM, Phillips J, Supekar K, Ryali S, Uddin LQ, 
Menon V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Stanford University School 
of Medicine, Palo Alto, CA 94304, USA. daa@stanford.edu

Comment in
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2013 Oct 15;110(42):E3973.
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2013 Oct 15;110(42):E3974.

Individuals with autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) often show insensitivity to 
the human voice, a deficit that is thought to play a key role in communication 
deficits in this population. The social motivation theory of ASD predicts that 
impaired function of reward and emotional systems impedes children with ASD from 
actively engaging with speech. Here we explore this theory by investigating 
distributed brain systems underlying human voice perception in children with 
ASD. Using resting-state functional MRI data acquired from 20 children with ASD 
and 19 age- and intelligence quotient-matched typically developing children, we 
examined intrinsic functional connectivity of voice-selective bilateral 
posterior superior temporal sulcus (pSTS). Children with ASD showed a striking 
pattern of underconnectivity between left-hemisphere pSTS and distributed nodes 
of the dopaminergic reward pathway, including bilateral ventral tegmental areas 
and nucleus accumbens, left-hemisphere insula, orbitofrontal cortex, and 
ventromedial prefrontal cortex. Children with ASD also showed underconnectivity 
between right-hemisphere pSTS, a region known for processing speech prosody, and 
the orbitofrontal cortex and amygdala, brain regions critical for 
emotion-related associative learning. The degree of underconnectivity between 
voice-selective cortex and reward pathways predicted symptom severity for 
communication deficits in children with ASD. Our results suggest that weak 
connectivity of voice-selective cortex and brain structures involved in reward 
and emotion may impair the ability of children with ASD to experience speech as 
a pleasurable stimulus, thereby impacting language and social skill development 
in this population. Our study provides support for the social motivation theory 
of ASD.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1302982110
PMCID: PMC3718181
PMID: 23776244 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


785. J Psychiatr Res. 2013 Oct;47(10):1363-9. doi: 10.1016/j.jpsychires.2013.05.017. 
Epub 2013 Jun 15.

Gray matter abnormalities in patients with narcissistic personality disorder.

Schulze L(1), Dziobek I, Vater A, Heekeren HR, Bajbouj M, Renneberg B, Heuser I, 
Roepke S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Psychology and Psychotherapy, Freie Universität 
Berlin, Berlin, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Despite the relevance of narcissistic personality disorder (NPD) in 
clinical settings, there is currently no empirical data available regarding the 
neurobiological correlates of NPD. In the present study, we performed a 
voxel-based morphometric analysis to provide initial insight into local 
abnormalities of gray matter (GM) volume.
METHODS: Structural brain images were obtained from patients with NPD (n = 17) 
and a sample of healthy controls (n = 17) matched regarding age, gender, 
handedness, and intelligence. Groups were compared with regard to global brain 
tissue volumes and local abnormalities of GM volume. Regions-of-interest 
analyses were calculated for the anterior insula.
RESULTS: Relative to the control group, NPD patients had smaller GM volume in 
the left anterior insula. Independent of group, GM volume in the left anterior 
insula was positively related to self-reported emotional empathy. Complementary 
whole-brain analyses yielded smaller GM volume in fronto-paralimbic brain 
regions comprising the rostral and median cingulate cortex as well as 
dorsolateral and medial parts of the prefrontal cortex.
CONCLUSION: Here we provide the first empirical evidence for structural 
abnormalities in fronto-paralimbic brain regions of patients with NPD. The 
results are discussed in the context of NPD patients' restricted ability for 
emotional empathy.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpsychires.2013.05.017
PMID: 23777939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


786. Theranostics. 2013 May 25;3(6):437-47. doi: 10.7150/thno.5658. Print 2013.

Real time dynamic imaging and current targeted therapies in the war on cancer: a 
new paradigm.

Paulmurugan R(1), Oronsky B, Brouse CF, Reid T, Knox S, Scicinski J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Stanford University School of Medicine, 1501 South 
California Avenue, Palo Alto, CA 94304, USA. paulmur8@stanford.edu

In biology, as every science student is made to learn, ontology recapitulates 
phylogeny. In medicine, however, oncology recapitulates polemology, the science 
of warfare: The medical establishment is transitioning from highly toxic poisons 
that kill rapidly dividing normal and malignant cells with little specificity to 
tailored therapies that target the tumors with the lethality of the therapeutic 
warhead. From the advent of the information age with the incorporation of 
high-tech intelligence, reconnaissance, and surveillance has resulted in "data 
fusion" where a wide range of information collected in near real-time can be 
used to redesign most of the treatment strategies currently used in the clinic. 
The medical community has begun to transition from the 'black box' of tumor 
therapy based solely on the clinical response to the 'glass box' of dynamic 
imaging designed to bring transparency to the clinical battlefield during 
treatment, thereby informing the therapeutic decision to 'retreat or repeat'. 
The tumor microenvironment is dynamic, constantly changing in response to 
therapeutic intervention, and therefore the therapeutic assessment must map to 
this variable and ever-changing landscape with dynamic and non-static imaging 
capabilities. The path to personalized medicine will require incorporation and 
integration of dynamic imaging at the bedside into clinical practice for 
real-time, interactive assessment of response to targeted therapies. The 
application of advanced real time imaging techniques along with current 
molecularly targeted anticancer therapies which alter cellular homeostasis and 
microenvironment can enhance therapeutic interventions in cancer patients and 
further improve the current status in clinical management of patients with 
advanced cancers.

DOI: 10.7150/thno.5658
PMCID: PMC3677414
PMID: 23781290 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interest exists.


787. J Child Adolesc Psychopharmacol. 2013 Jun;23(5):337-51. doi: 
10.1089/cap.2012.0096.

Effects of extended release methylphenidate treatment on ratings of 
attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and associated behavior in 
children with autism spectrum disorders and ADHD symptoms.

Pearson DA(1), Santos CW, Aman MG, Arnold LE, Casat CD, Mansour R, Lane DM, 
Loveland KA, Bukstein OG, Jerger SW, Factor P, Vanwoerden S, Perez E, Cleveland 
LA.

Author information:
(1)University of Texas Medical School at Houston, Houston, TX 77054, USA. 
Deborah.A.Pearson@uth.tmc.edu

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to examine the behavioral effects of 
four doses of psychostimulant medication, combining extended-release 
methylphenidate (MPH) in the morning with immediate-release MPH in the 
afternoon.
METHOD: The sample comprised 24 children (19 boys; 5 girls) who met American 
Psychiatric Association, Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, 
4th ed. (DSM-IV-TR) criteria for an autism spectrum disorder (ASD) on the Autism 
Diagnostic Interview-Revised (ADI-R) and the Autism Diagnostic Observation 
Schedule (ADOS), and had significant symptoms of attention-deficit/hyperactivity 
disorder (ADHD). This sample consisted of elementary school-age, community-based 
children (mean chronological age=8.8 years, SD=1.7; mean intelligence quotient 
[IQ]=85; SD=16.8). Effects of four dose levels of MPH on parent and teacher 
behavioral ratings were investigated using a within-subject, crossover, 
placebo-controlled design.
RESULTS: MPH treatment was associated with significant declines in hyperactive 
and impulsive behavior at both home and school. Parents noted significant 
declines in inattentive and oppositional behavior, and improvements in social 
skills. No exacerbation of stereotypies was noted, and side effects were similar 
to those seen in typically developing children with ADHD. Dose response was 
primarily linear in the dose range studied.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of this study suggest that MPH formulations are 
efficacious and well-tolerated for children with ASD and significant ADHD 
symptoms.

DOI: 10.1089/cap.2012.0096
PMCID: PMC3689935
PMID: 23782128 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


788. Z Kinder Jugendpsychiatr Psychother. 2013 Jul;41(4):261-70. doi: 
10.1024/1422-4917//a000240.

[Cognitive flexibility in adolescent patients with unipolar affective 
disorders-gender differences].

[Article in German; Abstract available in German from the publisher]

Sarrar L(1), Warschburger P, Pfeiffer E, Lehmkuhl U, Schneider N.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Psychiatrie, Psychosomatik und Psychotherapie des Kindes- und 
Jugendalters, Charité - Universitätsmedizin Berlin, 13353, USA. 
lea.sarrar@charite.de

OBJECTIVE: Several studies have revealed impairments in cognitive functions 
among patients with affective disorders (AD). However, to date there are few 
neuropsychological studies on cognitive flexibility among adolescent patients 
with AD, especially on gender differences in AD. Here, we investigate cognitive 
functions, especially cognitive flexibility, in adolescent patients with 
unipolar AD (UAD) compared to a healthy control group (CG).
METHOD: The study population consists of 17 male patients (M<inf>age</inf> = 
15.4 ± 1.3) and 22 female patients with UAD (M<inf>age</inf> = 15.6 ± 1.4) as 
well as 20 male (M<inf>age</inf> = 16.0 ± 1.0) and 30 female (M<inf>age</inf> = 
15.7 ± 0.9) healthy adolescents. A neuropsychological test battery was 
conducted, and depressive symptoms, psychological stress, and intelligence were 
also assessed.
RESULTS: The analyses revealed no significant group differences regarding 
cognitive flexibility or visual processing speed, albeit slight better 
performance in motor processing speed for the CG. Furthermore, no gender 
differences were observed regarding cognitive flexibility, though female 
subjects general displayed better performance in processing speed.
CONCLUSIONS: Overall, there are no indications for serious deficits and specific 
gender differences in cognitive flexibility or processing speed in adolescent 
patients with UAD. Independent of psychological distress, female subjects seem 
to have some advantages in processing speed.

Publisher: Fragestellung: Verschiedene Studien verweisen auf Einschränkungen in 
der kognitiven Flexibilität bei Patienten mit Affektiven Störungen (AS). Derzeit 
herrscht jedoch ein Forschungsmangel hinsichtlich neuropsychologischer 
Untersuchungen bei jugendlichen Patienten mit AS sowie der Erforschung 
geschlechtsbezogener Unterschiede. Ziel der vorliegenden Studie ist daher die 
Erfassung kognitiver Funktionen, insbesondere kognitiver Flexibilität, bei 
jugendlichen Patienten mit unipolaren Affektiven Störungen (UAS) im Vergleich zu 
einer gesunden Kontrollgruppe (KG). Methodik: In die Stichprobe wurden 17 
männliche (M<inf>Alter</inf> = 15.4 ± 1.3) und 22 weibliche (M<inf>Alter </inf>= 
15.6 ± 1.4) Patienten mit UAS sowie 20 männliche (M<inf>Alter</inf> = 16.0 ± 
1.0) und 30 weibliche (M<inf>Alter</inf> = 15.7 ± 0.9) gesunde Kontrollprobanden 
einbezogen. Neben dem Einsatz einer neuropsychologische Testbatterie erfolgte 
die Erfassung depressiver Symptome, psychischer Belastung sowie Intelligenz. 
Ergebnisse: Die Ergebnisse zeigen keine signifikanten Gruppenunterschiede 
bezüglich kognitiver Flexibilität oder visueller Verarbeitungsgeschwindigkeit 
und lediglich tendenzielle Unterschiede hinsichtlich der motorischen 
Verarbeitungsgeschwindigkeit mit einer besseren Leistung bei der KG. Zudem 
ergeben sich keine geschlechtsbezogenen Unterschiede in der kognitiven 
Flexibilität, jedoch bessere Leistungen in der Verarbeitungsgeschwindigkeit bei 
weiblichen Probanden. Schlussfolgerung: Insgesamt betrachtet offenbaren sich 
keine Hinweise für gravierende Einschränkungen in der kognitiven Flexibilität 
und Verarbeitungsgeschwindigkeit oder diesbezügliche spezifische 
geschlechtsbezogene Unterschiede bei jugendlichen Patienten mit UAS. Mädchen 
scheinen, unabhängig von einer psychischen Beeinträchtigung, Vorteile in Bezug 
auf die Verarbeitungsgeschwindigkeit aufzuweisen.

DOI: 10.1024/1422-4917//a000240
PMID: 23782564 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


789. Bioinformatics. 2013 Aug 15;29(16):1925-33. doi: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btt333. 
Epub 2013 Jun 19.

Crowdsourcing for bioinformatics.

Good BM(1), Su AI.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular and Experimental Medicine, The Scripps Research 
Institute, La Jolla, CA 92037, USA. bgood@scripps.edu

MOTIVATION: Bioinformatics is faced with a variety of problems that require 
human involvement. Tasks like genome annotation, image analysis, knowledge-base 
population and protein structure determination all benefit from human input. In 
some cases, people are needed in vast quantities, whereas in others, we need 
just a few with rare abilities. Crowdsourcing encompasses an emerging collection 
of approaches for harnessing such distributed human intelligence. Recently, the 
bioinformatics community has begun to apply crowdsourcing in a variety of 
contexts, yet few resources are available that describe how these human-powered 
systems work and how to use them effectively in scientific domains.
RESULTS: Here, we provide a framework for understanding and applying several 
different types of crowdsourcing. The framework considers two broad classes: 
systems for solving large-volume 'microtasks' and systems for solving 
high-difficulty 'megatasks'. Within these classes, we discuss system types, 
including volunteer labor, games with a purpose, microtask markets and open 
innovation contests. We illustrate each system type with successful examples in 
bioinformatics and conclude with a guide for matching problems to crowdsourcing 
solutions that highlights the positives and negatives of different approaches.

DOI: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btt333
PMCID: PMC3722523
PMID: 23782614 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


790. J Dev Behav Pediatr. 2013 Jul-Aug;34(6):392-8. doi: 
10.1097/DBP.0b013e31829a79ef.

Cognitive findings and behavior in children and adolescents with 
phenylketonuria.

Cappelletti S(1), Cotugno G, Goffredo BM, Nicolò R, Bernabei SM, Caviglia S, Di 
Ciommo V.

Author information:
(1)Unit of Clinical Psychology, Department of Neurosciences, Bambino Gesù 
Children's Hospital, IRCCS, Rome, Italy.

OBJECTIVE: The primary aim of this study was to assess cognitive development, in 
particular that of executive functions (EFs), and behavioral findings for 
patients with early treated phenylketonuria (PKU). Furthermore, we evaluated the 
relationships of our findings with plasma levels of Phe and adherence to dietary 
prescriptions.
METHODS: A cross-sectional design was adopted. Patients who had early treated 
PKU, who were older than 4 years, and who were regularly seen by a physician 
were enrolled in the study. Cognitive development was assessed with Wechsler 
Scales appropriate to the chronological age of subjects in the study. Executive 
functions were assessed using the Tower of London test, and behavioral findings 
were quantified with the Child Behavior Checklist.
RESULTS: Thirty-five patients were enrolled (mean age 11.5 years, SD ± 6.2). The 
mean Full Scale intelligence quotient was in the normal range (93.4 ± 17.4), 
without significant difference between the verbal intelligence quotient (mean, 
94.3 ± 16.1) and performance intelligence quotient (mean, 93.9 ± 18.0). The 
majority of patients showed a deficit within the EF domain of cognitive 
abilities (mean lower than 1.8 SD of the normal mean), 8 of them showing a score 
<2 SD lower than the normal mean. Internalizing problems were also observed in 
12 patients (38.7%) and were higher in adherent patients and in patients with a 
lower intelligence quotient.
CONCLUSION: After early diagnosis and treatment of PKU, residual problems can be 
found in EFs of patients not achieving satisfactory Phe levels, while scores of 
internalizing behaviors were higher in compliant patients.

DOI: 10.1097/DBP.0b013e31829a79ef
PMID: 23782895 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


791. Am J Clin Nutr. 2013 Aug;98(2):536S-42S. doi: 10.3945/ajcn.112.038612.

Effects of long-chain PUFA supplementation in infant formula on cognitive 
function in later childhood.

Willatts P(1), Forsyth S, Agostoni C, Casaer P, Riva E, Boehm G.

Author information:
(1)University of Dundee, Dundee, UK. p.willatts@dundee.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Evidence is accumulating that a dietary supply of long-chain 
polyunsaturated fatty acids (LC-PUFAs) enhances the development of attention and 
efficient information processing in infants. However, it is uncertain whether 
LC-PUFAs in infancy influence cognitive development in later childhood.
OBJECTIVE: The objective was to determine the effects of dietary LC-PUFAs in 
infancy on measures of cognitive function at age 6 y.
DESIGN: Infants were randomly assigned to receive formula containing either 
docosahexaenoic acid and arachidonic acid or no LCPUFAs for a period of 4 mo. A 
reference breastfed group was also included. In a follow-up conducted at age 6 
y, children received assessments of intelligence quotient (IQ), attention 
control (Day-Night Test), and speed of processing on the Matching Familiar 
Figures Test (MFFT).
RESULTS: At follow-up there were 71 children in the LC-PUFA group, 76 in the 
control group, and 88 in the breastfed group. The formula groups did not differ 
on measures of Full-Scale IQ (LCPUFA mean = 98.0; control mean = 100.9) or 
attention control (LCPUFA mean = 12.7; control mean = 12.8). MFFT error scores 
were the same for both formula groups, but when making correct responses, the 
LC-PUFA group was significantly faster (mean = 6.2 s) than the control group 
[mean = 7.8 s; F(1, 131) = 6.09, P = 0.015].
CONCLUSIONS: IQ scores of children who were fed a formula containing either 
LC-PUFAs or no LC-PUFAs did not differ at age 6 y. However, children who 
received LC-PUFAs were faster at processing information compared with children 
who received unsupplemented formula. Variation in the dietary supply of LC-PUFAs 
in the first months of life may have long-term consequences for the development 
of some cognitive functions in later childhood.

DOI: 10.3945/ajcn.112.038612
PMID: 23783296 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


792. Clin Child Psychol Psychiatry. 2014 Jul;19(3):460-75. doi: 
10.1177/1359104513489979. Epub 2013 Jun 19.

Attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in the early years: diagnostic 
issues and educational relevance.

Schmiedeler S(1), Schneider W(2).

Author information:
(1)University of Wuerzburg, Wuerzburg, Germany 
s.schmiedeler@psychologie.uni-wuerzburg.de.
(2)University of Wuerzburg, Wuerzburg, Germany.

In this study we discuss implications of the dimensional versus categorical 
approach in the diagnosis of attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and 
focus on the educational relevance of an early assessment. In a longitudinal 
study in a German community sample we investigated the development of ADHD 
symptoms from kindergarten until the end of Grade 1 as well as the association 
to pre-academic skills and later academic performance. At three time points in 
kindergarten, children (original sample N = 793; Mn age 4 years 10 months) were 
assessed in regard to school-relevant precursors of reading, spelling and 
mathematical abilities; ADHD symptoms were rated by parents and preschool 
teachers. In elementary school academic performance in reading, spelling, and 
mathematics was measured with standardized tests. Results show that stability of 
ADHD symptoms during preschool was high considering the dimensional approach, 
whereas in regard to the categorical classification many children crossing the 
cut-off point at one measurement point did not do so at the next assessment. 
Furthermore, preschool ADHD symptoms were negatively correlated with all 
school-relevant precursors. This was more pronounced for symptoms of inattention 
than for hyperactivity/impulsivity. Observing later development, preschool ADHD 
symptoms predicted academic achievement in mathematics and reading at the end of 
Grade 1 even after individual differences in nonverbal intelligence and specific 
precursors had been statistically controlled for.

© The Author(s) 2013.

DOI: 10.1177/1359104513489979
PMID: 23785052 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


793. Scand J Psychol. 2013 Oct;54(5):363-70. doi: 10.1111/sjop.12062. Epub 2013 Jun 
20.

Profile of cognitive deficits and associations with depressive symptoms and 
intelligence in chronic early-onset schizophrenia patients.

Jepsen JR(1), Fagerlund B, Pagsberg AK, Christensen AM, Nordentoft M, Mortensen 
EL.

Author information:
(1)Child and Adolescent Psychiatric Center Bispebjerg, Copenhagen University 
Hospital Bispebjerg, Copenhagen, Denmark. 
Jens.Richardt.Moellegaard.Jepsen@regionh.dk

Cognitive deficits in several domains have been demonstrated in early-onset 
schizophrenia patients but their profile and relation to depressive symptoms and 
intelligence need further characterization. The purpose was to characterize the 
profile of cognitive deficits in chronic, early-onset schizophrenia patients, 
assess the potential associations with depressive symptom severity, and examine 
whether cognitive deficits within several domains reflect intelligence 
impairments. This study compared attention, visual-construction, aspects of 
visual and verbal memory, and executive functions in chronic, early-onset 
schizophrenia patients (mean age = 20.7 years) (N = 18) and healthy controls (N 
= 38). Schizophrenia diagnoses were established at the time of the patients' 
first clinical presentation during childhood or adolescence and were confirmed 
five years later. In the chronic phase of early-onset schizophrenia, significant 
deficits were observed in all specific cognitive functions. The profile of 
cognitive deficits was jagged, and visual-construction, attention, and one 
aspect of verbal memory (verbal stories recall) were differentially impaired. 
Deficits of visual recall, visual recognition, and executive functions were 
accounted for by deficits in intelligence, while this was not the case for 
deficits of verbal recall of stories or attention. No significant associations 
were observed between the severity of cognitive deficits and that of depressive 
symptoms. Chronic, early-onset schizophrenia is characterized by a broad and 
jagged profile of cognitive deficits. Deficits of attention and verbal recall of 
stories appear not to be accounted for by deficits in intelligence, and the 
severity of cognitive deficits seems independent from that of depressive 
symptoms.

© 2013 The Scandinavian Psychological Associations.

DOI: 10.1111/sjop.12062
PMID: 23786210 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


794. Scand J Psychol. 2013 Oct;54(5):407-14. doi: 10.1111/sjop.12058. Epub 2013 Jun 
21.

Are emotional intelligent workers also more empathic?

Martos MP(1), Lopez-Zafra E, Pulido-Martos M, Augusto JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Jaén, Jaén, Spain. pberrios@ujaen.es

This paper analyzes whether emotional intelligence and self-monitoring are 
related to empathy among a sample of workers in both the public and private 
employment sectors. Two hundred and forty-two employees (42.5% men and 57.5% 
women) with a mean age of 35.21 years (SD = 10.07, range 18-61) completed a 
questionnaire that measured the variables of interest. The results showed that 
emotion regulation, a dimension of emotional intelligence, accounts for most of 
the variance of empathy, followed by the ability to understand emotions and the 
management of others' emotions. Furthermore, gender did not yield any moderator 
effect on the relations among emotional intelligence, self-monitoring and 
empathy. We conclude that the intrapersonal aspects of emotional intelligence, 
in particular, emotion regulation, help explain the empathy of workers. The 
implications of these findings are discussed herein.

© 2013 The Scandinavian Psychological Associations.

DOI: 10.1111/sjop.12058
PMID: 23786638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


795. IEEE Trans Pattern Anal Mach Intell. 2013 Aug;35(8):1930-43. doi: 
10.1109/TPAMI.2012.277.

Stacked autoencoders for unsupervised feature learning and multiple organ 
detection in a pilot study using 4D patient data.

Shin HC(1), Orton MR, Collins DJ, Doran SJ, Leach MO.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Cancer Rearch Royal Marsden NHS Foundation Trust, Sutton, United 
Kingdom. hoo.shin@icr.ac.uk

Medical image analysis remains a challenging application area for artificial 
intelligence. When applying machine learning, obtaining ground-truth labels for 
supervised learning is more difficult than in many more common applications of 
machine learning. This is especially so for datasets with abnormalities, as 
tissue types and the shapes of the organs in these datasets differ widely. 
However, organ detection in such an abnormal dataset may have many promising 
potential real-world applications, such as automatic diagnosis, automated 
radiotherapy planning, and medical image retrieval, where new multimodal medical 
images provide more information about the imaged tissues for diagnosis. Here, we 
test the application of deep learning methods to organ identification in 
magnetic resonance medical images, with visual and temporal hierarchical 
features learned to categorize object classes from an unlabeled multimodal 
DCE-MRI dataset so that only a weakly supervised training is required for a 
classifier. A probabilistic patch-based method was employed for multiple organ 
detection, with the features learned from the deep learning model. This shows 
the potential of the deep learning model for application to medical images, 
despite the difficulty of obtaining libraries of correctly labeled training 
datasets and despite the intrinsic abnormalities present in patient datasets.

DOI: 10.1109/TPAMI.2012.277
PMID: 23787345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


796. J Nerv Ment Dis. 2013 Jul;201(7):609-13. doi: 10.1097/NMD.0b013e3182982d00.

Influence of the neuropsychological functions in theory of mind in 
schizophrenia: the false-belief/deception paradigm.

Fernandez-Gonzalo S(1), Pousa E, Jodar M, Turon M, Duño R, Palao D.

Author information:
(1)Research Department, Fundació-Universitary Hospital Parc Taulí, Corporació 
Sanitària i Universitària Parc Taulí, Parc Taulí 1, 08208, Sabadell, Barcelona, 
Spain. msfernandez@tauli.cat

The aim of this study was to investigate the influence of neurocognition in a 
false-belief/deception theory of mind (ToM) task in a sample of patients with 
schizophrenia. In a cross-sectional study of 43 remitted patients, the 
implication of neurocognition in first- and second-order ToM stories was 
analyzed, controlling for clinical symptoms and duration of illness. None of the 
cognitive factors were associated with the first-order ToM stories. A logistic 
regression model with high specificity (96.3%) and sensitivity (75%) was 
obtained in the second-order ToM story "The Burglar," the Information subtest 
(odds ratio [OR], 0.783; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.62-0.99; p = 0.04) and 
the Block Design subtest (OR, 0.89; 95% CI, 0.79-1; p = 0.056) of the Wechsler 
Adult Intelligence Scale-III being the best predictive factors. Neurocognition 
was not related to first- or second-order ToM false-belief performance of the 
patients with schizophrenia. However, an influence of neuropsychological 
variables in the second-order ToM deception was observed. The clinical 
implications in the assessment of ToM are discussed.

DOI: 10.1097/NMD.0b013e3182982d00
PMID: 23787482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


797. Autism Res. 2013 Aug;6(4):225-36. doi: 10.1002/aur.1283. Epub 2013 Jun 20.

Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder symptoms in adults with autism spectrum 
disorders.

Johnston K(1), Dittner A, Bramham J, Murphy C, Knight A, Russell A.

Author information:
(1)Kings College London, Institute of Psychiatry/South London and Maudsley NHS 
Foundation Trust, Forensic Psychology Service, National and Specialist Child and 
Adolescent Mental Health Service, Michael Rutter Centre, De Crespigny Park, 
London, UK. kate.johnston@slam.nhs.uk

Features of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and impairments on 
neuropsychological, tests of attention have been documented in children with 
autism spectrum disorders (ASDs). To date, there has been a lack of research 
comparing attention in adults with ASD and adults with ADHD. In study 1, 31 
adults with ASD and average intellectual function completed self-report measures 
of ADHD symptoms. These were compared with self-report measures of ADHD symptoms 
in 38 adults with ADHD and 29 general population controls. In study 2, 28 adults 
with a diagnosis of ASD were compared with an age- and intelligence 
quotient-matched sample of 28 adults with ADHD across a range of measures of 
attention. Study 1 showed that 36.7% of adults with ASD met Diagnostic and 
Statistical Manual-IV criteria for current ADHD "caseness" (Barkley Current 
self-report scores questionnaire). Those with a diagnosis of pervasive 
developmental disorder-not otherwise specified were most likely to describe ADHD 
symptoms. The ASD group differed significantly from both the ADHD and control 
groups on total and individual symptom self-report scores. On neuropsychological 
testing, adults with ASD and ADHD showed comparable performance on tests of 
selective attention. Significant group differences were seen on measures of 
attentional switching; adults with ADHD were significantly faster and more 
inaccurate, and individuals with Asperger's syndrome showed a significantly 
slower and more accurate response style. Self-reported rates of ADHD among 
adults with ASD are significantly higher than in the general adult population 
and may be underdiagnosed. Adults with ASD have attentional difficulties on some 
neuropsychological measures.

© 2013 International Society for Autism Research, Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/aur.1283
PMID: 23788522 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


798. Clin Microbiol Infect. 2013 Nov;19(11):1006-13. doi: 10.1111/1469-0691.12273. 
Epub 2013 Jun 21.

An overview of internet biosurveillance.

Hartley DM(1), Nelson NP, Arthur RR, Barboza P, Collier N, Lightfoot N, Linge 
JP, van der Goot E, Mawudeku A, Madoff LC, Vaillant L, Walters R, Yangarber R, 
Mantero J, Corley CD, Brownstein JS.

Author information:
(1)Imaging Science and Information Systems Center, Georgetown University School 
of Medicine, Washington, DC, USA; Department of Microbiology and Immunology, 
Georgetown University Medical Center, Washington, DC, USA.

Internet biosurveillance utilizes unstructured data from diverse web-based 
sources to provide early warning and situational awareness of public health 
threats. The scope of source coverage ranges from local media in the vernacular 
to international media in widely read languages. Internet biosurveillance is a 
timely modality that is available to government and public health officials, 
healthcare workers, and the public and private sector, serving as a real-time 
complementary approach to traditional indicator-based public health disease 
surveillance methods. Internet biosurveillance also supports the broader 
activity of epidemic intelligence. This overview covers the current state of the 
field of Internet biosurveillance, and provides a perspective on the future of 
the field.

© 2013 The Authors Clinical Microbiology and Infection © 2013 European Society 
of Clinical Microbiology and Infectious Diseases.

DOI: 10.1111/1469-0691.12273
PMID: 23789639 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


799. Environ Res. 2013 Oct;126:9-16. doi: 10.1016/j.envres.2013.05.006. Epub 2013 Jun 
20.

Relationship between blood manganese levels and children's attention, cognition, 
behavior, and academic performance--a nationwide cross-sectional study.

Bhang SY(1), Cho SC, Kim JW, Hong YC, Shin MS, Yoo HJ, Cho IH, Kim Y, Kim BN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Gangnam Eulji Hospital, Eulji University, Seoul, 
Republic of Korea; Suicide and School Mental Health Institute, Anyang, Republic 
of Korea.

Manganese (Mn) is neurotoxic at high concentrations. However, Mn is an essential 
element that can protect against oxidative damage; thus, extremely low levels of 
Mn might be harmful. Our aim was to examine whether either high or low 
environmental Mn exposure is related to academic and attention function 
development among school-aged children. This cross-sectional study included 1089 
children 8-11 years of age living in five representative areas in South Korea. 
Blood Mn, blood lead, and urine cotinine were measured. We assessed IQ with the 
Wechsler Abbreviated Scale of Intelligence; attention with a computerized 
continuous performance test called the Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder 
(ADHD) Diagnostic System (ADS), the Korean version of the Stroop Color-Word 
Test, the Children's Color Trails Test (CCTT), and the ADHD Rating Scale; 
academic functions with the Learning Disability Evaluation Scale (LDES); and 
emotional and behavioral problems with the Korean version of the Child Behavior 
Checklist (CBCL). We further assessed the presence of ADHD using a highly 
structured diagnostic interview, the Diagnostic Interview Schedule for Children 
Version IV (DISC-IV). The median blood concentration of Mn was 14.14 µg/L. We 
observed a nonlinear association between the CCTT2 completion time and the CPT 
commission error (F=3.14, p=0.03 and F=4.05, p=0.01, respectively). We divided 
the data into three groups: lower (<8.154 µg/L), and upper 5th percentile 
(>21.453 µg/L) and middle 90th percentile to determine whether a lack or 
overload of Mn could cause adverse effects. After adjusting for urine cotinine, 
blood lead, children's IQ, and other potential confounders, the high Mn group 
showed lower scores in thinking (B=-0.83, p=0.006), reading (B=-0.93, p=0.004), 
calculations (B=-0.72, p=0.005), and LQ (B=-4.06, p=0.006) in the LDES and a 
higher commission error in the CPT (B=8.02, p=0.048). The low Mn group showed 
lower color scores in the Stroop test (B=-3.24, p=0.040). We found that excess 
Mn in children is associated with lower scores of thinking, reading, 
calculation, and LQ in the LDES and higher scores of commission error in the ADS 
test. In contrast, lower Mn in children is associated with lower color scores in 
the Stroop test. The findings of this cross-sectional study suggest that excess 
exposure or deficiency of Mn can cause harmful effects in children.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envres.2013.05.006
PMID: 23790803 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


800. J Pediatr (Rio J). 2013 Jul-Aug;89(4):346-53. doi: 10.1016/j.jped.2012.12.010. 
Epub 2013 Jun 21.

Impact of breastfeeding on the intelligence quotient of eight-year-old children.

Fonseca AL(1), Albernaz EP, Kaufmann CC, Neves IH, Figueiredo VL.

Author information:
(1)Programa de Pós-graduação em Saúde e Comportamento, Universidade Católica de 
Pelotas, Pelotas, RS, Brazil. anamellofonseca@yahoo.com.br

Comment in
    J Pediatr (Rio J). 2013 Jul-Aug;89(4):327-9.

OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to determine the influence of breastfeeding on the 
intellectual capacity of children from a cohort in a developing country, with a 
control for the main confounding factors.
METHODS: A prospective cohort study was performed including all infants born in 
the hospitals of a medium-size city, and a random sample of these newborns was 
monitored at 30, 90, and 180 days of life, and at age 8 years. Several aspects 
of breastfeeding were assessed in the follow-up and, at 8 years, general 
intellectual capacity was assessed through the Raven's Colored Progressive 
Matrices test. The statistical analyses used Student's t-test, ANOVA, and linear 
regression and logistics, considering p-values less than 0.05 as statistically 
significant associations.
RESULTS: At age 8 years, 560 children were assessed with Raven's Colored 
Progressive Matrices test. The average score was 22.56 points, with a standard 
deviation of 5.93. The difference in the averages found between the breastfed 
and non-breastfed groups at six months of age was 1.33 (p=0.008). Mother's and 
child's skin color, social and economic class, maternal education and smoking, 
and breastfeeding at six months of age (p=0.007) were still associated with the 
outcome.
CONCLUSIONS: Children that were breastfed for six months or more had better 
performance in the general intellectual assessment, even after adjusting for the 
main confounding factors.

Copyright © 2013 Sociedade Brasileira de Pediatria. Published by Elsevier 
Editora Ltda. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jped.2012.12.010
PMID: 23791025 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


801. Neuroimage. 2013 Dec;83:372-83. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2013.06.040. Epub 2013 
Jun 19.

General fluid-type intelligence is related to indices of white matter structure 
in middle-aged and old adults.

Haász J(1), Westlye ET, Fjær S, Espeseth T, Lundervold A, Lundervold AJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological and Medical Psychology, University of Bergen, 5009 
Bergen, Norway; Neuroinformatics and Image Analysis Laboratory, Department of 
Biomedicine, University of Bergen, 5009 Bergen, Norway; Department of Clinical 
Medicine, University of Bergen, 5020 Bergen, Norway. Electronic address: 
judit.haasz@nevro.uib.no.

General fluid-type intelligence (gF) reflects abstract reasoning and problem 
solving abilities, and is an important predictor for lifetime trajectories of 
cognition, and physical and mental health. Structural and functional 
neuroimaging studies have demonstrated the role of parieto-frontal gray matter, 
but the white matter (WM) underpinnings of gF and the contribution of individual 
gF components to gF-WM relationship still need to be explored. The aim of this 
study was to characterize, in a sample of 100 healthy middle-aged and old 
subjects (mean=63.8 years), the relationship between gF and indices of WM 
structure obtained from diffusion tensor magnetic resonance imaging (DT-MRI) 
(fractional anisotropy (FA), mean diffusivity (MD), radial diffusivity (RD), and 
axial diffusivity (AD)). gF was estimated by principal component analysis 
including measures of episodic memory, reasoning, and processing speed. 
Tract-based spatial statistics and permutation-based inference statistics were 
used to test the association between gF and WM indices, while controlling for 
the effect of age and sex. We hypothesized a positive relationship between gF 
and WM structure. Based on previous studies, we further hypothesized that this 
relationship was heavily influenced by the processing speed component of gF. We 
found a robust relationship between gF and DT-MRI measures of FA, RD and MD in 
all major WM tracts. Higher gF score was related to higher degree of WM 
integrity, in middle-aged as well as old individuals. Thus, the distributed 
relationship between gF and indices of WM microstructure is consistent with the 
notion that gF reflects efficient signaling between cortical areas. Furthermore, 
analysis of relationships between WM measures and gF components revealed an 
association with information processing speed and reasoning ability, but not 
with episodic memory. Thus, although all subcomponents loaded high on gF factor, 
the speed-related components were most strongly associated with DT-MRI-derived 
measures. These results suggest that DT-MRI can be used to parse gF.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2013.06.040
PMID: 23791837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


802. Brain Res. 2013 Aug 14;1526:44-53. doi: 10.1016/j.brainres.2013.05.048. Epub 
2013 Jun 20.

Behavioral and neural correlates of emotional intelligence: an event-related 
potentials (ERP) study.

Raz S(1), Dan O, Arad H, Zysberg L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, The Center for Psychobiological Research, The Max 
Stern Yezreel Valley College, Israel. sivanr@yvc.ac.il

The present study was aimed at identifying potential behavioral and neural 
correlates of emotional intelligence (EI) by using scalp-recorded Event-Related 
Potentials (ERPs). EI levels were defined according to both self-report 
questionnaire and a performance-based test. We identified ERP correlates of 
emotional processing by comparing ERPs elicited in trials using pleasant, 
neutral and unpleasant pictures. The effects of these emotion-inducing pictures 
were then compared across groups with low and high EI levels. Behavioral results 
revealed a significant valence×EI group interaction effect since valence ratings 
were lower for unpleasant pictures and higher for pleasant pictures in the high 
EI group compared with the low EI group. The groups did not differ with respect 
to neutral picture ratings. The ERP results indicate that participants with high 
EI exhibited significantly greater mean amplitudes of the P2 (200-300ms 
post-stimulus) and P3 (310-450ms post-stimulus) ERP components in response to 
emotional and neutral pictures, at posterior-parietal as well as at frontal 
scalp locations. This may suggest greater recruitment of resources to process 
all emotional and non-emotional stimuli at early and late processing stages 
among individuals with higher EI. The present study also underscores the 
usefulness of ERP methodology as a sensitive measure for the study of emotional 
stimuli processing in the research field of EI.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainres.2013.05.048
PMID: 23791921 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


803. Gene. 2013 Sep 15;527(1):421-5. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2013.05.079. Epub 2013 Jun 
20.

Mosaicism for FMR1 gene full mutation and intermediate allele in a female 
foetus: a postzygotic retraction event.

Ferreira SI(1), Pires LM, Ferrão J, Sá J, Serra A, Carreira IM.

Author information:
(1)Laboratório de Citogenética e Genómica, Faculdade de Medicina da Universidade 
de Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal.

Fragile X syndrome is caused by the expansion of an unstable CGG repeat in the 
5'UTR of FMR1 gene. The occurrence of mosaicism is not uncommon, especially in 
male patients, whereas in females it is not so often reported. Here we report a 
female foetus that was subject to prenatal diagnosis, because of her mother 
being a premutation carrier. The foetus was identified as being a mosaic for an 
intermediate allele and a full mutation of FMR1 gene, in the presence of a 
normal allele. The mosaic status was confirmed in three different tissues of the 
foetus--amniotic fluid, skin biopsy and blood--the last two obtained after 
pregnancy termination. Karyotype analysis and X-chromosome STR markers analysis 
do not support the mosaicism as inheritance of both maternal alleles. 
Oligonucleotide array-CGH excluded an imbalance that could contain the primer 
binding site with a different repeat size. The obtained results give compelling 
evidence for a postzygotic expansion mechanism where the foetus mosaic pattern 
originated from expansion of the mother's premutation into a full mutation and 
consequent regression to an intermediate allele in a proportion of cells. These 
events occurred in early embryogenesis before the commitment of cells into the 
different tissues, as the three tested tissues of the foetus have the same 
mosaic pattern. The couple has a son with Fragile X mental retardation syndrome 
and choose to terminate this pregnancy after genetic counselling.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2013.05.079
PMID: 23792063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


804. Stud Hist Philos Biol Biomed Sci. 2013 Dec;44(4 Pt B):679-87. doi: 
10.1016/j.shpsc.2013.05.015. Epub 2013 Jun 21.

Machine wanting.

McShea DW(1).

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Biology, Duke University, Box 90338, Durham, NC 27708-0338, USA. 
Electronic address: dmcshea@duke.edu.

Wants, preferences, and cares are physical things or events, not ideas or 
propositions, and therefore no chain of pure logic can conclude with a want, 
preference, or care. It follows that no pure-logic machine will ever want, 
prefer, or care. And its behavior will never be driven in the way that 
deliberate human behavior is driven, in other words, it will not be motivated or 
goal directed. Therefore, if we want to simulate human-style interactions with 
the world, we will need to first understand the physical structure of 
goal-directed systems. I argue that all such systems share a common nested 
structure, consisting of a smaller entity that moves within and is driven by a 
larger field that contains it. In such systems, the smaller contained entity is 
directed by the field, but also moves to some degree independently of it, 
allowing the entity to deviate and return, to show the plasticity and 
persistence that is characteristic of goal direction. If all this is right, then 
human want-driven behavior probably involves a behavior-generating mechanism 
that is contained within a neural field of some kind. In principle, for goal 
directedness generally, the containment can be virtual, raising the possibility 
that want-driven behavior could be simulated in standard computational systems. 
But there are also reasons to believe that goal-direction works better when 
containment is also physical, suggesting that a new kind of hardware may be 
necessary.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.shpsc.2013.05.015
PMID: 23792091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


805. Clin Biochem. 2013 Oct;46(15):1323-38. doi: 10.1016/j.clinbiochem.2013.06.012. 
Epub 2013 Jun 20.

Adverse drug reactions induced by valproic acid.

Nanau RM(1), Neuman MG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Faculty of Medicine, University of 
Toronto, In Vitro Drug Safety and Biotechnology, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

Valproic acid is a widely-used first-generation antiepileptic drug, prescribed 
predominantly in epilepsy and psychiatric disorders. VPA has good efficacy and 
pharmacoeconomic profiles, as well as a relatively favorable safety profile. 
However, adverse drug reactions have been reported in relation with valproic 
acid use, either as monotherapy or polytherapy with other antiepileptic drugs or 
antipsychotic drugs. This systematic review discusses valproic acid adverse drug 
reactions, in terms of hepatotoxicity, mitochondrial toxicity, hyperammonemic 
encephalopathy, hypersensitivity syndrome reactions, neurological toxicity, 
metabolic and endocrine adverse events, and teratogenicity.

Copyright © 2013 The Canadian Society of Clinical Chemists. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinbiochem.2013.06.012
PMID: 23792104 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


806. Neurosci Lett. 2013 Aug 9;549:45-50. doi: 10.1016/j.neulet.2013.05.067. Epub 
2013 Jun 20.

Neural activity in the posterior superior temporal region during eye contact 
perception correlates with autistic traits.

Hasegawa N(1), Kitamura H, Murakami H, Kameyama S, Sasagawa M, Egawa J, Endo T, 
Someya T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Niigata University Graduate School of Medical and 
Dental Sciences, 1-757 Asahimachi-dori, Chuo-ku, Niigata 951-8510, Japan.

The present study investigated the relationship between neural activity 
associated with gaze processing and autistic traits in typically developed 
subjects using magnetoencephalography. Autistic traits in 24 typically developed 
college students with normal intelligence were assessed using the Autism 
Spectrum Quotient (AQ). The Minimum Current Estimates method was applied to 
estimate the cortical sources of magnetic responses to gaze stimuli. These 
stimuli consisted of apparent motion of the eyes, displaying direct or averted 
gaze motion. Results revealed gaze-related brain activations in the 150-250 ms 
time window in the right posterior superior temporal sulcus (pSTS), and in the 
150-450 ms time window in medial prefrontal regions. In addition, the mean 
amplitude in the 150-250 ms time window in the right pSTS region was modulated 
by gaze direction, and its activity in response to direct gaze stimuli 
correlated with AQ score. pSTS activation in response to direct gaze is thought 
to be related to higher-order social processes. Thus, these results suggest that 
brain activity linking eye contact and social signals is associated with 
autistic traits in a typical population.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neulet.2013.05.067
PMID: 23792265 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


807. Neuroimage. 2013 Dec;83:318-28. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2013.06.044. Epub 2013 
Jun 21.

Resting state functional connectivity associated with trait emotional 
intelligence.

Takeuchi H(1), Taki Y, Nouchi R, Sekiguchi A, Hashizume H, Sassa Y, Kotozaki Y, 
Miyauchi CM, Yokoyama R, Iizuka K, Nakagawa S, Nagase T, Kunitoki K, Kawashima 
R.

Author information:
(1)Smart Ageing International Research Center, Institute of Development, Aging 
and Cancer, Tohoku University, Sendai, Japan. Electronic address: 
takehi@idac.tohoku.ac.jp.

Previous neuroimaging studies have suggested that trait emotional intelligence 
(TEI) is associated with components of the neural network involved in social 
cognition (SCN) and somatic marker circuitry (SMC). Our study is the first to 
investigate the association of TEI with resting-state functional connectivity 
(RSFC) between the key nodes of SCN and SMC [medial prefromtal cortex (mPFC) and 
bilateral anterior insula (AI), respectively] and other brain regions. We found 
that (a) the intrapersonal factor of TEI was negatively correlated with RSFC 
between mPFC and the anterior part of the right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex 
(DLPFC), (b) the TEI interpersonal factor score was positively correlated with 
RSFC between mPFC and the lingual gyrus, and (c) total TEI was positively 
correlated with RSFC between mPFC and the precuneus as well as (d) between the 
left AI and the middle part of the right DLPFC. Taken together with previous 
study findings, our findings can be comprehensively understood as neural 
mechanisms of SCN and SMC components are associated with TEI. In particular, the 
fluent interaction between SCN's two key nodes (mPFC and precuneus/PCC) [as well 
as between DMN's two key nodes] is suggested to be crucial for total TEI. Our 
study also indicated that (a) a clear functional separation between the two key 
nodes of the two major intrinsic networks, DMN and the task-positive network 
(mPFC and DLPFC), is important for higher intrapersonal TEI, (b) brain 
interactions involving vision-related areas (lingual gyrus) and the key node of 
SCN (mPFC) are important for interpersonal TEI, and (c) control of DLPFC over 
the key node of SMC (AI) is important for total TEI.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2013.06.044
PMID: 23792978 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


808. Cogn Process. 2014 Feb;15(1):77-84. doi: 10.1007/s10339-013-0574-0. Epub 2013 
Jun 21.

Can music lessons increase the performance of preschool children in IQ tests?

Kaviani H(1), Mirbaha H, Pournaseh M, Sagan O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Faculty of Health and Social Sciences, University 
of Bedfordshire, Park Square, Luton, LU1 3JU, UK, hossein.kaviani@beds.ac.uk.

The impact of music on human cognition has a distinguished history as a research 
topic in psychology. The focus of the present study was on investigating the 
effects of music instruction on the cognitive development of preschool children. 
From a sample of 154 preschool children of Tehran kindergartens, 60 children 
aged between 5 and 6 were randomly assigned to two groups, one receiving music 
lessons and the other (matched for sex, age and mother's educational level) not 
taking part in any music classes. Children were tested before the start of the 
course of music lessons and at its end with 4 subtests of the 
Tehran-Stanford-Binet Intelligence Scale (TSB). The experimental group 
participated in twelve 75-min weekly music lessons. Statistical analysis showed 
significant IQ increase in participants receiving music lessons, specifically on 
the TSB verbal reasoning and short-term memory subtests. The numerical and 
visual/abstract reasoning abilities did not differ for the two groups after 
lessons. These data support studies that found similar skills enhancements in 
preschool children, despite vast differences in the setting in which the 
instruction occurred. These findings appear to be consistent with some 
neuroimaging and neurological observations which are discussed in the paper.

DOI: 10.1007/s10339-013-0574-0
PMID: 23793255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


809. Biotechnol Lett. 2013 Oct;35(10):1541-9. doi: 10.1007/s10529-013-1249-8. Epub 
2013 Jun 21.

Specific primer design for the polymerase chain reaction.

Chuang LY(1), Cheng YH, Yang CH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, Institute of Biotechnology and Chemical 
Engineering, I-Shou University, Kaohsiung, Taiwan, chuang@isu.edu.tw.

The design of primers has a major impact on the success of PCR in relation to 
the specificity and yield of the amplified product. Here, we introduce the 
applications of PCR as well as the definition and characteristics for PCR primer 
design. Recent primer design tools based on Primer3, along with several 
computational intelligence-based primer design methods which have been applied 
in primer design, are also reviewed. In addition, characteristics of 
population-based methods used in primer design are discussed in detail.

DOI: 10.1007/s10529-013-1249-8
PMID: 23794048 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


810. Usp Fiziol Nauk. 2013 Apr-Jun;44(2):41-61.

[Perception of emotions in speech. A review of psychological and physiological 
research].

[Article in Russian]

Kislova OO, Rusalova MN.

The article is a review of the general concepts and approaches in research of 
recognition of emotions in speech: psychological concepts, principles and 
methods of study and physiological data in studies on animals and human. The 
concepts of emotional intelligence (ability to understand and recognize emotions 
of other people and to understand and regulate personal emotions), emotional 
hearing (ability to recognize emotions in speech) are discussed, general review 
of the paradigms is presented. The research of brain mechanisms of speech 
emotions differentiation is based on the study of local injuries and 
dysfunctions, along with the study on healthy subjects.

PMID: 23789352 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


811. Brain Inj. 2013;27(7-8):896-902. doi: 10.3109/02699052.2013.775486. Epub 2013 
Apr 5.

A preliminary investigation of moral reasoning and empathy after traumatic brain 
injury in adolescents.

Beauchamp MH(1), Dooley JJ, Anderson V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Montreal, Montreal, QC, Canada. 
miriam.beauchamp@umontreal.ca

PRIMARY OBJECTIVE: Traumatic brain injury (TBI) sustained during childhood can 
affect a number of socio-cognitive skills; however, little attention has focused 
on the integrity of moral reasoning in the assessment of post-TBI social 
sequelae and the role of empathy and intelligence on moral maturity.
RESEARCH DESIGN: In a quasi-experimental, cross-sectional research design, moral 
reasoning maturity and empathy in adolescents with mild-to-severe TBI (n = 25) 
were compared to typically-developing peers (n = 66).
METHODS AND PROCEDURES: Participants were administered the So-Moral and 
So-Mature, tasks of socio-moral reasoning and maturity, the Index of Empathy for 
Children and Adolescents, the Wechsler Abbreviated Scale of Intelligence and a 
demographic questionnaire.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND RESULTS: Participants with TBI had significantly lower levels 
of moral reasoning maturity. Further, adolescents with moderate-to-severe TBI 
had lower levels of empathy. Empathy correlated positively with moral reasoning 
abilities and, together with intellectual function, predicted a small, but 
significant proportion of moral reasoning outcome.
CONCLUSIONS: Youth who sustained TBI during childhood have poorer moral 
reasoning abilities than their non-injured peers, potentially placing them at 
risk for poor social decision-making and socially maladaptive behaviour. This 
can have a significant impact on long-term social functioning.

DOI: 10.3109/02699052.2013.775486
PMID: 23789866 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


812. BMJ Open. 2013 May 28;3(5):e002714. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2013-002714.

Evidence-based commissioning in the English NHS: who uses which sources of 
evidence? A survey 2010/2011.

Clarke A(1), Taylor-Phillips S, Swan J, Gkeredakis E, Mills P, Powell J, 
Nicolini D, Roginski C, Scarbrough H, Grove A.

Author information:
(1)Division of Health Sciences, Warwick Medical School, University of Warwick, 
Coventry, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To investigate types of evidence used by healthcare commissioners 
when making decisions and whether decisions were influenced by commissioners' 
experience, personal characteristics or role at work.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional survey of 345 National Health Service (NHS) staff 
members.
SETTING: The study was conducted across 11 English Primary Care Trusts between 
2010 and 2011.
PARTICIPANTS: A total of 440 staff involved in commissioning decisions and 
employed at NHS band 7 or above were invited to participate in the study. Of 
those, 345 (78%) completed all or a part of the survey.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Participants were asked to rate how important different 
sources of evidence (empirical or practical) were in a recent decision that had 
been made. Backwards stepwise logistic regression analyses were undertaken to 
assess the contributions of age, gender and professional background, as well as 
the years of experience in NHS commissioning, pay grade and work role.
RESULTS: The extent to which empirical evidence was used for commissioning 
decisions in the NHS varied according to the professional background. Only 50% 
of respondents stated that clinical guidelines and cost-effectiveness evidence 
were important for healthcare decisions. Respondents were more likely to report 
use of empirical evidence if they worked in Public Health in comparison to other 
departments (p<0.0005, commissioning and contracts OR   0.32, 95%CI   0.18 to 
0.57, finance OR  0.19, 95%CI 0.05 to 0.78, other departments OR 0.35, 95%CI 
0.17 to 0.71) or if they were female (OR 1.8 95% CI 1.01 to 3.1) rather than 
male. Respondents were more likely to report use of practical evidence if they 
were more senior within the organisation (pay grade 8b or higher OR 2.7, 95%CI 
1.4 to 5.3, p=0.004 in comparison to lower pay grades).
CONCLUSIONS: Those trained in Public Health appeared more likely to use external 
empirical evidence while those at higher pay scales were more likely to use 
practical evidence when making commissioning decisions. Clearly, National 
Institute for Clinical Excellence (NICE) guidance and government publications 
(eg, National Service Frameworks) are important for decision-making, but 
practical sources of evidence such as local intelligence, benchmarking data and 
expert advice are also influential. New Clinical Commissioning Groups will need 
a variety of different evidence sources and expert involvement to ensure that 
effective decisions are made for their populations.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2013-002714
PMCID: PMC3657651
PMID: 23793669


813. Iran J Pediatr. 2013 Jun;23(3):309-14.

Comparing response inhibition and flexibility for two components of executive 
functioning in children with autism spectrum disorder and normal children.

Pooragha F(1), Kafi SM, Sotodeh SO.

Author information:
(1)PhD Student of Educational Psychology, Semnan University, Semnan, Iran.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was investigating and comparing two components 
of executive functioning in children with high function autism with normal 
children.
METHODS: This study was correlation descriptive (causal-comparative). There were 
two groups, one consisted of 15 participants of children with high function 
autism disorder (Intelligence quotient [IQ]>80) and the other consisted of 15 
normal children, all age and education matched. They were compared with two 
neuro-cognitive tests, Color Word Stroop and Wisconsin Card Sorting, and one IQ 
test called Ravens Progressive Matrices test.
FINDINGS: Analysis of data showed significant difference in both executive 
functionings, response inhibition (Stroop) and flexibility (Wisconsin Card 
Sorting) between normal children and children with autism disorder, but there 
was no significant relation between age and IQ and executive functioning in 
children with autism.
CONCLUSION: The results showed that children with autism disorder have deficits 
in executive functions regardless of their IQ level and it can be attributed to 
the symptoms of autism spectrum disorders.

PMCID: PMC3684476
PMID: 23795254


814. J Pers Assess. 2014;96(1):46-52. doi: 10.1080/00223891.2013.806327. Epub 2013 
Jun 24.

Openness to experience, intellect, and cognitive ability.

DeYoung CG(1), Quilty LC, Peterson JB, Gray JR.

Author information:
(1)a Department of Psychology , University of Minnesota.

An instrument designed to separate 2 midlevel traits within each of the Big Five 
(the Big Five Aspect Scales [BFAS]) was used to clarify the relation of 
personality to cognitive ability. The BFAS measures Openness to Experience and 
Intellect as separate (although related) traits, and refers to the broader Big 
Five trait as Openness/Intellect. In 2 samples (N = 125 and 189), Intellect was 
independently associated with general intelligence (g) and with verbal and 
nonverbal intelligence about equally. Openness was independently associated only 
with verbal intelligence. Implications of these findings are discussed for the 
empirical and conceptual relations of intelligence to personality and for the 
mechanisms potentially underlying both Openness/Intellect and cognitive ability.

DOI: 10.1080/00223891.2013.806327
PMID: 23795918 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


815. Med Teach. 2013 Sep;35(9):727-30. doi: 10.3109/0142159X.2013.801945. Epub 2013 
Jun 24.

The Undergraduate Medical and Health Sciences Admissions Test: what is it 
measuring?

Griffin B(1), Carless S, Wilson I.

Author information:
(1)Macquarie University, Australia. Barbara.griffin@mq.edu.au

BACKGROUND: The Undergraduate Medical and Health Sciences Admissions Test (UMAT) 
is used to select medical students in Australia and New Zealand but empirical 
evidence of its construct validity has never been reported.
AIMS: To identify the underlying constructs assessed in each of the three 
sections of the UMAT. Based on conclusions from an early qualitative study 
(Mercer & Chiavaroli 2006), it was expected that Section 1 scores would 
correlate with scores obtained from standard measures of cognitive ability 
(verbal and numeric reasoning), Section 2 scores would correlate with emotional 
intelligence, and Section 3 scores would be most strongly related to abstract or 
non-verbal reasoning ability.
METHOD: Final year high school students (n = 432) completed tests of numerical, 
verbal, and non-verbal cognitive ability, and emotional intelligence. 
Correlations and multiple regressions assessed the relationship of these tests 
with scores on each section of the UMAT.
RESULTS: UMAT Section 1 was significantly related to verbal, non-verbal, and 
numerical reasoning tests. Section 2 was significantly related to emotional 
intelligence and verbal reasoning, but the majority of variance in this 
section's scores remained unexplained. Section 3 scores significantly correlated 
with non-verbal and numerical reasoning.
CONCLUSIONS: The UMAT Sections 1 and 3 appear to be tests of cognitive 
abilities. Further research is required to identify the constructs being 
measured by Section 2.

DOI: 10.3109/0142159X.2013.801945
PMID: 23795956 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


816. Epilepsy Res. 2013 Sep;106(1-2):200-10. doi: 10.1016/j.eplepsyres.2013.05.003. 
Epub 2013 Jun 21.

Epileptic spasms in tuberous sclerosis complex.

Hsieh DT(1), Jennesson MM, Thiele EA.

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Epilepsy Program, Department of Neurology, Massachusetts General 
Hospital, 175 Cambridge Street, Suite 340, Boston, MA 02114-2796, USA. 
david.t.hsieh.mil@mail.mil

PURPOSE: To characterize epileptic spasms (ES) occurring after the age of two 
years in patients with tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC), particularly treatment 
response to vigabatrin (VGB), which is extremely effective for infantile spasms 
(IS) in TSC.
METHODS: The authors retrospectively reviewed 19 patients with TSC and ES. 
Medical records were assessed for clinical and treatment data, neurocognitive, 
EEG, MRI data, and genetic analyses.
RESULTS: Of 391 patients with TSC, 19 (4.8%) had ES. Of those with detailed 
clinical data, six had infantile spasms that persisted after 2 years old, six 
recurred after an initial remission of infantile spasms (range 2-24 years old), 
and four occurred de novo over the age of two (range 2-20 years old). All 
concurrently had other seizure types. One had hypsarrhythmia on EEG. All had 
brain MRI stigmata typical of TSC. Thirteen had a mutation in TSC2, and one in 
TSC1. Six patients became spasm-free with medication treatment, including four 
with VGB, one with VGB in combination with the low glycemic index dietary 
treatment, and one with felbamate. Five became spasm-free after epilepsy 
surgery. VGB was not effective for seven patients. The majority continued to 
have refractory epilepsy.
CONCLUSIONS: ES are not uncommon in patients with TSC, especially those with 
TSC2 mutations. ES in TSC occur in the setting of other seizure types and 
refractory epilepsy. Hypsarrhythmia is rare. VGB can be effective, but the 
success of VGB for ES in TSC is not equivalent to that of IS in TSC.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eplepsyres.2013.05.003
PMID: 23796861 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


817. Dev Disabil Res Rev. 2013;17(3):260-8. doi: 10.1002/ddrr.1119.

Neuropsychological outcomes in fatty acid oxidation disorders: 85 cases detected 
by newborn screening.

Waisbren SE(1), Landau Y, Wilson J, Vockley J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Children's Hospital Boston and Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA. susan.waisbren@childrens.harvard.edu

Mitochondrial fatty acid oxidation disorders include conditions in which the 
transport of activated acyl-Coenzyme A (CoA) into the mitochondria or 
utilization of these substrates is disrupted or blocked. This results in a 
deficit in the conversion of fat into energy. Most patients with fatty acid 
oxidation defects are now identified through newborn screening by tandem mass 
spectrometry. With earlier identification and preventative treatments, mortality 
and morbidity rates have improved. However, in the absence of severe health and 
neurological effects from these disorders, subtle developmental delays or 
neuropsychological deficits have been noted. Medical records were reviewed to 
identify outcomes in 85 children with FAOD's diagnosed through newborn screening 
and followed at one metabolic center. Overall, 54% of these children identified 
through newborn screening experienced developmental challenges. Speech delay or 
relative weakness in language was noted in 26 children (31%) and motor delays 
were noted in 24 children (29%). The majority of the 46 children receiving 
psychological evaluations performed well within the average range, with only 11% 
scoring <85 on developmental or intelligence tests. These results highlight the 
importance of screening children with fatty acid oxidation disorders to identify 
those with language, motor, or cognitive delay. Although expanded newborn 
screening dramatically changes the health and developmental outcomes in many 
children with fatty acid oxidation disorders, it also complicates the 
interpretation of biochemical and molecular findings and raises questions about 
the effectiveness or necessity of treatment in a large number of cases. Only by 
systematically evaluating developmental and neuropsychological outcomes using 
standardized methods will the true implications of newborn screening, laboratory 
results, and treatments for neurocognitive outcome in these disorders become 
clear.

Copyright © 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc., a Wiley company.

DOI: 10.1002/ddrr.1119
PMCID: PMC4137760
PMID: 23798014 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


818. G Ital Med Lav Ergon. 2013 Jan-Mar;35(1):32-5.

[Intelligence and neurocognitive tests among students living in a industrialized 
region of Sardinia with relatively low blood levels of lead].

[Article in Italian]

Carta P(1), Aru G, Carta L, Carta R, Ibba A.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Sanità Pubblica - Sezione di Medicina del Lavoro, Universith 
di Cagliari. cartaplinio@gmail.com

In several recent epidemiological studies blood lead levels (BLLs) even below 
the current CDC intervention level of 10 microg/dl have been associated with 
reduced neurocognitive capacities of children, with no clear evidence of a 
"safe" threshold. We analyzed the relationship between the BLLs and the 
neurocognitive capacities of 205 Sardinian students aged 11 to 15 years, using 2 
tests of the Swedish Performance Evaluating System (SPES) and the full-scale 
Intelligence Quotient (IQ) derived from the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for 
Children (WISC). The studied population included 104 children (61 males and 43 
females) living in Portoscuso, a town 2 Km far from a lead smelter (mean BLLs: 
5.98 +/- 2.2; max 11.5 microg/dl), and 101 age-matched students (55 males and 46 
females) living in Sant'Antioco, a town about 20 Km far from the same smelter 
(mean BLLs: 2.08 +/- 0.8; max 4.5 microg/dl). Subjects with BLLs above 4 
microg/dl performed worse in the SPES tests and scored about 5.0 points less on 
the full-scale IQ compared to the students with lower BLLs. The adjusted 
regression coefficients derived from the multivariate analysis showed that 
higher BLLs were significantly associated with worse performances in the SPES 
tests and with reduced IQ (0.94 points for each microg/dl of BLL). This study 
confirms the potential neurotoxicity of low-levels of lead suggesting the need 
of lowering the actual CDC "limit of concern" for children to values lower than 
4 microg/dl, improving at the same time the environmental primary prevention for 
limiting the lead exposure of subjects living near the lead smelter.

PMID: 23798232 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


819. Indian Pediatr. 2013 Sep;50(9):853-7. doi: 10.1007/s13312-013-0236-4. Epub 2013 
Apr 5.

Pune low birth weight study - birth to adulthood - cognitive development.

Chaudhari S(1), Otiv M, Khairnar B, Pandit A, Hoge M, Sayyad M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, KEM Hospital, Pune, Maharashtra, India. 
Correspondence to: Dr Sudha Chaudhari, Consultant, Division of Neonatology, 
Department of Pediatrics, KEM Hospital Research Centre, Pune 411 011, 
Maharashtra, India. kemhrc@vsnl.net.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cognitive development of non-handicapped low birth 
weight (LBW) infants at 18 years.
DESIGN: Prospective cohort study.
SETTING: Infants born between 1987 - 1989 with birth weight less than 2000 g and 
discharged from a neonatal special care unit were followed up till the age of 18 
years.
METHODS: The intelligence quotient (IQ) was determined by Ravens progressive 
matrices. Assessment of adjustment and aptitude was done.
RESULTS: The cohort of 161 LBW infants was divided into three groups according 
to their gestation - preterm SGA (n=61), full term SGA (n=30) and preterm AGA 
(n=70). 71 full term AGA infants served as controls. The IQ of the study group 
(Percentile 39.3) was significantly lower than that of controls (Percentile 
54.9) (P=0.002). Preterm SGA subjects had the lowest IQ (Percentile 35.5), 
though just within normal limits. Males from the study group had significantly 
lower IQ than male controls (P=0.03). The IQ of PTSGA subjects of college 
educated mothers (P=0.004) and belonging to higher socio-economic class (P=0.04) 
was significantly higher. On the differential aptitude test, PTSGA subjects were 
poor in speed and mechanical reasoning. The 18 year IQ could be best predicted 
by IQ at 6 and 12 years.
CONCLUSION: Preterm SGA children have the lowest IQ at 18 years, males have 
lower IQ. Maternal education and socio-economic status have great impact on 
cognitive development. Good prediction of the 18 year IQ can be done by the 6 
and 12 year IQ.

DOI: 10.1007/s13312-013-0236-4
PMID: 23798624 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


820. Mol Autism. 2013 Jun 24;4(1):20. doi: 10.1186/2040-2392-4-20.

Episodic memory retrieval for story characters in high-functioning autism.

Komeda H(1), Kosaka H, Saito DN, Inohara K, Munesue T, Ishitobi M, Sato M, 
Okazawa H.

Author information:
(1)The Hakubi Center for Advanced Research, Kyoto University, Kyoto, Japan. 
komeda.hidetsugu.5w@kyoto-u.ac.jp.

BACKGROUND: The objective of this study was to examine differences in episodic 
memory retrieval between individuals with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and 
typically developing (TD) individuals. Previous studies have shown that 
personality similarities between readers and characters facilitated reading 
comprehension. Highly extraverted participants read stories featuring 
extraverted protagonists more easily and judged the outcomes of such stories 
more rapidly than did less extraverted participants. Similarly, highly neurotic 
participants judged the outcomes of stories with neurotic protagonists more 
rapidly than did participants with low levels of neuroticism. However, the 
impact of the similarity effect on memory retrieval remains unclear. This study 
tested our 'similarity hypothesis', namely that memory retrieval is enhanced 
when readers with ASD and TD readers read stories featuring protagonists with 
ASD and with characteristics associated with TD individuals, respectively.
METHODS: Eighteen Japanese individuals (one female) with high-functioning ASD 
(aged 17 to 40 years) and 17 age- and intelligence quotient (IQ)-matched 
Japanese (one female) TD participants (aged 22 to 40 years) read 24 stories; 12 
stories featured protagonists with ASD characteristics, and the other 12 
featured TD protagonists. Participants read a single sentence at a time and 
pressed a spacebar to advance to the next sentence. After reading all 24 
stories, they were asked to complete a recognition task about the target 
sentence in each story.
RESULTS: To investigate episodic memory in ASD, we analyzed encoding based on 
the reading times for and readability of the stories and retrieval processes 
based on the accuracy of and response times for sentence recognition. Although 
the results showed no differences between ASD and TD groups in encoding 
processes, they did reveal inter-group differences in memory retrieval. Although 
individuals with ASD demonstrated the same level of accuracy as did TD 
individuals, their patterns of memory retrieval differed with respect to 
response times.
CONCLUSIONS: Individuals with ASD more effectively retrieved ASD-congruent than 
ASD-incongruent sentences, and TD individuals retrieved stories with TD more 
effectively than stories with ASD protagonists. Thus, similarity between reader 
and story character had different effects on memory retrieval in the ASD and TD 
groups.

DOI: 10.1186/2040-2392-4-20
PMCID: PMC3695882
PMID: 23800273


821. Arch Clin Neuropsychol. 2013 Nov;28(7):633-9. doi: 10.1093/arclin/act038. Epub 
2013 Jun 25.

Estimated costs of malingered disability.

Chafetz M(1), Underhill J.

Author information:
(1)Independent Practice, Neuropsychology, New Orleans, LA, USA.

The feigning of disabling illness for the purpose of disability compensation, or 
"malingering," is common in Social Security Disability examinations, occurring 
in 45.8%-59.7% of adult cases. In this study, we estimated the costs of 
malingering based on mental disorder data published by the Social Security 
Administration. At the most widely accepted base rate of malingering in 
medicolegal cases involving external incentive, costs were high, totaling $20.02 
billion in 2011 for adult mental disorder claimants. Moreover, these figures 
clearly underestimate the costs of the larger problem with feigned disability in 
both adults and children. We urge a change in Social Security policies to allow 
the use of validity testing in the examination for disability claims.

DOI: 10.1093/arclin/act038
PMID: 23800432 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


822. Mol Syndromol. 2013 Apr;4(4):203-6. doi: 10.1159/000346842. Epub 2013 Feb 13.

Mucopolysaccharidosis Type II and the G374sp Mutation.

Martínez-Quintana E(1), Rodríguez-González F.

Author information:
(1)Complejo Hospitalario Universitario Insular-Materno Infantil, Las Palmas de 
Gran Canaria, Spain.

Mucopolysaccharidosis type II (MPS II), also known as Hunter syndrome, is a 
rare, X-linked disease caused by a deficiency of the lysosomal enzyme 
iduronate-2-sulfatase, which catalyses a step in the catabolism of 
glycosaminoglycans resulting in accumulation of heparan and dermatan sulfate in 
many organs and tissues. This accumulation favors the appearance of neurologic 
involvement, severe airway obstruction, skeletal deformities, and 
cardiomyopathy, especially mitral and aortic valve regurgitation. In severe 
cases, obstructive airway disease and cardiac failure due to valvular 
dysfunction are the most common causes of death within the second decade of 
life. However, in mild cases, intelligence remains normal, stature is almost 
normal and death usually occurs due to cardiac failure in the fourth decade of 
life. We report the presentation, diagnosis, management, and outcome of 2 
siblings with MPS II and the G374sp mutation at the nucleotide c.1246 of the 
gene encoding for the iduronate-2-sulfatase.

DOI: 10.1159/000346842
PMCID: PMC3666454
PMID: 23801937


823. Front Hum Neurosci. 2013 Jun 20;7:292. doi: 10.3389/fnhum.2013.00292. 
eCollection 2013.

The largest human cognitive performance dataset reveals insights into the 
effects of lifestyle factors and aging.

Sternberg DA(1), Ballard K, Hardy JL, Katz B, Doraiswamy PM, Scanlon M.

Author information:
(1)Lumos Labs Inc. San Francisco, CA, USA.

Making new breakthroughs in understanding the processes underlying human 
cognition may depend on the availability of very large datasets that have not 
historically existed in psychology and neuroscience. Lumosity is a web-based 
cognitive training platform that has grown to include over 600 million cognitive 
training task results from over 35 million individuals, comprising the largest 
existing dataset of human cognitive performance. As part of the Human Cognition 
Project, Lumosity's collaborative research program to understand the human mind, 
Lumos Labs researchers and external research collaborators have begun to explore 
this dataset in order uncover novel insights about the correlates of cognitive 
performance. This paper presents two preliminary demonstrations of some of the 
kinds of questions that can be examined with the dataset. The first example 
focuses on replicating known findings relating lifestyle factors to baseline 
cognitive performance in a demographically diverse, healthy population at a much 
larger scale than has previously been available. The second example examines a 
question that would likely be very difficult to study in laboratory-based and 
existing online experimental research approaches at a large scale: specifically, 
how learning ability for different types of cognitive tasks changes with age. We 
hope that these examples will provoke the imagination of researchers who are 
interested in collaborating to answer fundamental questions about human 
cognitive performance.

DOI: 10.3389/fnhum.2013.00292
PMCID: PMC3687527
PMID: 23801955


824. Soc Neurosci. 2013;8(4):334-46. doi: 10.1080/17470919.2013.807300.

Emotional intelligence correlates with functional responses to dynamic changes 
in facial trustworthiness.

Killgore WD(1), Schwab ZJ, Tkachenko O, Webb CA, DelDonno SR, Kipman M, Rauch 
SL, Weber M.

Author information:
(1)Social, Cognitive and Affective Neuroscience Lab, McLean Hospital, Harvard 
Medical School, Belmont, MA 02478, USA. killgore@mclean.harvard.edu

Emotional intelligence (EI) refers to a constellation of traits, competencies, 
or abilities that allow individuals to understand emotional information and 
successfully navigate and solve social/emotional problems. While little is known 
about the neurobiological substrates that underlie EI, some evidence suggests 
that these capacities may involve a core neurocircuitry involved in emotional 
decision-making that includes the ventromedial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC), 
anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), insula, and amygdala. In a sample of 39 healthy 
volunteers (22 men; 17 women), scores on the Bar-On EQ-i (a trait/mixed model of 
EI) and Mayer-Salovey-Caruso Emotional Intelligence Test (MSCEIT; an ability 
model of EI) were correlated with functional magnetic resonance imaging 
responses during brief presentations of moving facial expressions that changed 
in the level of perceived trustworthiness. Core emotion neurocircuitry was 
responsive to dynamic changes in facial features, regardless of whether they 
reflected increases or decreases in apparent trustworthiness. In response to 
facial movements indicating decreasing trustworthiness, MSCEIT correlated 
positively with functional responses of the vmPFC and rostral ACC, whereas the 
EQ-i was unrelated to regional activation. Systematic differences in EI ability 
appear to be significantly related to the responsiveness of the vmPFC and 
rostral ACC to facial movements suggesting potential trustworthiness.

DOI: 10.1080/17470919.2013.807300
PMID: 23802123 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


825. Chronobiol Int. 2013 Aug;30(7):919-29. doi: 10.3109/07420528.2013.790041. Epub 
2013 Jun 26.

Association of eveningness with problem behavior in children: a mediating role 
of impaired sleep.

van der Heijden KB(1), de Sonneville LM, Swaab H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Child and Adolescent Studies, Leiden Institute for 
Brain and Cognition, Leiden University, Leiden, The Netherlands. 
kbheijden@fsw.leidenuniv.nl

Eveningness, the preference of being active during the evening in contrast to 
the morning, has been associated with markedly increased problem behavior in 
adolescents; however, the underlying mechanisms are still not understood. This 
study investigates the association of eveningness with behavior and cognition in 
children aged 7-12 yrs, and explores the potential mediating role of a variety 
of sleep factors. Parents of 333 school-aged children (mean age=9.97 yrs; 55% 
girls) completed a sleep log and several questionnaires regarding eveningness, 
sleep habits, and behavioral problems. Intellectual abilities, working memory, 
and attention were assessed using the short-form of the Wechsler Intelligence 
Scale for Children (WISC) and subtasks of the Amsterdam Neuropsychological 
Tasks. Results showed that eveningness predicted behavioral problems over and 
above the effects of demographic variables (age, sex, and familial socioeconomic 
status) (p=0.003). Significant partial correlation was found for eveningness and 
sleep duration during weekdays (p=0.005), and not during weekends. Furthermore, 
evening orientation was associated with a reduced rested feeling on weekday 
mornings (p<0.001), but not on weekends. The most important sleep characteristic 
showing association with many cognitive and behavioral measures was the 
subjective feeling upon awakening-particularly during weekdays. Bootstrap 
mediation analyses demonstrated that sleep significantly mediated the effects of 
eveningness on behavioral problems, working memory, and sustained attention. 
Interestingly, mediation was only significant through the subjective feeling 
upon awakening on weekdays. The current findings indicate that the subjective 
feeling upon awakening is a much better predictor of daytime problems than 
subjective sleep quantity. Furthermore, the data suggest that negative outcomes 
in evening types are due to the fact that they wake up before their circadian 
drive for arousal and prior to complete dissipation of sleep pressure during 
weekdays. Interventions that target the misalignment of endogenous circadian 
rhythms and imposed rhythms are discussed.

DOI: 10.3109/07420528.2013.790041
PMID: 23802509 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


826. J Psychopharmacol. 2013 Sep;27(9):779-89. doi: 10.1177/0269881113492899. Epub 
2013 Jun 25.

Electrophysiological indices of response inhibition in human polydrug users.

Roberts CA(1), Fairclough S, Fisk JE, Tames FT, Montgomery C.

Author information:
(1)School of Natural Sciences and Psychology, Liverpool John Moores University, 
Liverpool, UK.

Previous research in ecstasy users suggests impairment of various executive 
functions. In general, the executive function of response inhibition appears 
unaffected by ecstasy use. Nonetheless, it remains a possibility that cognitive 
tasks alone are not sensitive enough to pick up subtle changes in function. The 
current study sought to investigate behavioural measures of response inhibition 
and their electrophysiological correlates in drug users. Twenty ecstasy polydrug 
users, 20 non-ecstasy polydrug users and 20 drug naïve controls were recruited. 
Participants completed questionnaires about their background drug use, sleep 
quality, fluid intelligence and mood state. Each individual also completed a 
Go/NoGo response inhibition task whilst electroencephalography (EEG) measures 
were recorded. Analysis of variance (ANOVA) revealed that there were no 
between-group differences on the behavioural measure of response inhibition. 
Multivariate analysis of variance (MANOVA) revealed no main effect of group 
across midline electrodes for the P3, N2 and P2 components. Univariate ANOVA 
revealed significant between-group differences in the P2 component with the 
ecstasy user group having a significantly higher mean amplitude than drug naïve 
controls at two midline frontal electrodes: at Fz and significantly higher mean 
amplitude than both control groups at FCz. The present study provides evidence 
of atypical early processing in ecstasy users that is suggestive of compensatory 
mechanisms ameliorating any behavioural differences.

DOI: 10.1177/0269881113492899
PMID: 23803689 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


827. Am J Clin Nutr. 2013 Aug;98(2):403-12. doi: 10.3945/ajcn.112.040766. Epub 2013 
Jun 26.

Long-term effects of LCPUFA supplementation on childhood cognitive outcomes.

Colombo J(1), Carlson SE, Cheatham CL, Shaddy DJ, Kerling EH, Thodosoff JM, 
Gustafson KM, Brez C.

Author information:
(1)Schiefelbusch Life Span Institute and Department of Psychology, University of 
Kansas, Kansas City, KS 66160, USA. scarlson@kumc.edu

BACKGROUND: The effect of long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acid (LCPUFA) intake 
on cognitive development is controversial. Most randomized trials have assessed 
cognition at 18 mo, although significant development of cognitive abilities 
(early executive function) emerge later.
OBJECTIVE: The objective was to evaluate cognition beyond 18 mo and longitudinal 
cognitive change from 18 mo to 6 y in children who were fed variable amounts of 
docosahexaenoic acid (0.32%, 0.64%, and 0.96% of total fatty acids) and 
arachidonic acid (ARA; 0.64%) compared with children who were not fed LCPUFA as 
infants.
DESIGN: Eighty-one children (19 placebo, 62 LCPUFA) who participated in a 
double-blind, randomized trial of LCPUFA supplementation as infants were 
re-enrolled at 18 mo and tested every 6 mo until 6 y on age-appropriate 
standardized and specific cognitive tests.
RESULTS: LCPUFA supplementation did not influence performance on standardized 
tests of language and performance at 18 mo; however, significant positive 
effects were observed from 3 to 5 y on rule-learning and inhibition tasks, the 
Peabody Picture Vocabulary Test at 5 y, and the Weschler Primary Preschool 
Scales of Intelligence at 6 y. Effects of LCPUFAs were not found on tasks of 
spatial memory, simple inhibition, or advanced problem solving.
CONCLUSIONS: The data from this relatively small trial suggest that, although 
the effects of LCPUFAs may not always be evident on standardized developmental 
tasks at 18 mo, significant effects may emerge later on more specific or 
fine-grained tasks. The results imply that studies of nutrition and cognitive 
development should be powered to continue through early childhood. This parent 
trial was registered at clinicaltrials.gov as NCT00266825.

DOI: 10.3945/ajcn.112.040766
PMCID: PMC3712550
PMID: 23803884 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


828. Chaos Solitons Fractals. 2013 May;50(100):100-114. doi: 
10.1016/j.chaos.2013.01.011.

Algorithmic requirements for swarm intelligence in differently coupled 
collective systems.

Stradner J(1), Thenius R, Zahadat P, Hamann H, Crailsheim K, Schmickl T.

Author information:
(1)Artificial Life Laboratory at the Department of Zoology, Karl-Franzens 
University Graz, Universitätsplatz 2, A-8010 Graz, Austria.

Swarm systems are based on intermediate connectivity between individuals and 
dynamic neighborhoods. In natural swarms self-organizing principles bring their 
agents to that favorable level of connectivity. They serve as interesting 
sources of inspiration for control algorithms in swarm robotics on the one hand, 
and in modular robotics on the other hand. In this paper we demonstrate and 
compare a set of bio-inspired algorithms that are used to control the collective 
behavior of swarms and modular systems: BEECLUST, AHHS (hormone controllers), 
FGRN (fractal genetic regulatory networks), and VE (virtual embryogenesis). We 
demonstrate how such bio-inspired control paradigms bring their host systems to 
a level of intermediate connectivity, what delivers sufficient robustness to 
these systems for collective decentralized control. In parallel, these 
algorithms allow sufficient volatility of shared information within these 
systems to help preventing local optima and deadlock situations, this way 
keeping those systems flexible and adaptive in dynamic non-deterministic 
environments.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chaos.2013.01.011
PMCID: PMC3688318
PMID: 23805030


829. PLoS One. 2013 Jun 21;8(6):e64601. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0064601. Print 
2013.

Phrasal Paraphrase Based Question Reformulation for Archived Question Retrieval.

Zhang Y(1), Zhang WN, Lu K, Ji R, Wang F, Liu T.

Author information:
(1)Research Center for Social Computing and Information Retrieval, Harbin 
Institute of Technology, Harbin City, Heilongjiang, China.

Erratum in
    PLoS One. 2013 Sep 23;8(9):null.

Lexical gap in cQA search, resulted by the variability of languages, has been 
recognized as an important and widespread phenomenon. To address the problem, 
this paper presents a question reformulation scheme to enhance the question 
retrieval model by fully exploring the intelligence of paraphrase in 
phrase-level. It compensates for the existing paraphrasing research in a 
suitable granularity, which either falls into fine-grained lexical-level or 
coarse-grained sentence-level. Given a question in natural language, our scheme 
first detects the involved key-phrases by jointly integrating the 
corpus-dependent knowledge and question-aware cues. Next, it automatically 
extracts the paraphrases for each identified key-phrase utilizing multiple 
online translation engines, and then selects the most relevant reformulations 
from a large group of question rewrites, which is formed by full permutation and 
combination of the generated paraphrases. Extensive evaluations on a real world 
data set demonstrate that our model is able to characterize the complex 
questions and achieves promising performance as compared to the state-of-the-art 
methods.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0064601
PMCID: PMC3689745
PMID: 23805178 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


830. Hemoglobin. 2013;37(5):467-76. doi: 10.3109/03630269.2013.806330. Epub 2013 Jun 
28.

Comparison between β-thalassemia minor and normal individuals using the Wechsler 
Adult Intelligence Scale.

Zangiabadi N(1), Yarahmadi F, Darekordi A, Shabani M, Dadgar MM.

Author information:
(1)Neuroscience Research Centre, Kerman University of Medical Sciences, Kerman, 
Iran. nzangiabadi1@gmail.com

The present study aimed at investigating and comparing patients suffering from 
β-thalassemia (β-thal) minor with normal individuals in regard to their 
performances in the short version of the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale 
(WAIS) test. Patients with β-thal minor are carriers of β-thal genes. They have 
mild microcytic and hypochromic anemia and are usually asymptomatic. In this 
cross-sectional study, a total of 60 individuals were divided into two equal 
groups of β-thal minor and normal subjects; they were then studied by the WAIS 
subscales. The mean performance scores of the normal group in the subtests of 
arithmetic and vocabulary (p <0.01) and picture completion (p <0.05) were higher 
than those of the thalassemia group. The mean performance score and ability of 
the normal group on the verbal scale was higher in comparison to the thalassemia 
group (p <0.05), while on the non verbal scale, there was no significant 
difference between the two groups. It can be concluded that β-thal minor 
negatively influences verbal fluency, reasoning and conceptualization, and 
sequencing tasks, perceptual skill, prediction of social situations and abstract 
thinking.

DOI: 10.3109/03630269.2013.806330
PMID: 23806085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


831. Prog Biophys Mol Biol. 2013 Sep;113(1):216-28. doi: 
10.1016/j.pbiomolbio.2013.06.001. Epub 2013 Jun 24.

On some recent insights in Integral Biomathics.

Simeonov PL(1), Gomez-Ramirez J, Siregar P.

Author information:
(1)JSRC, Berlin, Germany. Electronic address: plamen@simeio.org.

This paper summarizes the results in Integral Biomathics obtained to this moment 
and provides an outlook for future research in the field.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pbiomolbio.2013.06.001
PMID: 23806283 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


832. Int J Pharm. 2013 Sep 10;453(2):641-7. doi: 10.1016/j.ijpharm.2013.06.036. Epub 
2013 Jun 24.

Using machine learning for improving knowledge on antibacterial effect of 
bioactive glass.

Echezarreta-López MM(1), Landin M.

Author information:
(1)Departamento Farmacia y Tecnología Farmacéutica, Facultad de Farmacia, Campus 
Vida, Universidad de Santiago, Santiago de Compostela 15782, Spain. 
mmagdalena.echezarreta@usc.es

The aim of this work was to find relationships between critical bioactive glass 
characteristics and their antibacterial behaviour using an artificial 
intelligence tool. A large dataset including ingredients and process variables 
of the bioactive glasses production, bacterial characteristics and 
microbiological experimental conditions was generated from literature and 
analyzed by neurofuzzy logic technology. Our findings allow an explanation on 
the variability in antibacterial behaviour found by different authors and to 
obtain general conclusions about critical parameters of bioactive glasses to be 
considered in order to achieve activity against some of the most common skin and 
implant surgery pathogens.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijpharm.2013.06.036
PMID: 23806814 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


833. Brain Cogn. 2013 Aug;82(3):329-36. doi: 10.1016/j.bandc.2013.05.007. Epub 2013 
Jun 24.

Intact emotion-cognition interaction in schizophrenia patients and first-degree 
relatives: evidence from an emotional antisaccade task.

Aichert DS(1), Derntl B, Wöstmann NM, Groß JK, Dehning S, Cerovecki A, Möller 
HJ, Habel U, Riedel M, Ettinger U.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München, Munich, 
Germany.

Schizophrenia patients have deficits in cognitive control as well as in a number 
of emotional domains. The antisaccade task is a measure of cognitive control 
that requires the inhibition of a reflex-like eye movement to a peripheral 
stimulus. Antisaccade performance has been shown to be modulated by the 
emotional content of the peripheral stimuli, with emotional stimuli leading to 
higher error rates than neutral stimuli, reflecting an implicit emotion 
processing effect. The aim of the present study was to investigate the impact on 
antisaccade performance of threat-related emotional facial stimuli in 
schizophrenia patients, first-degree relatives of schizophrenia patients and 
healthy controls. Fifteen patients, 22 relatives and 26 controls, matched for 
gender, age and verbal intelligence, carried out an antisaccade task with 
pictures of faces displaying disgusted, fearful and neutral expressions as 
peripheral stimuli. We observed higher antisaccade error rates in schizophrenia 
patients compared to first-degree relatives and controls. Relatives and controls 
did not differ significantly from each other. Antisaccade error rate was 
influenced by the emotional nature of the stimuli: participants had higher 
antisaccade error rates in response to fearful faces compared to neutral and 
disgusted faces. As this emotional influence on cognitive control did not differ 
between groups we conclude that implicit processing of emotional faces is intact 
in patients with schizophrenia and those at risk for the illness.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bandc.2013.05.007
PMID: 23807237 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


834. Eur Child Adolesc Psychiatry. 2014 Apr;23(4):187-96. doi: 
10.1007/s00787-013-0444-4. Epub 2013 Jun 27.

Behavioral problems in school-aged hearing-impaired children: the influence of 
sociodemographic, linguistic, and medical factors.

Theunissen SC(1), Rieffe C(2)(3), Kouwenberg M(2), De Raeve LJ(4), Soede W(5), 
Briaire JJ(5), Frijns JH(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology and Head and Neck Surgery, Leiden 
University Medical Center, PO Box 9600, 2300 RC, Leiden, The Netherlands. 
s.c.p.m.theunissen@lumc.nl.
(2)Department of Developmental Psychology, Leiden University, Leiden, The 
Netherlands.
(3)Dutch Foundation for the Deaf and Hard of Hearing Child, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(4)KIDS, Royal Institute for the Deaf, Hasselt, Belgium.
(5)Department of Otorhinolaryngology and Head and Neck Surgery, Leiden 
University Medical Center, PO Box 9600, 2300 RC, Leiden, The Netherlands.

The purpose of this study was to examine several behavioral problems in 
school-aged hearing-impaired children with hearing aids or cochlear implants, 
compared to normally hearing children. Additionally, we wanted to investigate 
which sociodemographic, linguistic, and medical factors contributed to the level 
of behavioral problems, to pinpoint where targeted interventions can take place. 
This large, retrospective study included a sample of 261 school-aged children 
(mean age = 11.8 years, SD = 1.6), that consisted of three age- and 
gender-matched subgroups: 75 with hearing aids, 57 with cochlear implants, and 
129 normally hearing controls. Self- and parent-reports concerning reactive and 
proactive aggression, delinquency, and symptoms of psychopathy, attention 
deficit hyperactivity disorder, oppositional defiant disorder, and conduct 
disorder were used. In addition, several language and intelligence tests were 
administered. Hearing-impaired children showed significantly more proactive 
aggression, symptoms of psychopathy, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, 
oppositional defiant disorder, and conduct disorder than their normally hearing 
peers. More behavioral problems were associated with special schools for the 
deaf, sign (-supported) language, hearing aids (in contrast to cochlear 
implants), higher age, male gender, lower socioeconomic status, lower 
intelligence, and delayed language development. Hearing-impaired children face 
multiple problems regarding their behavior. The outcomes implicate that 
professionals should be aware of the higher risk of developing behavioral 
problems, in order to screen, detect, and treat in time. Furthermore, the 
associated risk and protective factors emphasize that clinicians must always 
consider the heterogeneity of the group of hearing-impaired children, in order 
to help and support the individual patient.

DOI: 10.1007/s00787-013-0444-4
PMID: 23807768 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


835. Fiziol Cheloveka. 2013 Jul-Aug;39(4):41-8.

[Emotional intelligence and oscillatory responses on the emotional facial 
expressions].

[Article in Russian]

Kniazev GG, Mitrofanova LG, Bocharov AV.

Emotional intelligence-related differences in oscillatory responses to emotional 
facial expressions were investigated in 48 subjects (26 men and 22 women) in age 
18-30 years. Participants were instructed to evaluate emotional expression 
(angry, happy and neutral) of each presented face on an analog scale ranging 
from -100 (very hostile) to + 100 (very friendly). High emotional intelligence 
(EI) participants were found to be more sensitive to the emotional content of 
the stimuli. It showed up both in their subjective evaluation of the stimuli and 
in a stronger EEG theta synchronization at an earlier (between 100 and 500 ms 
after face presentation) processing stage. Source localization using sLORETA 
showed that this effect was localized in the fusiform gyrus upon the 
presentation of angry faces and in the posterior cingulate gyrus upon the 
presentation of happy faces. At a later processing stage (500-870 ms) 
event-related theta synchronization in high emotional intelligence subject was 
higher in the left prefrontal cortex upon the presentation of happy faces, but 
it was lower in the anterior cingulate cortex upon presentation of angry faces. 
This suggests the existence of a mechanism that can be selectively increase the 
positive emotions and reduce negative emotions.

PMID: 25486829 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


836. Int J Adv Comput Sci. 2013 Jul;3(7):322-329.

Exploratory Analysis in Time-Varying Data Sets: a Healthcare Network 
Application.

Manukyan N, Eppstein MJ, Horbar JD, Leahy KA, Kenny MJ, Mukherjee S, Rizzo DM.

We introduce a new method for exploratory analysis of large data sets with 
time-varying features, where the aim is to automatically discover novel 
relationships between features (over some time period) that are predictive of 
any of a number of time-varying outcomes (over some other time period). Using a 
genetic algorithm, we co-evolve (i) a subset of predictive features, (ii) which 
attribute will be predicted (iii) the time period over which to assess the 
predictive features, and (iv) the time period over which to assess the predicted 
attribute. After validating the method on 15 synthetic test problems, we used 
the approach for exploratory analysis of a large healthcare network data set. We 
discovered a strong association, with 100% sensitivity, between hospital 
participation in multi-institutional quality improvement collaboratives during 
or before 2002, and changes in the risk-adjusted rates of mortality and 
morbidity observed after a 1-2 year lag. The proposed approach is a potentially 
powerful and general tool for exploratory analysis of a wide range of 
time-series data sets.

PMCID: PMC4319218
PMID: 25664281


837. Wiley Interdiscip Rev Cogn Sci. 2013 Jul;4(4):341-356. doi: 10.1002/wcs.1233. 
Epub 2013 Mar 18.

Computational models of planning.

Geffner H(1).

Author information:
(1)ICREA & Universitat Pompeu Fabra, Roc Boronat 138, Barcelona, Spain.

The selection of the action to do next is one of the central problems faced by 
autonomous agents. Natural and artificial systems address this problem in 
various ways: action responses can be hardwired, they can be learned, or they 
can be computed from a model of the situation, the actions, and the goals. 
Planning is the model-based approach to action selection and a fundamental 
ingredient of intelligent behavior in both humans and machines. Planning, 
however, is computationally hard as the consideration of all possible courses of 
action is not computationally feasible. The problem has been addressed by 
research in Artificial Intelligence that in recent years has uncovered simple 
but powerful computational principles that make planning feasible. The 
principles take the form of domain-independent methods for computing heuristics 
or appraisals that enable the effective generation of goal-directed behavior 
even over huge spaces. In this paper, we look at several planning models, at 
methods that have been shown to scale up to large problems, and at what these 
methods may suggest about the human mind. WIREs Cogn Sci 2013, 4:341-356. doi: 
10.1002/wcs.1233 The authors have declared no conflicts of interest for this 
article. For further resources related to this article, please visit the WIREs 
website.

Copyright © 2013 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/wcs.1233
PMID: 26304223


838. Public Opin Q. 2013 Summer;77(2):497-521. doi: 10.1093/poq/nfs049.

Does Biology Justify Ideology? The Politics of Genetic Attribution.

Suhay E(1), Jayaratne TE(1).

Author information:
(1)E lizabeth S uhay is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Government 
and Law, Lafayette College, Easton, PA, USA. T oby E pstein J ayaratne is an 
Assistant Research Scientist in the Department of Health Behavior and Health 
Education, School of Public Health, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA. 
The authors would like to thank Bill Dunne, Michael Feola, Martin Johnson, and 
Kristina Petronko as well as participants in the Spring 2010 New York Area 
Political Psychology Meeting, especially Leonie Huddy, Stanley Feldman, and 
Jeremiah Garretson. They would also like to thank Luc Bruggeman, Ryan Dawe, 
Brian Selvarajah, and Kelly Senters for excellent research assistance and the 
anonymous reviewers for helpful feedback and suggestions. This work was 
supported by the National Human Genome Research Institute [HG01881 to T.E.J.].

Conventional wisdom suggests that political conservatives are more likely than 
liberals to endorse genetic explanations for many human characteristics and 
behaviors. Whether and to what extent this is true has received surprisingly 
limited systematic attention. We examine evidence from a large U.S. public 
opinion survey that measured the extent to which respondents believed genetic 
explanations account for a variety of differences among individuals as well as 
groups in society. We find that conservatives were indeed more likely than 
liberals to endorse genetic explanations for perceived race and class 
differences in characteristics often associated with socioeconomic inequality 
(intelligence, math skills, drive, and violence). Different ideological 
divisions emerged, however, with respect to respondents' explanations for sexual 
orientation. Here, liberals were more likely than conservatives to say that 
sexual orientation is due to genes and less likely to say that it is due to 
choice or the environment. These patterns suggest that conservative and liberal 
ideologues will tend to endorse genetic explanations where their policy 
positions are bolstered by "naturalizing" human differences. That said, debates 
over genetic influence may be more politicized with respect to race, class, and 
sexual orientation than population differences generally: We find that 
left/right political ideology was not significantly associated with genetic (or 
other) attributions for individual differences in intelligence, math skills, 
drive, or violence. We conclude that conceptions of the proper role of 
government are closely intertwined with assumptions about the causes of human 
difference, but that this relationship is a complex one.

DOI: 10.1093/poq/nfs049
PMCID: PMC4567596
PMID: 26379311


839. Klin Lab Diagn. 2013 Jan;(1):3-11.

[The unification of physical chemical and biological actions of spirits of 
glycerin and cholesterol in cell's absorption of fatty acids: the singularity of 
pathogenesis of "metabolic pandemics"].

[Article in Russian]

Titov VN.

According to phylogenetic theory of pathology, atherosclerosis is a syndrome of 
deficiency of essential polyene fatty acids in cells. The unfavorable impact of 
environment and derangement of biological function of trophology (function of 
nutrition) results in failure of transfer in the structure of lipoproteins and 
their active absorption by cells and metabolism of lipids and fatty acids. All 
these processes were formed billions years in the past at the autocrine (cell) 
level, in paracrine cenosis of cells and at the level of organism. The apparent 
derangements of trophology "highlight" the regular and metabolic limitations 
(hidden "defects") which derange bioavailability of essential polyene fatty 
acids for cells by blocking cells' active absorption. The processes of 
metabolism of nonpolar ethers of fatty acids with spirits of glycerin and 
cholesterol are impacted too. The biological function of intelligence applied 
the biological modes can eliminate this derangement through development of 
theory of pathogenesis of atherosclerosis and its effective prevention. The 
normalization of biological function of trophology and brining to conformity 
with capacities of organism advanced in phylogenesis are the only effective mode 
of prevention. This approach will decrease at once the prevalence of all 
"metabolic pandemics" in population. The spirit cholesterol will continue to 
occupy a fitting position in diagnostics of atherosclerosis on a par with spirit 
glycerin with identification of triglycerides. Both spirits are of equal value 
as diagnostic tests to detect the failure of transfer in the structure of 
lipoproteins and active receptor absorption of fatty acids by cells. The article 
proposes to unify on the basis of pathogenesis all "metabolic pandemics", 
diabetes mellitus included, into the section of clinical medicine and name it 
"pathology of fatty acids".

PMID: 23807986 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


840. Practitioner. 2013 May;257(1761):13-6, 2-3.

Diagnosis and management of autism in adults.

Valkanova V(1), Rhodes F, Allan CL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Oxford, UK.

Autism affects 1.1% of the adult population. The spectrum of symptoms is wide; 
some individuals have above average intelligence and are fully independent, 
while others have limited independence because of a learning disability. 
Developmental delay is a core feature, and autism is usually diagnosed in 
childhood. High-functioning individuals with autism, Asperger's syndrome, may 
remain undiagnosed until adulthood. Autism is a life-long condition 
characterised by problems in two core dimensions: difficulties with social 
communication and strongly repetitive behaviour, resistance to change or 
restricted interests.The history should identify early developmental and 
behavioural problems in different settings e.g. at home, in education or 
employment. Sensory and GI problems are very common, and should be asked about. 
The Autism-Spectrum Quotient (AQ-10) is a 10-item questionnaire for people with 
suspected autism. The advantage of using this in primary care is that it 
provides a time-efficient, structured way of ascertaining key symptoms and 
clearly signals those who should be referred for further assessment. Patients 
should be referred if autism is suspected clinically and a diagnosis of autism 
should be confirmed by a specialist multidisciplinary team. If a diagnosis of 
autism is made, clinicians should do a risk assessment and formulate risk and 
crisis management plans. These should include details of the roles and 
responsibilities of both the specialist team and primary care team in managing 
crisis situations. For adults with autism a group-based or an individual 
learning programme to improve social interaction is recommended. Adults with 
autism have high rates of unemployment, and employment programmes have been 
successfully used to support people

PMID: 23808126 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


841. Dev Med Child Neurol. 2013 Oct;55(10):926-33. doi: 10.1111/dmcn.12195. Epub 2013 
Jun 28.

Executive function in children and adolescents with unilateral cerebral palsy.

Bodimeade HL(1), Whittingham K, Lloyd O, Boyd RN.

Author information:
(1)Queensland Cerebral Palsy and Rehabilitation Research Centre, Discipline of 
Paediatrics and Child Health, School of Medicine, The University of Queensland, 
Brisbane, Qld, Australia; School of Psychology, Faculty of Social and 
Behavioural Sciences, The University of Queensland, Brisbane, Qld, Australia.

Comment in
    Dev Med Child Neurol. 2013 Oct;55(10):880-1.

AIM: The aim of this study was to compare executive function in children with 
left- and right-sided unilateral cerebral palsy (CP) and typically developing 
children.
METHOD: There was a cross-sectional cohort of 46 children with unilateral CP (24 
right-side, 22 left-side; 25 males, 21 females; mean age 11y 1mo, SD 2y 5mo) and 
20 typically developing children (nine males, 11 females; mean age 10y 10mo, SD 
2y 4mo). Four cognitive domains of executive function were assessed: attentional 
control, cognitive flexibility, goal setting, and information processing. 
Subtests from the Delis-Kaplan Executive Function System, the Test of Everyday 
Attention for Children, the Rey-Osterrieth Complex figure, and the Wechsler 
Intelligence Scale for Children - Fourth Edition were utilized. Between-group 
differences (right unilateral CP, left unilateral CP, and typically developing 
children) were examined using analyses of covariance.
RESULTS: Children with CP performed significantly more poorly than typically 
developing children on all executive function measures (aggregate executive 
function: F(1,63)=31.16; p<0.001; η(2) =0.33). There were no significant 
differences between children with left and right unilateral CP, except in the 
case of inhibition/switching total errors, with children with left unilateral CP 
making fewer errors than children with right unilateral CP (F(1,39)=4.14; 
p=0.049; η(2) =0.1).
INTERPRETATION: Children and adolescents with unilateral CP experience 
difficulties across multiple executive function domains compared with typically 
developing children, irrespective of the side of hemiplegia. This finding 
supports an early vulnerability model of early brain injury and has implications 
for intervention for children with CP.

© 2013 Mac Keith Press.

DOI: 10.1111/dmcn.12195
PMID: 23809003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


842. Psychol Med. 2014 Mar;44(4):767-77. doi: 10.1017/S0033291713001475. Epub 2013 
Jul 1.

Somatodendritic 5-hydroxytryptamine1A (5-HT1A) autoreceptor function in major 
depression as assessed using the shift in electroencephalographic frequency 
spectrum with buspirone.

McAllister-Williams RH(1), Alhaj HA(2), Massey A(3), Pankiv J(3), Reckermann 
U(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Neuroscience, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.
(2)Academic Clinical Psychiatry, University of Sheffield, UK.
(3)Northumberland, Tyne and Wear NHS Foundation Trust, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.

BACKGROUND: Positron emission tomography and post-mortem studies of the number 
of somatodendritic 5-hydroxytryptamine(1A) (5-HT(1A)) autoreceptors in raphé 
nuclei have found both increases and decreases in depression. However, recent 
genetic studies suggest they may be increased in number and/or function. The 
current study examined the effect of buspirone on the electroencephalographic 
(EEG) centroid frequency, a putative index of somatodendritic 5-HT(1A) receptor 
functional status, in a cohort of medication-free depressed patients and 
controls.
METHOD: A total of 15 depressed patients (nine male) and intelligence quotient 
(IQ)-, gender- and age-matched healthy controls had resting EEG recorded from 29 
scalp electrodes prior to and 30, 60 and 90 min after oral buspirone (30 mg) 
administration. The effect of buspirone on somatodendritic 5-HT(1A) receptors 
was assessed by calculating the EEG centroid frequency between 6 and 10.5 Hz. 
The effect of buspirone on postsynaptic 5-HT(1A) receptors was assessed by 
measuring plasma growth hormone, prolactin and cortisol concentrations.
RESULTS: Analysis of variance revealed a significantly greater effect of 
buspirone on the EEG centroid frequency in patients compared with controls 
(F1,28 = 6.55, p = 0.016). There was no significant difference in the 
neuroendocrine responses between the two groups.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings are consistent with an increase in the functional 
status of somatodendritic, but not postsynaptic, 5-HT1A autoreceptors, in 
medication-free depressed patients in line with hypotheses based on genetic 
data. This increase in functional status would be hypothesized to lead to an 
increase in serotonergic negative feedback, and hence decreased release of 5-HT 
at raphé projection sites, in depressed patients.

DOI: 10.1017/S0033291713001475
PMID: 23809646 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


843. Schizophr Res. 2013 Sep;149(1-3):83-7. doi: 10.1016/j.schres.2013.06.019. Epub 
2013 Jun 25.

General intellectual functioning as a buffer against theory-of-mind deficits in 
individuals at ultra-high risk for psychosis.

Hur JW(1), Byun MS, Shin NY, Shin YS, Kim SN, Jang JH, Kwon JS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences, World Class University Program, 
College of Natural Sciences, Seoul National University, Seoul, Republic of 
Korea.

The influence of neurocognition, including general intelligence, on theory of 
mind (ToM) among patients with schizophrenia spectrum disorder is controversial. 
The purpose of the present study was to identify the influences of the non-ToM 
cognition and general intelligence on ToM performance in individuals at 
ultra-high risk (UHR) for psychosis. Fifty-five UHR subjects and 58 healthy 
controls (HCs) completed neurocognitive, verbal, and nonverbal ToM tasks. UHR 
individuals showed poorer performance in the two verbal ToM tasks, the 
false-belief task and the strange-story tasks. Moreover, the UHR subjects 
displayed poorer recall on the interference list of the verbal learning test. 
Linear regression analysis revealed that neurocognitive functioning, including 
executive functioning, working memory, and general intelligence, accounted for 
significant amounts of the variance in the results for UHR individuals: 20.4% in 
the false-belief task, 44.0% in the strange-story task, and 49.0% in the 
nonverbal cartoon task. Neurocognition, including general intelligence, was not 
a significant contributor to performance on ToM tasks in HCs. ToM deficits were 
not noted in UHR individuals with above-average IQ scores (≥ 110) compared with 
UHR subjects with IQ scores less than 110, who displayed significant differences 
on all ToM tasks compared with HCs. The present results suggest that ToM 
deficits in UHR individuals are complex and may be influenced by non-ToM 
cognition. Our findings are discussed in relation to the role of neurocognitive 
abilities in ToM-related impairments in UHR individuals.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.schres.2013.06.019
PMID: 23810120 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


844. Health Policy. 2013 Dec;113(3):221-7. doi: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2013.05.021. Epub 
2013 Jun 28.

What (or who) causes health inequalities: theories, evidence and implications?

McCartney G(1), Collins C, Mackenzie M.

Author information:
(1)Public Health Observatory Division, NHS Health Scotland, Elphinstone House, 
65 West Regent Street, Glasgow G2 2AF, Scotland, United Kingdom. Electronic 
address: gmccartney@nhs.net.

Health inequalities are the unjust differences in health between groups of 
people occupying different positions in society. Since the Black Report of 1980 
there has been considerable effort to understand what causes them, so as to be 
able to identify actions to reduce them. This paper revisits and updates the 
proposed theories, evaluates the evidence in light of subsequent epidemiological 
research, and underlines the political and policy ramifications. The Black 
Report suggested four theories (artefact, selection, behavioural/cultural and 
structural) as to the root causes of health inequalities and suggested that 
structural theory provided the best explanation. These theories have since been 
elaborated to include intelligence and meritocracy as part of selection theory. 
However, the epidemiological evidence relating to the proposed causal pathways 
does not support these newer elaborations. They may provide partial explanations 
or insights into the mechanisms between cause and effect, but structural theory 
remains the best explanation as to the fundamental causes of health 
inequalities. The paper draws out the vitally important political and policy 
implications of this assessment. Health inequalities cannot be expected to 
reduce substantially as a result of policy aimed at changing health behaviours, 
particularly in the face of wider public policy that militates against reducing 
underlying social inequalities. Furthermore, political rhetoric about the need 
for 'cultural change', without the required changes in the distribution of 
power, income, wealth, or in the regulatory frameworks in society, is likely to 
divert from necessary action.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2013.05.021
PMID: 23810172 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


845. Psychiatry Res. 2013 Nov 30;210(1):21-8. doi: 10.1016/j.psychres.2013.05.029. 
Epub 2013 Jun 28.

The effect of obsessive-compulsive symptomatology on executive functions in 
schizophrenia: a systematic review and meta-analysis.

Cunill R(1), Huerta-Ramos E, Castells X.

Author information:
(1)Unitat d'Hospitalització Psiquiàtrica Penitenciària de Catalunya, Parc 
Sanitari Sant Joan de Déu, Carretera Martorell-Capellades km 23, 08735, Sant 
Esteve Sesrovires, Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain. Electronic address: 
rcunill@pssjd.org.

The presence of obsessive-compulsive symptoms (OCS) and obsessive-compulsive 
disorder (OCD) is frequent in patients with schizophrenia and has been 
associated with greater functional impairment. The impact of these features on 
cognitive function is unclear. In this article, we performed a systematic review 
and meta-analysis to assess the effect of OCS/OCD on executive functions in 
schizophrenia patients. Results indicate that schizophrenia patients with 
OCS/OCD were more impaired in abstract thinking than schizophrenia patients 
without OCS/OCD. This finding provides support to the double jeopardy hypothesis 
and may partially explain the greater functional impairment shown in 
schizo-obsessive patients compared to those with schizophrenia. Inconsistent 
results were found for set-shifting, cognitive flexibility, cognitive inhibition 
and verbal fluency, as indicated by the high statistical heterogeneity found. 
Potential sources of heterogeneity such as definition of OCS/OCD, age of onset, 
severity of negative symptoms and premorbid intelligence were planned to be 
explored but there was an insufficient number of studies to perform these 
analyses. Our findings highlight the complexity of the relationship between 
OCS/OCD and schizophrenia and warrant further investigation of the cognitive 
function of schizo-obsessive patients.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2013.05.029
PMID: 23810510 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


846. Psychiatry Res. 2013 Nov 30;210(1):232-41. doi: 10.1016/j.psychres.2013.05.025. 
Epub 2013 Jun 28.

Empathic accuracy and cognition in schizotypal personality disorder.

Ripoll LH(1), Zaki J, Perez-Rodriguez MM, Snyder R, Strike KS, Boussi A, Bartz 
JA, Ochsner KN, Siever LJ, New AS.

Author information:
(1)Mount Sinai School of Medicine, Department of Psychiatry, One Gustave L. Levy 
Place, Box 1230, NY 10029, United States; James J. Peters VA Medical Center, 
Mental Illness Research Education and Clinical Center (MIRECC), 130 West 
Kingsbridge Rd., Bronx, NY 10468, United States. Electronic address: 
luis.ripoll@mssm.edu.

Interpersonal dysfunction contributes to significant disability in the 
schizophrenia spectrum. Schizotypal Personality Disorder (SPD) is a 
schizophrenia-related personality demonstrating social cognitive impairment in 
the absence of frank psychosis. Past research indicates that cognitive 
dysfunction or schizotypy may account for social cognitive dysfunction in this 
population. We tested SPD subjects and healthy controls on the Empathic Accuracy 
(EA) paradigm and the Reading of the Mind in the Eyes Test (RMET), assessing the 
impact of EA on social support. We also explored whether EA differences could be 
explained by intelligence, working memory, trait empathy, or attachment 
avoidance. SPD subjects did not differ from controls in RMET, but demonstrated 
lower EA during negative valence videos, associated with lower social support. 
Dynamic, multimodal EA paradigms may be more effective at capturing 
interpersonal dysfunction than static image tasks such as RMET. Schizotypal 
severity, trait empathy, and cognitive dysfunction did not account for empathic 
dysfunction in SPD, although attachment avoidance is related to empathic 
differences. Empathic dysfunction for negative affect contributes to decreased 
social support in the schizophrenia spectrum. Future research may shed further 
light on potential links between attachment avoidance, empathic dysfunction, and 
social support.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2013.05.025
PMID: 23810511 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


847. Structure. 2013 Jul 2;21(7):1097-1106. doi: 10.1016/j.str.2013.05.014.

Macromolecular symmetric assembly prediction using swarm intelligence dynamic 
modeling.

Degiacomi MT(1), Dal Peraro M.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Bioengineering, School of Life Sciences, Ecole Polytechnique Fe´ 
de´ rale de Lausanne - EPFL, CH-1025 Lausanne.

Proteins often assemble in multimeric complexes to perform a specific biologic 
function. However, trapping these high-order conformations is difficult 
experimentally. Therefore, predicting how proteins assemble using in silico 
techniques can be of great help. The size of the associated conformational space 
and the fact that proteins are intrinsically flexible structures make this 
optimization problem extremely challenging. Nonetheless, known experimental 
spatial restraints can guide the search process, contributing to model 
biologically relevant states. We present here a swarm intelligence optimization 
protocol able to predict the arrangement of protein symmetric assemblies by 
exploiting a limited amount of experimental restraints and steric interactions. 
Importantly, within this scheme the native flexibility of each protein subunit 
is taken into account as extracted from molecular dynamics (MD) simulations. We 
show that this is a key ingredient for the prediction of biologically functional 
assemblies when, upon oligomerization, subunits explore activated states 
undergoing significant conformational changes.

DOI: 10.1016/j.str.2013.05.014
PMID: 23810695 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


848. Res Dev Disabil. 2013 Sep;34(9):2856-63. doi: 10.1016/j.ridd.2013.05.046. Epub 
2013 Jun 26.

Neuromuscular differences between boys with and without intellectual disability 
during squat jump.

Hassani A(1), Kotzamanidou MC, Fotiadou E, Patikas D, Evagelinou C, Sakadami N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Education and Sport Sciences, Aristotle University of 
Thessaloniki, Thessaloniki, Greece.

The purpose of this study was to identify the differences in vertical squat jump 
(SJ) between volunteers with and without intellectual disability (ID). Thirteen 
boys with ID (average intelligence quotient, estimated by Wisk III test: 55.6 ± 
11.2) and 13 peers without disabilities performed maximal SJ on a force 
platform. Kinematic data were captured using a six-camera 3D motion analysis 
system and electromyographic (EMG) activity was recorded using surface 
electrodes. Unpaired T-test determined the statistical difference between the 
two groups. The obtained results indicated that the group with ID, jumped lower, 
developed lower vertical ground reaction forces, knee power output, knee angular 
velocity, and take-off velocity, and showed longer propulsion duration, 
decreased mean to maximum agonist EMG activity and higher antagonist/agonist 
activity ratio. The deficit in the SJ observed in individuals with ID was 
attributed to a deficit in the examined mechanical and neuromuscular parameters, 
and especially to the agonist and antagonist co-contraction.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ridd.2013.05.046
PMID: 23810926 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


849. Eur J Med Genet. 2013 Aug;56(8):458-62. doi: 10.1016/j.ejmg.2013.06.002. Epub 
2013 Jun 26.

Normal intelligence and premature ovarian failure in an adult female with a 7.6 
Mb de novo terminal deletion of chromosome 9p.

Bartels I(1), Pütz I, Reintjes N, Netzer C, Shoukier M.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Human Genetics, University Medical Center Goettingen, Germany. 
ibartel@gwdg.de

Distal deletion 9p is associated with gonadal dysfunction in XY individuals. 
Little is known about the gonadal function and fertility of XX females with this 
condition. We report on an affected 31-year-old infertile woman presenting with 
premature ovarian failure, mild dysmorphic features, a history of mild 
developmental delay and an otherwise normal female phenotype. Cytogenetic 
analysis showed a deletion 9p with the karyotype 46,XX,del(9)(p23-24) in 
lymphocytes. The subsequent oligonucleotide array-based CGH analysis with 
genomic DNA from peripheral blood revealed a terminal deletion of approximately 
7.6 Mb. SNP microarray analyses of the patient and her unaffected parents 
confirmed the deletion breakpoint and revealed a de novo mutation of paternal 
origin. This is apparently the first description of an adult woman with a 
cytogenetically visible terminal deletion of chromosome 9p. The fertility 
problems observed in this patient complement earlier findings in prepubertal and 
pubertal 46,XX-girls with 9p deletions, who displayed a phenotype ranging from 
primary ovarian dysfunction and mild gonadotropin hyperresponses to positive 
menses. DMRT1 is hemizygous in our patient. We discuss the role of DMRT1 in 
female gonadal development.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejmg.2013.06.002
PMID: 23811035 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


850. Pers Soc Psychol Bull. 2013 Jul;39(7):843-55. doi: 10.1177/0146167213482589. 
Epub 2013 Apr 12.

Is it really self-control? Examining the predictive power of the delay of 
gratification task.

Duckworth AL(1), Tsukayama E, Kirby TA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Pennsylvania, 3701 Market Street, 
Suite 215, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA. duckworth@psych.upenn.edu

This investigation tests whether the predictive power of the delay of 
gratification task (colloquially known as the "marshmallow test") derives from 
its assessment of self-control or of theoretically unrelated traits. Among 56 
school-age children in Study 1, delay time was associated with concurrent 
teacher ratings of self-control and Big Five conscientiousness-but not with 
other personality traits, intelligence, or reward-related impulses. Likewise, 
among 966 preschool children in Study 2, delay time was consistently associated 
with concurrent parent and caregiver ratings of self-control but not with 
reward-related impulses. While delay time in Study 2 was also related to 
concurrently measured intelligence, predictive relations with academic, health, 
and social outcomes in adolescence were more consistently explained by ratings 
of effortful control. Collectively, these findings suggest that delay task 
performance may be influenced by extraneous traits, but its predictive power 
derives primarily from its assessment of self-control.

DOI: 10.1177/0146167213482589
PMCID: PMC3794428
PMID: 23813422 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting Interests The 
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


851. Psychol Assess. 2013 Dec;25(4):1361-6. doi: 10.1037/a0033623. Epub 2013 Jul 1.

Retrospective validation of WTAR and NART scores as estimators of prior 
cognitive ability using the Lothian Birth Cohort 1936.

Dykiert D(1), Deary IJ.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, Department of 
Psychology, University of Edinburgh.

In order to assess the degree of cognitive decline resulting from a pathological 
state, such as dementia, or from a normal aging process, it is necessary to know 
or to have a valid estimate of premorbid (or prior) cognitive ability. The 
National Adult Reading Test (NART; Nelson & Willison, 1991) and the Wechsler 
Test of Adult Reading (WTAR; Psychological Corporation, 2001) are 2 tests 
developed to estimate premorbid or prior ability. Due to the rarity of actual 
prior ability data, validation studies usually compare NART/WTAR performance 
with measures of current abilities in pathological and nonpathological groups. 
In this study, we validate the use of WTAR scores and extend the validation of 
the use of NART scores as estimates of prior ability, vis-à-vis the actual prior 
(childhood) cognitive ability. We do this in a large sample of healthy older 
people, the Lothian Birth Cohort 1936 (Deary, Gow, Pattie, & Starr, 2012; Deary 
et al., 2007). Both NART and WTAR scores were correlated with cognitive ability 
tested in childhood (r = .66-.68). Scores on both the NART and the WTAR had high 
stability over a period of 3 years in old age (r in excess of .90) and high 
interrater reliability. The NART accounted for more unique variance in childhood 
intelligence than did the WTAR.

(c) 2013 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/a0033623
PMID: 23815111 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


852. J Int Neuropsychol Soc. 2013 Aug;19(7):782-91. doi: 10.1017/S1355617713000532. 
Epub 2013 Jul 2.

Prefrontal cortex activity during response selection predicts processing speed 
impairment in schizophrenia.

Woodward ND(1), Duffy B, Karbasforoushan H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Vanderbilt University School of Medicine, 
Nashville, TN, USA. neil.woodward@vanderbilt.edu

Processing speed is the most impaired neuropsychological domain in schizophrenia 
and a robust predictor of functional outcome. Determining the specific cognitive 
operations underlying processing speed dysfunction and identifying their neural 
correlates may assist in developing pro-cognitive interventions. Response 
selection, the process of mapping stimuli onto motor responses, correlates with 
neuropsychological tests of processing speed and may contribute to processing 
speed impairment in schizophrenia. This study investigated the relationship 
between behavioral and neural measures of response selection, and a 
neuropsychological index of processing speed in schizophrenia. Twenty-six 
patients with schizophrenia and 21 healthy subjects underwent functional 
magnetic resonance imaging scanning during performance of two- and four-choice 
reaction time (RT) tasks and completed the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-III 
(WAIS) Processing Speed Index (PSI). Response selection, defined as RT slowing 
between two- and four-choice RT, was impaired in schizophrenia and correlated 
with psychometric processing speed. Greater activation of the dorsolateral 
prefrontal cortex (PFC) was observed in schizophrenia and correlated with poorer 
WAIS PSI scores. Deficient response selection and abnormal recruitment of the 
dorsolateral PFC during response selection contribute to processing speed 
impairment in schizophrenia. Interventions that improve response selection and 
normalize dorsolateral PFC function may improve processing speed in 
schizophrenia.

DOI: 10.1017/S1355617713000532
PMCID: PMC3910268
PMID: 23816240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


853. Psychiatry Res. 2013 Oct 30;209(3):375-80. doi: 10.1016/j.psychres.2013.04.015. 
Epub 2013 Jun 28.

Predictors of performance improvements within a cognitive remediation program 
for schizophrenia.

Scheu F(1), Aghotor J, Pfueller U, Moritz S, Bohn F, Weisbrod M, Roesch-Ely D.

Author information:
(1)Section of Experimental Psychopathology and Neurophysiology, Department of 
Psychiatry, University Hospital Heidelberg, Vossstr. 4, 69115 Heidelberg, 
Germany. Electronic address: scheuflo@gmail.com.

Cognitive impairment is regarded a core feature of schizophrenia and is 
associated with low psychosocial functioning. There is rich evidence that 
cognitive remediation can improve cognitive functions in patients with 
schizophrenia. However, little is known about what predicts individual 
remediation success. Some studies suggest that baseline cognitive impairment 
might be a limiting factor for training response. Aim of the current study was 
to further examine the role of cognitive and symptom variables as predictors of 
remediation success. We studied a total sample of 32 patients with schizophrenia 
and schizoaffective disorder who were engaged in a computer-based cognitive 
training program (CogPack). A pre-training test battery provided cognitive 
measures of selective attention, executive functioning, processing speed, verbal 
memory, and verbal intelligence along with measures for positive and negative 
symptoms. Training response was defined as improvement on training tasks. 
Correlation analyses revealed no significant relationship between any of the 
baseline cognitive or symptom measures and improvement rates. However, better 
baseline cognition was associated with a higher percentage of tasks with initial 
ceiling effects. We conclude that not carefully tailoring task difficulty to 
patients' cognitive abilities constitutes a much more severe threat to cognitive 
remediation success than cognitive impairment itself.

© 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2013.04.015
PMID: 23816518 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


854. Res Dev Disabil. 2013 Sep;34(9):2937-45. doi: 10.1016/j.ridd.2013.06.001. Epub 
2013 Jun 29.

Cognitive and behavioral trajectories in 22q11DS from childhood into 
adolescence: a prospective 6-year follow-up study.

Duijff SN(1), Klaassen PW, Swanenburg de Veye HF, Beemer FA, Sinnema G, Vorstman 
JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Psychology, Wilhelmina Children's Hospital, 
University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands.

Patients with 22q11DS are at risk of behavioral problems and cognitive 
impairment. Recent studies suggest a possible intellectual decline in 22q11DS 
children. To date it is unknown if cognitive development is related to the 
behavioral problems in 22q11DS. We studied 53 children with 22q11DS who 
underwent cognitive and behavioral assessments at 9.5 years (T1) and 15.3 years 
(T2). In about one third, IQ data obtained at 7.5 years (T0) were also 
available. Results showed that internalizing behaviors intensified while 
externalizing behaviors decreased. Simultaneously, in about a third a 
significant decline in IQ was found, which, surprisingly, was unrelated to the 
behavioral changes. It can be concluded that children with 22q11DS follow a 
unique developmental trajectory. Cognitive deterioration is severe in some but 
does not appear to predict behavioral problems in early adolescence.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ridd.2013.06.001
PMID: 23816629 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


855. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 2013 Oct;209(4):356.e1-6. doi: 10.1016/j.ajog.2013.06.041. 
Epub 2013 Jun 28.

In vitro fertilization and late preterm preschoolers' neuropsychological 
outcomes: the PETIT study.

Berry KA(1), Baron IS, Weiss BA, Baker R, Ahronovich MD, Litman FR.

Author information:
(1)Fairfax Neonatal Associates, Inova Children's Hospital, Falls Church, VA.

OBJECTIVE: In vitro fertilization (IVF) is considered a generally safe 
procedure, although associated with a higher incidence of preterm birth. The 
literature is inconsistent about the psychological impact of IVF, and we found 
no reports about outcome in late preterm (LPT) children. Our objective was to 
study neuropsychological and behavioral outcomes in a cohort of preschoolers 
born LPT between 2004 and 2007.
STUDY DESIGN: Participants were 397 LPT children (mean age, 3.8 years) conceived 
assisted by IVF (n = 105) or non-IVF (n = 292). Standardized performance-based 
tests of general conceptual ability (intelligence quotient), executive function, 
focused/selective attention, visual-spatial perception, visual-motor skill, 
manual dexterity, learning, and memory were administered. Parents completed 
behavioral and executive function questionnaires.
RESULTS: IVF group characteristics included older maternal age (P < .001), lower 
birthweight (P < .001), and higher maternal education (P < .001). No main-effect 
significant group differences were found for any variable after controlling for 
these variables. However, sex differences were demonstrated for the 
neuropsychological variables in copying (P > .001), nonverbal reasoning (P = 
.001), manual dexterity (P = .001), and inhibitory capacity (P = .006), all 
favoring girls.
CONCLUSION: Birth following IVF-assisted conception did not increase the risk of 
intellectual, neuropsychological, or behavioral deficit in LPT preschoolers. As 
shown in earlier gestational-age participants, girls have selective advantages. 
These findings should be reassuring for parents who conceive through IVF and 
deliver infants 1-3 weeks before term gestational age. Future study of these 
children at elementary school age may detect subtle impairments not yet apparent 
at age 3 years.

Copyright © 2013 Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajog.2013.06.041
PMID: 23816840 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


856. J BUON. 2013 Apr-Jun;18(2):425-9.

Adjuvant chemotherapy after reduced craniospinal irradiation dose in children 
with average-risk medulloblastoma: a 5-year follow-up study.

Wahba HA(1), Abu-Hegazy M, Wasel Y, Ismail EI, Zidan AS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Oncology and Nuclear Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, 
Mansoura University, Mansoura, Egypt.

PURPOSE: This study was undertaken to determine the effect of adjuvant 
chemotherapy combined with reduced-dose craniospinal irradiation (CSI) on 
survival and neurocognitive sequelae of radiotherapy (RT) in patients with 
average- risk medulloblastoma above the age of 3 years.
METHODS: Thirty-three children between 3 and 10 years of age with average-risk 
medulloblastoma were treated with postoperative reduced-dose CSI (24.0 Gy) and 
30.6 Gy of local RT (total of 54.6 Gy) and then with adjuvant chemotherapy 
consisting of cisplatin, vincristine, and cyclophosphamide every 4 weeks for 8 
cycles.
RESULTS: At 5 years, event-free survival (EFS) was 79%, while overall survival 
(OS) was 85%. Sites of relapse were local in 3%, neuraxis in 9% and both local 
and neuraxis in 9% of the patients. Chemotherapy was well tolerated. 
Hematopoietic toxicity was the most predominant side effect followed by vomiting 
and ototoxicity. No grade III or IV nephrotoxicity or neurotoxicity and no 
treatment-related deaths were encountered. Insignificant decline of intelligence 
quotient (IQ) was reported in 28.6% of the patients.
CONCLUSION: The preliminary results of adjuvant chemotherapy after reduced-dose 
CSI in average-risk medulloblastoma patients are encouraging and effective, and 
can be applied safely with acceptable toxicity.

PMID: 23818356 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


857. Psychol Sci. 2013 Aug;24(8):1487-95. doi: 10.1177/0956797612473119. Epub 2013 
Jul 1.

The nature and nurture of high IQ: an extended sensitive period for intellectual 
development.

Brant AM(1), Munakata Y, Boomsma DI, Defries JC, Haworth CM, Keller MC, Martin 
NG, McGue M, Petrill SA, Plomin R, Wadsworth SJ, Wright MJ, Hewitt JK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, The Pennsylvania State University, PA 16802-3106, 
USA. amb76@psu.edu

IQ predicts many measures of life success, as well as trajectories of brain 
development. Prolonged cortical thickening observed in individuals with high IQ 
might reflect an extended period of synaptogenesis and high environmental 
sensitivity or plasticity. We tested this hypothesis by examining the timing of 
changes in the magnitude of genetic and environmental influences on IQ as a 
function of IQ score. We found that individuals with high IQ show high 
environmental influence on IQ into adolescence (resembling younger children), 
whereas individuals with low IQ show high heritability of IQ in adolescence 
(resembling adults), a pattern consistent with an extended sensitive period for 
intellectual development in more-intelligent individuals. The pattern held 
across a cross-sectional sample of almost 11,000 twin pairs and a longitudinal 
sample of twins, biological siblings, and adoptive siblings.

DOI: 10.1177/0956797612473119
PMCID: PMC4511162
PMID: 23818653 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


858. Psychol Sci. 2013 Sep;24(9):1704-13. doi: 10.1177/0956797613478618. Epub 2013 
Jul 1.

Explaining the increasing heritability of cognitive ability across development: 
a meta-analysis of longitudinal twin and adoption studies.

Briley DA(1), Tucker-Drob EM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology and Population Research Center, University of Texas 
at Austin.

Erratum in
    Psychol Sci. 2021 Mar;32(3):466.

Genes account for increasing proportions of variation in cognitive ability 
across development, but the mechanisms underlying these increases remain 
unclear. We conducted a meta-analysis of longitudinal behavioral genetic studies 
spanning infancy to adolescence. We identified relevant data from 16 articles 
with 11 unique samples containing a total of 11,500 twin and sibling pairs who 
were all reared together and measured at least twice between the ages of 6 
months and 18 years. Longitudinal behavioral genetic models were used to 
estimate the extent to which early genetic influences on cognition were 
amplified over time and the extent to which innovative genetic influences arose 
with time. Results indicated that in early childhood, innovative genetic 
influences predominate but that innovation quickly diminishes, and amplified 
influences account for increasing heritability following age 8 years.

DOI: 10.1177/0956797613478618
PMCID: PMC3954471
PMID: 23818655 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting Interests: The 
authors declared that they had no conflicts of interest with respect to their 
authorship or the publication of this article.


859. Gene. 2013 Sep 25;527(2):679-82. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2013.06.030. Epub 2013 Jun 
29.

Late onset GM2 gangliosidosis mimicking spinal muscular atrophy.

Jamrozik Z(1), Lugowska A, Gołębiowski M, Królicki L, Mączewska J, 
Kuźma-Kozakiewicz M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Medical University of Warsaw, Poland. 
zygmunt.jamrozik@wum.edu.pl

A case of late onset GM2 gangliosidodis with spinal muscular atrophy phenotype 
followed by cerebellar and extrapyramidal symptoms is presented. Genetic 
analysis revealed compound heterozygous mutation in exon 10 of the HEXA gene. 
Patient has normal intelligence and emotional reactivity. Neuroimaging tests of 
the brain showed only cerebellar atrophy consistent with MR spectroscopy (MRS) 
abnormalities. (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (18)F-FDG 
PET/CT of the brain revealed glucose hypometabolism in cerebellum and in 
temporal and occipital lobes bilaterally.

© 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2013.06.030
PMID: 23820084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


860. Stud Health Technol Inform. 2013;190:56-8.

Predicting asthma exacerbations using artificial intelligence.

Finkelstein J(1), Wood J.

Author information:
(1)Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD, USA.

Modern telemonitoring systems identify a serious patient deterioration when it 
already occurred. It would be much more beneficial if the upcoming clinical 
deterioration were identified ahead of time even before a patient actually 
experiences it. The goal of this study was to assess artificial intelligence 
approaches which potentially can be used in telemonitoring systems for advance 
prediction of changes in disease severity before they actually occur. The study 
dataset was based on daily self-reports submitted by 26 adult asthma patients 
during home telemonitoring consisting of 7001 records. Two classification 
algorithms were employed for building predictive models: naïve Bayesian 
classifier and support vector machines. Using a 7-day window, a support vector 
machine was able to predict asthma exacerbation to occur on the day 8 with the 
accuracy of 0.80, sensitivity of 0.84 and specificity of 0.80. Our study showed 
that methods of artificial intelligence have significant potential in developing 
individualized decision support for chronic disease telemonitoring systems.

PMID: 23823374 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


861. Stud Health Technol Inform. 2013;190:191-3.

Business intelligence and information systems in hospitals--distribution and 
usage of BI and HIS in German hospitals.

Bartsch P(1), Lux T, Wagner A, Gabriel R.

Author information:
(1)Competence Center eHealth Ruhr, Ruhr-University Bochum.

This paper shows the results of a short survey taken place in February 2013 
within German Hospitals. The present studies view is bottom-up and the 
interviews are done directly with the hospitals CIOs. There are some effects 
like the G-DRG implementation in Germany that are evident in the results. The 
survey indicates also the different methods of adapting the solutions, either by 
having an all-in-one solution by a single provider or by using a modular 
solution from multiple providers.

PMID: 23823419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


862. Educ Health (Abingdon). 2013 Jan-Apr;26(1):39-47. doi: 10.4103/1357-6283.112800.

A longitudinal study of relationships between previous academic achievement, 
emotional intelligence and personality traits with psychological health of 
medical students during stressful periods.

Yusoff MS(1), Esa AR, Mat Pa MN, Mey SC, Aziz RA, Abdul Rahim AF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Education, School of Medical Sciences, Universiti Sains 
Malaysia, Malaysia. msaiful@kb.usm.my

CONTEXT: There is considerable evidence that emotional intelligence, previous 
academic achievement (i.e. cumulative grade point average (GPA)) and personality 
are associated with success in various occupational settings. This study 
evaluated the relationships of these variables with psychological health of 
first year medical students during stressful periods.
METHODS: A 1-year prospective study was done with students accepted into the 
School of Medical Sciences, Universiti Sains Malaysia. Information on emotional 
intelligence, GPA and personality traits were obtained prior to admission. The 
validated Universiti Sains Malaysia Emotional Quotient Inventory and Universiti 
Sains Malaysia Personality Inventory were used to measure emotional intelligence 
and personality traits, respectively. Stress, anxiety and depression were 
measured by the 21-item Depression Anxiety Stress Scale during the end-of-course 
(time 1) and final (time 2) examinations.
RESULTS: At the less stressful period (time 1), stress level was associated with 
agreeableness and the final GPA, anxiety level was associated with emotional 
control and emotional conscientiousness and depression level was associated with 
the final GPA and extraversion. At the more stressful period (time 2), 
neuroticism associated with stress level, anxiety level was associated with 
neuroticism and emotional expression, and depression level was associated with 
neuroticism.
CONCLUSIONS: This study found that neuroticism was the strongest associated 
factor of psychological health of medical students during their most stressful 
testing period. Various personality traits, emotional intelligence and previous 
academic performance were associated factors of psychological health during a 
less stressful period. These data suggest that early identification of medical 
students who are vulnerable to the stressful environment of medical schools 
might help them maintain psychological well-being during medical training.

DOI: 10.4103/1357-6283.112800
PMID: 23823672 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


863. Hum Mutat. 2013 Oct;34(10):1381-6. doi: 10.1002/humu.22377. Epub 2013 Jul 26.

Clinical and radiographic features of the autosomal recessive form of 
brachyolmia caused by PAPSS2 mutations.

Iida A(1), Simsek-Kiper PÖ, Mizumoto S, Hoshino T, Elcioglu N, Horemuzova E, 
Geiberger S, Yesil G, Kayserili H, Utine GE, Boduroglu K, Watanabe S, Ohashi H, 
Alanay Y, Sugahara K, Nishimura G, Ikegawa S.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory for Bone and Joint Diseases, Center for Integrative Medical 
Science, RIKEN, Tokyo, Japan.

Brachyolmia is a heterogeneous skeletal dysplasia characterized by generalized 
platyspondyly without significant long-bone abnormalities. Based on the mode of 
inheritance and radiographic features, at least three types of brachyolmia have 
been postulated. We recently identified an autosomal recessive form of 
brachyolmia that is caused by loss-of-function mutations of PAPSS2, the gene 
encoding PAPS (3'-phosphoadenosine 5'-phosphosulfate) synthase 2. To understand 
brachyolmia caused by PAPSS2 mutations (PAPSS2-brachyolmia), we extended our 
PAPSS2 mutation analysis to 13 patients from 10 families and identified 
homozygous or compound heterozygous mutations in all. Nine different mutations 
were found: three splice donor-site mutations, three missense mutations, and 
three insertion or deletion mutations within coding regions. In vitro enzyme 
assays showed that the missense mutations were also loss-of-function mutations. 
Phenotypic characteristics of PAPSS2-brachyolmia include short-trunk short 
stature, normal intelligence and facies, spinal deformity, and broad proximal 
interphalangeal joints. Radiographic features include platyspondyly with 
rectangular vertebral bodies and irregular end plates, broad ilia, metaphyseal 
changes of the proximal femur, including short femoral neck and striation, and 
dysplasia of the short tubular bones. PAPSS2-brachyolmia includes phenotypes of 
the conventional clinical concept of brachyolmia, the Hobaek and Toledo types, 
and is associated with abnormal androgen metabolism.

© 2013 WILEY PERIODICALS, INC.

DOI: 10.1002/humu.22377
PMID: 23824674 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


864. Am J Med Genet A. 2013 Aug;161A(8):2084-7. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.a.36028. Epub 2013 
Jul 4.

Homozygous deletion in TUSC3 causing syndromic intellectual disability: a new 
patient.

Loddo S(1), Parisi V, Doccini V, Filippi T, Bernardini L, Brovedani P, Ricci F, 
Novelli A, Battaglia A.

Author information:
(1)Mendel Laboratory, IRCCS Casa Sollievo della Sofferenza Hospital, San 
Giovanni Rotondo (FG), Italy.

Defects in the TUSC3 gene have been identified in individuals with nonsyndromic 
autosomal recessive intellectual disability (ARID), due to either point 
mutations or intragenic deletions. We report on a boy with a homozygous 
microdeletion 8p22, sizing 203 kb, encompassing the first exon of the TUSC3 
gene, detected by SNP-array analysis (Human Gene Chip 6.0; Affymetrix). Both 
nonconsanguineous parents come from a small Sicilian village and were 
heterozygous carriers of the microdeletion. The propositus had a few dysmorphic 
features and a moderate cognitive impairment. Verbal communication was impaired, 
with an inappropriate phonetic inventory, important phono-articolatory 
distortions, and bucco-phonatory dyspraxia. Comprehension was possible for 
simple sentences. Behavior was characterized by motor instability, high tendency 
to irritability and distraibility, anxiety traits, and an oppositional-defiant 
disorder. His parents were of normal intelligence. TUSC3 is thought to encode a 
subunit of the endoplasmic reticulum-bound oligosaccharyltranferase complex that 
catalyzes a pivotal step in the protein N-glycosylation process. TUSC3 has been 
recently reported as a member of the plasma membrane Mg(2+) transport system, 
with a possible involvement in learning abilities, working memory and short- and 
long-term memory. This is the third family in which a deletion has been 
described. Although the pathogenic mechanism has not been clarified yet, our 
report argues for a more prominent role of TUSC3 in the etiology of intellectual 
disability and that deletions encompassing this gene could be more common than 
expected.

Copyright © 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.a.36028
PMID: 23825019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


865. Intelligence. 2013 Jul;41(4):212-221. doi: 10.1016/j.intell.2013.03.003.

The relationship between intelligence and creativity: New support for the 
threshold hypothesis by means of empirical breakpoint detection.

Jauk E(1), Benedek M, Dunst B, Neubauer AC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Graz, Austria.

The relationship between intelligence and creativity has been subject to 
empirical research for decades. Nevertheless, there is yet no consensus on how 
these constructs are related. One of the most prominent notions concerning the 
interplay between intelligence and creativity is the threshold hypothesis, which 
assumes that above-average intelligence represents a necessary condition for 
high-level creativity. While earlier research mostly supported the threshold 
hypothesis, it has come under fire in recent investigations. The threshold 
hypothesis is commonly investigated by splitting a sample at a given threshold 
(e.g., at 120 IQ points) and estimating separate correlations for lower and 
upper IQ ranges. However, there is no compelling reason why the threshold should 
be fixed at an IQ of 120, and to date, no attempts have been made to detect the 
threshold empirically. Therefore, this study examined the relationship between 
intelligence and different indicators of creative potential and of creative 
achievement by means of segmented regression analysis in a sample of 297 
participants. Segmented regression allows for the detection of a threshold in 
continuous data by means of iterative computational algorithms. We found 
thresholds only for measures of creative potential but not for creative 
achievement. For the former the thresholds varied as a function of criteria: 
When investigating a liberal criterion of ideational originality (i.e., two 
original ideas), a threshold was detected at around 100 IQ points. In contrast, 
a threshold of 120 IQ points emerged when the criterion was more demanding 
(i.e., many original ideas). Moreover, an IQ of around 85 IQ points was found to 
form the threshold for a purely quantitative measure of creative potential 
(i.e., ideational fluency). These results confirm the threshold hypothesis for 
qualitative indicators of creative potential and may explain some of the 
observed discrepancies in previous research. In addition, we obtained evidence 
that once the intelligence threshold is met, personality factors become more 
predictive for creativity. On the contrary, no threshold was found for creative 
achievement, i.e. creative achievement benefits from higher intelligence even at 
fairly high levels of intellectual ability.

DOI: 10.1016/j.intell.2013.03.003
PMCID: PMC3682183
PMID: 23825884


866. PLoS One. 2013 Jun 24;8(6):e66204. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0066204. Print 
2013.

Factors influencing adult physical health after controlling for current health 
conditions: evidence from a british cohort.

Cheng H(1), Furnham A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University College London, London, United Kingdom.

This study explored a longitudinal data set of 6875 British adults examining the 
effects of parental social status (measured at birth), cognitive ability (at age 
11 yrs), personality traits, education and occupational attainment on physical 
health and functioning (all measured at age 50 yrs), after taking account of 
current health conditions (number of illness). Correlation analysis showed that 
parental social class, childhood cognitive ability, education and occupation, 
and two personality traits (Emotional Stability/Neuroticism, and 
Conscientiousness) were all significantly associated with adult physical health 
variables. Structural equation modelling showed that health conditions and 
personality traits were significantly, and inversely, associated with physical 
health (indicated by good daily physical functioning, relative absence of pain, 
perceived health, and low level of limitations at work due to physical health). 
Parental social status, childhood intelligence, educational and occupational 
attainment were all modestly, but significantly and directly, associated with 
adult physical health. The effect of childhood intelligence on adult physical 
health was, in part, mediated through Emotional Stability and Conscientiousness. 
After controlling for health conditions Emotional Stability was the strongest 
predictor of physical health. Implications and limitations are discussed.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0066204
PMCID: PMC3691237
PMID: 23826090 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


867. Scand J Med Sci Sports. 2014 Feb;24(1):e52-61. doi: 10.1111/sms.12093. Epub 2013 
Jul 5.

A physical education trial improves adolescents' cognitive performance and 
academic achievement: the EDUFIT study.

Ardoy DN(1), Fernández-Rodríguez JM, Jiménez-Pavón D, Castillo R, Ruiz JR, 
Ortega FB.

Author information:
(1)PROFITH "PROmoting FITness and Health Through Physical Activity" Research 
Group, Department of Physical Education and Sports, School of Sport Sciences, 
University of Granada, Spain; Department of Medical Physiology, School of 
Medicine, University of Granada, Granada, Spain; Department of Biosciences and 
Nutrition, Karolinska Institutet, Huddinge, Sweden; Department of Physical 
Education, IES J. Martínez Ruiz Azorín of Yecla, Ministry of Education of 
Murcia, Murcia, Spain.

To analyze the effects of an intervention focused on increasing the time and 
intensity of Physical Education (PE), on adolescents' cognitive performance and 
academic achievement. A 4-month group-randomized controlled trial was conducted 
in 67 adolescents from South-East Spain, 2007. Three classes were randomly 
allocated into control group (CG), experimental group 1 (EG1) and experimental 
group 2 (EG2). CG received usual PE (two sessions/week), EG1 received four PE 
sessions/week and EG2 received four PE sessions/week of high intensity. 
Cognitive performance (non-verbal and verbal ability, abstract reasoning, 
spatial ability, verbal reasoning and numerical ability) was assessed by the 
Spanish Overall and Factorial Intelligence Test, and academic achievement by 
school grades. All the cognitive performance variables, except verbal reasoning, 
increased more in EG2 than in CG (all P < 0.05). Average school grades (e.g., 
mathematics) increased more in EG2 than in CG. Overall, EG2 improved more than 
EG1, without differences between EG1 and CG. Increased PE can benefit cognitive 
performance and academic achievement. This study contributes to the current 
knowledge by suggesting that the intensity of PE sessions might play a role in 
the positive effect of physical activity on cognition and academic success. 
Future studies involving larger sample sizes should confirm or contrast these 
preliminary findings.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/sms.12093
PMID: 23826633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


868. Emerg Health Threats J. 2013 Jul 3;6:20632. doi: 10.3402/ehtj.v6i0.20632.

What we are watching--five top global infectious disease threats, 2012: a 
perspective from CDC's Global Disease Detection Operations Center.

Christian KA(1), Ijaz K, Dowell SF, Chow CC, Chitale RA, Bresee JS, Mintz E, 
Pallansch MA, Wassilak S, McCray E, Arthur RR.

Author information:
(1)Division of Global Disease Detection and Emergency Response, Center for 
Global Health, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, GA, USA. 
DOT9@cdc.gov

Disease outbreaks of international public health importance continue to occur 
regularly; detecting and tracking significant new public health threats in 
countries that cannot or might not report such events to the global health 
community is a challenge. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's (CDC) 
Global Disease Detection (GDD) Operations Center, established in early 2007, 
monitors infectious and non-infectious public health events to identify new or 
unexplained global public health threats and better position CDC to respond, if 
public health assistance is requested or required. At any one time, the GDD 
Operations Center actively monitors approximately 30-40 such public health 
threats; here we provide our perspective on five of the top global infectious 
disease threats that we were watching in 2012: 1 avian influenza A (H5N1), 2 
cholera, 3 wild poliovirus, 4 enterovirus-71, and 5 extensively drug-resistant 
tuberculosis11†Current address: Division of Integrated Biosurveillance, Armed 
Forces Health Surveillance Center, US Department of Defense, Silver Spring, MD, 
USA.

DOI: 10.3402/ehtj.v6i0.20632
PMCID: PMC3701798
PMID: 23827387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


869. Neurotoxicol Teratol. 2013 Sep-Oct;39:36-44. doi: 10.1016/j.ntt.2013.06.004. 
Epub 2013 Jul 1.

Modification of neurobehavioral effects of mercury by genetic polymorphisms of 
metallothionein in children.

Woods JS(1), Heyer NJ, Russo JE, Martin MD, Pillai PB, Farin FM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental and Occupational Health Sciences, University of 
Washington, Seattle, WA, USA. Electronic address: jwoods@u.washington.edu.

Comment in
    Neurotoxicol Teratol. 2014 Jul-Aug;44:126.

Mercury (Hg) is neurotoxic, and children may be particularly susceptible to this 
effect. A current major challenge is the identification of children who may be 
uniquely susceptible to Hg toxicity because of genetic disposition. We examined 
the hypothesis that genetic variants of metallothionein (MT) that are reported 
to affect Hg toxicokinetics in adults would modify the neurotoxic effects of Hg 
in children. Five hundred seven children, 8-12 years of age at baseline, 
participated in a clinical trial to evaluate the neurobehavioral effects of Hg 
from dental amalgam tooth fillings. Subjects were evaluated at baseline and at 7 
subsequent annual intervals for neurobehavioral performance and urinary Hg 
levels. Following the completion of the clinical trial, we performed genotyping 
assays for variants of MT isoforms MT1M (rs2270837) and MT2A (rs10636) on 
biological samples provided by 330 of the trial participants. Regression 
modeling strategies were employed to evaluate associations between allelic 
status, Hg exposure, and neurobehavioral test outcomes. Among girls, few 
significant interactions or independent main effects for Hg exposure and either 
of the MT gene variants were observed. In contrast, among boys, numerous 
significant interaction effects between variants of MT1M and MT2A, alone and 
combined, with Hg exposure were observed spanning multiple domains of 
neurobehavioral function. All dose-response associations between Hg exposure and 
test performance were restricted to boys and were in the direction of impaired 
performance. These findings suggest increased susceptibility to the adverse 
neurobehavioral effects of Hg among children with relatively common genetic 
variants of MT, and may have important public health implications for future 
strategies aimed at protecting children and adolescents from the potential 
health risks associated with Hg exposure. We note that because urinary Hg 
reflects a composite exposure index that cannot be attributed to a specific 
source, these findings do not support an association between Hg in dental 
amalgams specifically and the adverse neurobehavioral outcomes observed.

© 2013.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ntt.2013.06.004
PMCID: PMC3795926
PMID: 23827881 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Statement The authors 
declare that there are no conflicts of interest.


870. Percept Mot Skills. 2013 Feb;116(1):40-57. doi: 10.2466/22.25.PMS.116.1.40-57.

Motor and cognitive performance of overweight preschool children.

Krombholz H(1).

Author information:
(1)State Institute of Early Childhood Education and Research, Munich, Federal 
Republic of Germany. heinz.krombholz@ifp.bayern.de

Gross and fine motor skills and cognitive performance in obese and overweight 
children were compared to healthy weight children. Participants were 1,543 
children (797 boys and 746 girls) ages 43 to 84 months, attending childcare 
centers in Munich, Germany. According to German Body Mass Index (BMI) standards 
for age and sex, 4.6% of the children were classified as obese (percentile 
greater or equal 97), 6.8% as overweight (percentile greater or equal 90 and 
less than 97), 5.9% as underweight (percentile less than 10), and 83.1% as being 
of healthy weight. Dependent variables were physical characteristics (height, 
weight, skinfold thickness), physical fitness (standing broad jump, shuttle run, 
hanging), body coordination (balancing forward, balancing backward, lateral 
jump, hopping), manual dexterity (right and left hand), and cognitive 
performance (intelligence, verbal ability, concentration). Higher proportions of 
children from lower socioeconomic and immigrant backgrounds were overweight. 
There was no association between weight and sex. Overweight children showed 
lower performance on gross motor skills (coordination and fitness), manual 
dexterity, and intelligence compared to healthy weight children, even after 
controlling for the effects of social class and immigration status.

DOI: 10.2466/22.25.PMS.116.1.40-57
PMID: 23829133 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


871. Rev Psiquiatr Salud Ment. 2014 Jan-Mar;7(1):13-24. doi: 
10.1016/j.rpsm.2013.04.001. Epub 2013 Jul 2.

Neuropsychological assessment of memory in child and adolescent first episode 
psychosis: cannabis and «the paradox effect».

[Article in English, Spanish]

Moreno-Granados JM(1), Ferrín M(2), Salcedo-Marín DM(1), Ruiz-Veguilla M(3).

Author information:
(1)Grupo de Psicosis y Neurodesarrollo, Instituto de Biomedicina de Sevilla 
(IBIS), Hospital Universitario Virgen del Rocío/CSIC/Universidad de Sevilla, 
Sevilla, España.
(2)Department of Child & Adolescent Psychiatry, Institute of Psychiatry, 
Sunshine House (Neurodevelopmental Team), Londres, Reino Unido; Centro de Salud 
Mental Estella, Estella, Pamplona, España.
(3)Department of Child & Adolescent Psychiatry, Institute of Psychiatry, 
Sunshine House (Neurodevelopmental Team), Londres, Reino Unido. Electronic 
address: miguel.ruiz.veguilla.sspa@juntadeandalucia.es.

INTRODUCTION: The importance of neuropsychological functioning in First-Episode 
Psychosis (FEP) has led to the publication of a growing number of studies in 
this area of research. The present study pursued three goals: First, to examine 
verbal and visual memory in a sample of Child and Adolescent FEP, second, to 
evaluate the effect of other cognitive domains on verbal and visual memory, and 
finally, to examine the relationship between performance in this cognitive 
dimension and the use of cannabis at this age.
METHOD: A sample of 41 FEPs and 39 healthy subjects were evaluated. The 
variables assessed were verbal and visual memory, attention, working memory, 
processing speed, mental flexibility, verbal fluency, motor coordination, 
planning ability and intelligence.
RESULTS: Our results found impairment of short and long-term recall of verbal 
memory, and short-term visual memory in early psychosis. They also found 
relationships between cognitive dimensions, such as visual memory and 
intelligence and motor coordination. Finally, a «paradoxical» effect was found 
in patients who used cannabis, as the FEP consumers performed the visual memory 
test better than those who had not used it.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients showed impairment of short and long-term recall of verbal 
information and short-term visual reproduction. In the second place, motor 
coordination and intelligence influenced short-term visual memory in patients in 
the early stages of the illness. Third, use of cannabis in patients with FEP was 
associated with better performance in the test that evaluated the short-term 
visual memory, as measured by task completion time, that is, efficiency in 
performing the test. However, when measured by task execution accuracy, their 
visual memory was no better than the controls.

Copyright © 2012 SEP y SEPB. Published by Elsevier España. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rpsm.2013.04.001
PMID: 23830215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


872. Eur J Cancer. 2013 Sep;49(14):3029-40. doi: 10.1016/j.ejca.2013.05.023. Epub 
2013 Jul 4.

The use of stimulant medication to improve neurocognitive and learning outcomes 
in children diagnosed with brain tumours: a systematic review.

Smithson EF(1), Phillips R, Harvey DW, Morrall MC.

Author information:
(1)Programme in Clinical Psychology, Leeds Institute of Health Sciences, Charles 
Thackrah Building, Clarendon Road, Leeds LS2 9LJ, UK.

Comment in
    Eur J Cancer. 2014 May;50(8):1569-70.
    Eur J Cancer. 2014 May;50(8):1566-8.

PURPOSE: Impaired attention is reported in children following treatment for 
brain tumours (BT). Attention problems impact on information processing and 
encoding, ultimately leading to academic under-performance. Having been 
successfully used to manage attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), 
stimulants such as methylphenidate (MPH) have been investigated as a beneficial 
treatment for survivors of childhood BT. In order to develop appropriate 
strategies to manage late neurocognitive effects, the results of such trials 
should be evaluated to identify those children most likely to benefit from 
stimulants.
DESIGN: An advanced search was performed across twelve electronic databases for 
the selection of relevant randomised controlled trials with at least one active 
stimulant-treated arm. Abstracts were screened for eligibility and data on study 
design and results were extracted.
RESULTS: Of the 5446 records identified, 11 full text articles were assessed for 
eligibility and seven included in qualitative synthesis. Of the seven papers 
there were four original trials. Short term outcomes for MPH on objective direct 
measures of attention and parent/teacher ratings of behaviour were favourable. 
Observations of side effects indicate that MPH is generally well tolerated. 
Heterogeneity of study design and outcome measures precluded meta-analysis.
CONCLUSION: Despite yielding only a small number of trials with limited sample 
size, studies investigating the use of stimulant medication in survivors of 
childhood BT have provided promising outcomes. Current evidence indicates males, 
older age when treated, and higher baseline intelligence quotient (IQ) were 
predictive of greater responsiveness to MPH. While encouraging, additional 
research using a standardised protocol of outcome measures would be beneficial 
in identifying those likely to benefit from stimulant use. Further, the 
available data have yet to establish clear evidence for the effectiveness of MPH 
being translated into improvements on standardised measures of academic 
achievement.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejca.2013.05.023
PMID: 23831334 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


873. Gene. 2013 Sep 25;527(2):541-4. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2013.06.043. Epub 2013 Jul 
4.

Neonatal presentation of chromosome 9q33.2-q34.3 duplication.

Moody A(1), Athikarisamy SE, Yeung A, Burgess T, Malhotra A.

Author information:
(1)Monash Newborn, Monash Children's, Melbourne, Australia.

Partial terminal duplication of chromosome 9 is a rare anomaly that is known to 
be associated with specific dysmorphic features. While having common 
characteristics, these patients also have inconsistent phenotypic features. 
These inconsistent features may be attributed to the length and the region of 
the duplicated segment of chromosome 9. We discuss a case of an infant with 
similar physical features to those previously reported including dysmorphology 
of the craniofacial region, hands and feet. However we also describe findings of 
malrotation and renal anomalies. Microarray demonstrated duplication of 
9q33.2-q34.3 with normal parental karyotyping. This is the first reported case 
of duplication of this specific region of chromosome 9q and the phenotypic 
presentation represents a new constellation of clinical findings.

© 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2013.06.043
PMID: 23831513 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


874. J Biomol Screen. 2013 Dec;18(10):1193-202. doi: 10.1177/1087057113495296. Epub 
2013 Jul 5.

Development of high-content assays for kidney progenitor cell expansion in 
transgenic zebrafish.

Sanker S(1), Cirio MC, Vollmer LL, Goldberg ND, McDermott LA, Hukriede NA, Vogt 
A.

Author information:
(1)1Department of Developmental Biology, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, 
PA, USA.

Reactivation of genes normally expressed during organogenesis is a 
characteristic of kidney regeneration. Enhancing this reactivation could 
potentially be a therapeutic target to augment kidney regeneration. The 
inductive events that drive kidney organogenesis in zebrafish are similar to the 
initial steps in mammalian kidney organogenesis. Therefore, quantifying 
embryonic signals that drive zebrafish kidney development is an attractive 
strategy for the discovery of potential novel therapeutic modalities that 
accelerate kidney regeneration. The Lim1 homeobox protein, Lhx1, is a marker of 
kidney development that is also expressed in the regenerating kidneys after 
injury. Using a fluorescent Lhx1a-EGFP transgene whose phenotype faithfully 
recapitulates that of the endogenous protein, we developed a high-content assay 
for Lhx1a-EGFP expression in transgenic zebrafish embryos employing an 
artificial intelligence-based image analysis method termed cognition network 
technology (CNT). Implementation of the CNT assay on high-content readers 
enabled automated real-time in vivo time-course, dose-response, and variability 
studies in the developing embryo. The Lhx1a assay was complemented with a 
kidney-specific secondary CNT assay that enables direct measurements of the 
embryonic renal tubule cell population. The integration of fluorescent 
transgenic zebrafish embryos with automated imaging and artificial 
intelligence-based image analysis provides an in vivo analysis system for 
structure-activity relationship studies and de novo discovery of novel agents 
that augment innate regenerative processes.

DOI: 10.1177/1087057113495296
PMCID: PMC3830658
PMID: 23832868 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


875. Psychol Rep. 2013 Apr;112(2):533-44. doi: 10.2466/04.03.PR0.112.2.533-544.

Is intelligence enhanced by letter priming? A failure to replicate the results 
of Ciani and Sheldon (2010).

Carlin SP(1), Standing LG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Bishop's University, 2600 College St., Sherbrooke, 
QC, Canada J1M 1Z7. seancarlin89@hotmail.com

Comment on
    Br J Educ Psychol. 2010 Mar;80(Pt 1):99-119.

Previous research has suggested that motivational processes outside an 
individual's conscious awareness may be primed so as to enhance or impair 
cognitive performance. The present study involved a conceptual replication of 
the 2010 study of Ciani and Sheldon (Experiments 1 and 2), employing the same 
materials and task, to test whether exposure to the letter A before an analogies 
test improved performance and the letter F impaired it, relative to the neutral 
letter J. It also examined the effect of pre-exposing participants before 
testing to a positive or negative verbal passage concerning letter grades. 
Priming was not found to have any effect: the participants (N = 116), under both 
pre-exposure conditions, gave analogies scores which were virtually identical 
whether they had been primed with A, F, or J, thus contradicting the previous 
results. It is concluded that there is a pressing need for more replications of 
priming experiments as well as other studies.

DOI: 10.2466/04.03.PR0.112.2.533-544
PMID: 23833881 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


876. Adv Child Dev Behav. 2013;44:285-306. doi: 10.1016/b978-0-12-397947-6.00010-6.

A contemporary view of genes and behavior: complex systems and interactions.

Wahlsten D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of North Carolina Greensboro, 
Greensboro, NC, USA. dlwahlst@uncg.edu

Several large-scale searches for genes that influence complex human traits, such 
as intelligence and personality, in the normal range of variation have failed to 
identify even one gene that makes a significant difference. All previously 
published claims for genetic influences of this kind now appear to have been 
false positives. For more serious psychiatric and medical disorders such as 
schizophrenia and autism, several genes have been found where a rare mutation 
contributes to abnormal behavior, but in many instances they are de novo 
mutations not obtained from a parent. Despite the many disappointments in the 
search for genes influencing human behavior, the field of molecular genetics has 
made remarkable progress to the extent that several broadly applicable 
principles can now be affirmed. These principles show how development is 
regulated by networks of interacting genes that function in an environmental 
context. They invalidate several key assumptions of statistical genetic analysis 
that are made when estimating heritability. There is now a need to reform the 
teaching of genetics to our students and to restrict the funding of further 
searches for elusive genes that account for so little variance in normal 
behaviors.

DOI: 10.1016/b978-0-12-397947-6.00010-6
PMID: 23834009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


877. Chronobiol Int. 2013 Oct;30(8):981-7. doi: 10.3109/07420528.2013.790397. Epub 
2013 Jul 8.

Circadian typology and emotional intelligence in healthy adults.

Antúnez JM(1), Navarro JF, Adan A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychobiology, School of Psychology, University of Málaga, 
Málaga, Spain.

Several aspects related to health, such as satisfaction with life, perceived 
well-being, and psychopathological symptomatology have been associated with 
circadian typology and with emotional intelligence. Nevertheless, the 
relationships between circadian typology and emotional intelligence have not 
been explored yet. The purpose of the present study is to examine the 
relationships between circadian typology and emotional intelligence, taking into 
account the possible interactions between sex and physical exercise, and 
controlling for age. A sample of 1011 participants (649 women), aged between 18 
and 50 yrs (26.92 ± 6.53) completed the reduced Morningness-Eveningness 
Questionnaire (rMEQ) and the Trait Meta-Mood Scale-24 (TMMS-24). The TMMS-24 
considers three dimensions of emotional intelligence: emotional attention, 
emotional clarity, and emotional repair. Women showed higher values for 
emotional attention, whereas men showed higher values for emotional repair (p < 
0.035, in both cases). Subjects who do physical exercise weekly showed higher 
values for emotional repair (p = 0.001) regardless of circadian typology or sex. 
Circadian typology presents differences in all scores of emotional intelligence 
dimensions. Morning-type had lower emotional attention than evening- and 
neither-type; neither-type had lower emotional repair than morning-type, and 
lower emotional clarity than both evening- and morning-type (p < 0.046, in all 
cases). Moreover, circadian typology modulated the sex differences in emotional 
attention, and only morning-type men showed a low emotional attention score. 
From the results of emotional intelligence we can conclude that morning typology 
may be a protective factor in terms of general health, whereas we should be 
aware that the neither-type may present a possible vulnerability to develop 
psychological problems.

DOI: 10.3109/07420528.2013.790397
PMID: 23834706 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


878. Nurse Educ Today. 2014 Apr;34(4):608-12. doi: 10.1016/j.nedt.2013.06.007. Epub 
2013 Jul 5.

Measured emotional intelligence ability and grade point average in nursing 
students.

Codier E(1), Odell E(2).

Author information:
(1)University of Hawaii, Manoa, 2528 McCarthy Mall, Webster Hall Rm 440, 
Honolulu, HI 96822, United States. Electronic address: codier@hawaii.edu.
(2)University of Arkansas, Eleanor Mann School of Nursing, 258 Epley Center for 
Health Professions, United States. Electronic address: eodell@uark.edu.

BACKGROUND: For most schools of nursing, grade point average is the most 
important criteria for admission to nursing school and constitutes the main 
indicator of success throughout the nursing program. In the general research 
literature, the relationship between traditional measures of academic success, 
such as grade point average and postgraduation job performance is not well 
established. In both the general population and among practicing nurses, 
measured emotional intelligence ability correlates with both performance and 
other important professional indicators postgraduation. Little research exists 
comparing traditional measures of intelligence with measured emotional 
intelligence prior to graduation, and none in the student nurse population.
OBJECTIVE: This exploratory, descriptive, quantitative study was undertaken to 
explore the relationship between measured emotional intelligence ability and 
grade point average of first year nursing students.
DESIGN SETTING AND SAMPLE: The study took place at a school of nursing at a 
university in the south central region of the United States. Participants 
included 72 undergraduate student nurse volunteers.
METHODS: Emotional intelligence was measured using the Mayer-Salovey-Caruso 
Emotional Intelligence Test, version 2, an instrument for quantifying emotional 
intelligence ability. Pre-admission grade point average was reported by the 
school records department.
RESULTS: Total emotional intelligence (r=.24) scores and one subscore, 
experiential emotional intelligence(r=.25) correlated significantly (>.05) with 
grade point average.
CONCLUSIONS: This exploratory, descriptive study provided evidence for some 
relationship between GPA and measured emotional intelligence ability, but also 
demonstrated lower than average range scores in several emotional intelligence 
scores. The relationship between pre-graduation measures of success and level of 
performance postgraduation deserves further exploration. The findings of this 
study suggest that research on the relationship between traditional and 
nontraditional measures of academic success, and emotional intelligence 
correlation with postgraduation performance, is warranted.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nedt.2013.06.007
PMID: 23835081 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


879. Twin Res Hum Genet. 2013 Aug;16(4):808-15. doi: 10.1017/thg.2013.44. Epub 2013 
Jul 9.

Twin-singleton differences in cognitive abilities in a sample of Africans in 
Nigeria.

Hur YM(1), Lynn R.

Author information:
(1)Mokpo National University, Jeonnam, South Korea. ymhur@mokpo.ac.kr

Recent studies comparing cognitive abilities between contemporary twins and 
singletons in developed countries have suggested that twin deficits in cognitive 
abilities no longer exist. We examined cognitive abilities in a sample of twins 
and singletons born recently in Nigeria to determine whether recent findings can 
be replicated in developing countries. Our sample consisted of 413 pairs of 
twins and 280 singletons collected from over 45 public schools in Abuja and its 
neighboring states in Nigeria. The ages of twins and singletons ranged from 9 to 
20 years with a mean (SD) of 14.6 years (2.2 years) for twins and 16.1 years 
(1.8 years) for singletons. Zygosity of the same-sex twins was determined by 
analysis of 16 deoxyribonucleic acid markers. We asked participants to complete 
a questionnaire booklet that included Standard Progressive Matrices-Plus Version 
(SPM+), Mill-Hill Vocabulary Scale (MHV), Family Assets Questionnaire, and 
demographic questions. The data were corrected for sex and age and then analyzed 
using maximum likelihood model-fitting analysis. Although twins and singletons 
were comparable in family social class indicators, singletons did better than 
twins across all the tests (d = 0.10 to 0.35). The average of d for SPM+ total 
[0.32; equivalent to 4.8 Intelligence Quotient (IQ) points] and d for MHV (0.24; 
equivalent to 3.6 IQ points) was 0.28 (equivalent to 4.2 IQ points), similar to 
the twin-singleton gap found in old cohorts in developed countries. We speculate 
that malnutrition, poor health, and educational systems in Nigeria may explain 
the persistence of twin deficits in cognitive abilities found in our sample.

DOI: 10.1017/thg.2013.44
PMID: 23835288 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


880. Adv Exp Med Biol. 2013;788:375-83. doi: 10.1007/978-94-007-6627-3_51.

Altruistic aptitude: age-dependent influence of temperament and emotional 
intelligence.

Pokorski M(1), Faron-Lasyk A, Borecki L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Respiratory Research, Medical Research Center, Polish Academy 
of Sciences, 5 Pawinskiego St., 02-106, Warsaw, Poland, m_pokorski@hotmail.com.

It is unclear why some people behave altruistically and others do not. This 
study seeks to determine what psychological features could help predict 
altruistic behavior. We addressed the issue by examining distinct dimensions of 
temperament and emotional intelligence and their associations with the level of 
proaltruistic aptitude in two distant age-groups, young (20-29 years) and senior 
(60-79 years) persons. The study was one of a self-reported psychometric survey. 
The major findings were that emotional intelligence, rather than temperament, is 
strongly associated with the expression of altruistic behavior in both young and 
senior subjects, despite a general decrease in the characteristics of emotional 
intelligence in advanced age. We also failed to substantiate the presence of an 
appreciable difference in the level of declared altruism between the senior and 
young subjects. High emotional intelligence, often underling social engagement 
and bonding, seems thus a good predictor of altruistic aptitude to be displayed 
by a person. The independence of this association of age-changes in emotional 
agility is suggestive of causal relationship. The study is relevant for an 
understanding of the enigmatic origins of important social behaviors like 
altruism.

DOI: 10.1007/978-94-007-6627-3_51
PMID: 23836001 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


881. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 2014 Apr;85(4):363-70. doi: 
10.1136/jnnp-2013-305078. Epub 2013 Jul 9.

Measuring cognitive change in subjects with prodromal Alzheimer's disease.

Mura T(1), Proust-Lima C, Jacqmin-Gadda H, Akbaraly TN, Touchon J, Dubois B, 
Berr C.

Author information:
(1)INSERM, U1061, Neuropsychiatrie: Recherche Epidémiologique et Clinique, , 
Montpellier, Cedex, France.

Comment in
    J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 2014 Apr;85(4):358.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the sensitivity of a large set of neuropsychological 
tests to detect cognitive changes due to prodromal Alzheimer's disease(AD); to 
compare their metrological properties in order to select a restricted number of 
these tests for the longitudinal follow-up of subjects with prodromal AD.
PARTICIPANTS: 212 patients with mild cognitive impairment were tested at 
baseline by a standardised neuropsychological battery, which included: the Free 
and Cued Selective Reminding test (FCSRT), the Benton Visual Retention test, the 
Deno100, verbal fluency, a serial digit learning test, the double task of 
Baddeley, the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale (WAIS) similarities, the 
Trail-Making Test and the WAIS digit symbol test. Patients were monitored every 
6 months for up to 3 years in order to identify those who converted to AD 
(retrospectively classified as prodromal AD). Statistical analyses were 
performed using a nonlinear multivariate mixed model involving a latent process. 
This model assumes that the psychometric tests are nonlinear transformations of 
a common latent cognitive process, and it captures the metrological properties 
of tests.
RESULTS: 57 patients converted to AD. The most sensitive tests in the detection 
of cognitive changes due to prodromal AD were the FCSRT, the semantic verbal 
fluency and the Deno100. Some tests exhibited a higher sensitivity to cognitive 
changes for subjects with high levels of cognition, such as the free recall, 
delayed free recall scores of the FCSRT and the semantic verbal fluency, whereas 
others showed a higher sensitivity at low levels of cognition, such as the total 
recall score of the FCSRT.
CONCLUSIONS: Tests used for the follow-up of prodromal AD subjects should be 
chosen among those that actually decline in this stage of the disease and should 
be selected according to the subject's initial scores.

DOI: 10.1136/jnnp-2013-305078
PMCID: PMC5225268
PMID: 23840054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Statement: The authors have no conflict of 
interest to declare.


882. PLoS One. 2013 Jun 26;8(6):e66359. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0066359. Print 
2013.

Group Size Predicts Social but Not Nonsocial Cognition in Lemurs.

Maclean EL(1), Sandel AA, Bray J, Oldenkamp RE, Reddy RB, Hare BA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Evolutionary Anthropology, Duke University, Durham, North 
Carolina, United States of America.

The social intelligence hypothesis suggests that living in large social networks 
was the primary selective pressure for the evolution of complex cognition in 
primates. This hypothesis is supported by comparative studies demonstrating a 
positive relationship between social group size and relative brain size across 
primates. However, the relationship between brain size and cognition remains 
equivocal. Moreover, there have been no experimental studies directly testing 
the association between group size and cognition across primates. We tested the 
social intelligence hypothesis by comparing 6 primate species (total N = 96) 
characterized by different group sizes on two cognitive tasks. Here, we show 
that a species' typical social group size predicts performance on cognitive 
measures of social cognition, but not a nonsocial measure of inhibitory control. 
We also show that a species' mean brain size (in absolute or relative terms) 
does not predict performance on either task in these species. These data provide 
evidence for a relationship between group size and social cognition in primates, 
and reveal the potential for cognitive evolution without concomitant changes in 
brain size. Furthermore our results underscore the need for more empirical 
studies of animal cognition, which have the power to reveal species differences 
in cognition not detectable by proxy variables, such as brain size.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0066359
PMCID: PMC3694165
PMID: 23840450 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


883. PLoS One. 2013 Jun 28;8(6):e67107. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0067107. Print 
2013.

Cognitive function in adult offspring of women with gestational diabetes--the 
role of glucose and other factors.

Clausen TD(1), Mortensen EL, Schmidt L, Mathiesen ER, Hansen T, Jensen DM, Damm 
P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Hilleroed Hospital, University of 
Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark. tine.dalsgaard.clausen@dadlnet.dk

OBJECTIVE: We aimed to evaluate cognitive function in adult offspring of women 
with diet-treated gestational diabetes and to study potential associations with 
maternal glucose values.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In 2003-2005 cognitive function was assessed in a cohort 
of 18-27 year old offspring of women with diet-treated gestational diabetes 
mellitus (n = 153) and offspring from the background population (n = 118). The 
main outcome measure was global cognitive score derived from Raven's Progressive 
Matrices and three verbal subtests from the Weschler Adult Intelligence Scale. 
Maternal fasting- and 2-hour blood glucose values from the diagnostic oral 
glucose tolerance test were used as exposure variables.
RESULTS: Offspring of women with gestational diabetes mellitus had a lower 
global cognitive score, than offspring from the background population (93.1 vs. 
100.0, P<0.001). However, when adjusted for maternal age at delivery, parity, 
smoking during pregnancy, pre-pregnancy overweight, family social class, 
parental educational level, gender, birth weight, gestational age, perinatal 
complications and offspring age at follow-up, the difference was no longer 
statistically significant. Offspring global cognitive score decreased 
significantly with increasing maternal fasting glucose (β = -4.5, 95% CI -8.0 to 
-0.9, P = 0.01) and 2-hour glucose (β = -1.5, -2.9 to -0.2, P = 0.03) in 
univariate general linear models, but not when adjusted for family social class 
and parental educational level.
CONCLUSIONS: Lower cognitive test scores in adult offspring of women with 
diet-treated gestational diabetes were explained by well known predictors of 
cognitive function, but not by maternal hyperglycaemia during pregnancy. We find 
it reassuring that mild intrauterine hyperglycaemia does not seem to have 
adverse effect on offspring cognitive function.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0067107
PMCID: PMC3695979
PMID: 23840595 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


884. PLoS One. 2013 Jul 1;8(7):e66730. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0066730. Print 2013.

The reading of components of diabetic retinopathy: an evolutionary approach for 
filtering normal digital fundus imaging in screening and population based 
studies.

Tang HL(1), Goh J, Peto T, Ling BW, Al Turk LI, Hu Y, Wang S, Saleh GM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Computing, University of Surrey, Guildford, Surrey, United 
Kingdom. h.tang@surrey.ac.uk

Erratum in
    PLoS One. 2015;10(3):e0119344.

In any diabetic retinopathy screening program, about two-thirds of patients have 
no retinopathy. However, on average, it takes a human expert about one and a 
half times longer to decide an image is normal than to recognize an abnormal 
case with obvious features. In this work, we present an automated system for 
filtering out normal cases to facilitate a more effective use of grading time. 
The key aim with any such tool is to achieve high sensitivity and specificity to 
ensure patients' safety and service efficiency. There are many challenges to 
overcome, given the variation of images and characteristics to identify. The 
system combines computed evidence obtained from various processing stages, 
including segmentation of candidate regions, classification and contextual 
analysis through Hidden Markov Models. Furthermore, evolutionary algorithms are 
employed to optimize the Hidden Markov Models, feature selection and 
heterogeneous ensemble classifiers. In order to evaluate its capability of 
identifying normal images across diverse populations, a population-oriented 
study was undertaken comparing the software's output to grading by humans. In 
addition, population based studies collect large numbers of images on subjects 
expected to have no abnormality. These studies expect timely and cost-effective 
grading. Altogether 9954 previously unseen images taken from various populations 
were tested. All test images were masked so the automated system had not been 
exposed to them before. This system was trained using image subregions taken 
from about 400 sample images. Sensitivities of 92.2% and specificities of 90.4% 
were achieved varying between populations and population clusters. Of all images 
the automated system decided to be normal, 98.2% were true normal when compared 
to the manual grading results. These results demonstrate scalability and strong 
potential of such an integrated computational intelligence system as an 
effective tool to assist a grading service.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0066730
PMCID: PMC3698085
PMID: 23840865 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


885. Child Maltreat. 2013 Aug;18(3):155-70. doi: 10.1177/1077559513496144. Epub 2013 
Jul 10.

The impact of neglect on initial adaptation to school.

Manly JT(1), Lynch M, Oshri A, Herzog M, Wortel SN.

Author information:
(1)Mt. Hope Family Center, University of Rochester, Rochester, NY 14608, USA. 
jody.manly@rochester.edu

This study examined the impact of child neglect during the first 4 years of life 
on adaptation to school during kindergarten and first grade in the context of 
neighborhood poverty (NP). Processes related to the development of school 
competencies were examined, including the mediational role of cognitive 
functioning and ego-resiliency (ER) in shaping children's school outcomes. A 
total of 170 low-income urban children were followed prospectively for 2 years 
(ages 4-6). Results indicated that neglected children had significantly lower 
scores on kindergarten classroom behavior and first-grade academic performance 
than nonneglected children. Children's cognitive performance at age 4, 
controlling for maternal intelligence quotient, mediated the relation between 
severity of neglect and children's behavior in kindergarten as well as their 
academic performance in first grade. Moreover, severity of neglect was related 
to children's ER at age 4. However, additional ecological adversity in the form 
of NP moderated the link between ER and classroom behavior, such that at lower 
levels of poverty, ER mediated the relation between severity of neglect and 
school adaptation. Conversely, when NP was extreme, the effects of ER were 
attenuated and ER ceased to predict behavioral performance in kindergarten. The 
implications of these findings for prevention and intervention are discussed.

DOI: 10.1177/1077559513496144
PMCID: PMC3775317
PMID: 23843472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


886. ScientificWorldJournal. 2013 Jun 10;2013:240158. doi: 10.1155/2013/240158. Print 
2013.

Prediction of heavy metal removal by different liner materials from landfill 
leachate: modeling of experimental results using artificial intelligence 
technique.

Turan NG(1), Gümüşel EB, Ozgonenel O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Engineering, Engineering Faculty, Ondokuz Mays 
University, Kurupelit, 55139 Samsun, Turkey.

An intensive study has been made to see the performance of the different liner 
materials with bentonite on the removal efficiency of Cu(II) and Zn(II) from 
industrial leachate. An artificial neural network (ANN) was used to display the 
significant levels of the analyzed liner materials on the removal efficiency. 
The statistical analysis proves that the effect of natural zeolite was 
significant by a cubic spline model with a 99.93% removal efficiency. 
Optimization of liner materials was achieved by minimizing bentonite mixtures, 
which were costly, and maximizing Cu(II) and Zn(II) removal efficiency. The 
removal efficiencies were calculated as 45.07% and 48.19% for Cu(II) and Zn(II), 
respectively, when only bentonite was used as liner material. However, 60% of 
natural zeolite with 40% of bentonite combination was found to be the best for 
Cu(II) removal (95%), and 80% of vermiculite and pumice with 20% of bentonite 
combination was found to be the best for Zn(II) removal (61.24% and 65.09%). 
Similarly, 60% of natural zeolite with 40% of bentonite combination was found to 
be the best for Zn(II) removal (89.19%), and 80% of vermiculite and pumice with 
20% of bentonite combination was found to be the best for Zn(II) removal (82.76% 
and 74.89%).

DOI: 10.1155/2013/240158
PMCID: PMC3691900
PMID: 23844384 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


887. Clin Genet. 2014 Aug;86(2):172-6. doi: 10.1111/cge.12236. Epub 2013 Jul 28.

Whole-exome sequencing expands the phenotype of Hunter syndrome.

Nikkel SM(1), Huang L, Lachman R, Beaulieu CL, Schwartzentruber J, Majewski J, 
Geraghty MT, Boycott KM; FORGE Canada Consortium.

Collaborators: Boycott K, Friedman J, Michaud J, Bernier F, Brudno M, Fernandez 
B, Knoppers B, Samuels M, Scherer S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics, Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario, Ottawa, ON, 
Canada; University of Ottawa, Ottawa, ON, Canada.

Whole-exome sequencing (WES) has proven its utility in finding novel genes 
associated with rare conditions and its usefulness is being further demonstrated 
in expanding the phenotypes of well known diseases. We present here a family 
with a previously undiagnosed X-linked condition characterized by progressive 
restriction of joint range of motion, prominence of the supraorbital ridge, 
audiology issues and hernias. They had an average stature, normal 
occipitofrontal circumference and intelligence, absence of dysostosis multiplex 
and otherwise good health. A diagnosis of Hunter syndrome was determined using 
WES and further supported by biochemical investigations. The phenotype of this 
family does not correspond to either the severe or attenuated clinical subtypes 
of Hunter syndrome. As further atypical families are reported, this 
classification will need to be modified. Our findings highlight the utility of 
WES in expanding the recognized phenotypic spectrum of known syndromes.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cge.12236
PMID: 23844659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


888. Cortex. 2013 Sep;49(8):2264-71. doi: 10.1016/j.cortex.2013.06.001. Epub 2013 Jun 
19.

Cortical surface area and IQ in very-low-birth-weight (VLBW) young adults.

Skranes J(1), Løhaugen GC, Martinussen M, Håberg A, Brubakk AM, Dale AM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Children's and Women's Health, Faculty of 
Medicine, Norwegian University of Science and Technology, Trondheim, Norway. 
jon.skranes@ntnu.no

INTRODUCTION: Quantitative MRI measurements have revealed abnormalities in 
cortical development in children born preterm with very-low-birth-weight (VLBW). 
These children also have increased risk of cognitive deficits that persist into 
adulthood. The aim of this study was to investigate cortical surface area in 
VLBW young adults at age 19 compared with controls and to see whether surface 
area change was associated with cognitive function in the VLBW group.
METHODS: Thirty-eight VLBW (BW ≤ 1500 g) and 59 control participants were 
included in the study. Cognitive function was assessed by Wechsler Adult 
Intelligence Scale (WAIS)-III. The MRI scanning was performed at 1.5 T, and for 
the morphometric analyses of cortical surface area the FreeSurfer software was 
used.
RESULTS: Reduction in cortical surface area was seen in ventrolateral 
prefrontal, temporal and parietal regions in the VLBW group. Intelligence 
quotient (IQ) scores were reduced and correlated with surface area reduction in 
superior and inferior frontal gyri, and in medial temporal and occipital regions 
in the VLBW group. Brodmann areas (BAs) included in the group differences and in 
the IQ correlation in the VLBW group were located to the inferior frontal gyrus 
(BA 11, 12, 44, 45, 47), isthmus (BA 25), the superior parietal (BA 7), the 
inferior temporal (BA 20) and the parahippocampal gyri (BA 28, 34, 35, 36, 37). 
The IQ indices that made the largest contribution to the associations between IQ 
and surface areal change in the VLBW group were the Working Memory and the 
Processing Speed indices.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study indicates that permanent deviations in cortical surface 
area still present in adulthood may explain the increased prevalence of 
cognitive impairments in preterm born VLBW individuals.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cortex.2013.06.001
PMID: 23845237 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


889. Schizophr Res. 2013 Sep;149(1-3):77-82. doi: 10.1016/j.schres.2013.06.006. Epub 
2013 Jul 9.

Social cognitive performance as a marker of positive psychotic symptoms in young 
people seeking help for mental health problems.

Guastella AJ(1), Hermens DF, Van Zwieten A, Naismith SL, Lee RS, Cacciotti-Saija 
C, Scott EM, Hickie IB.

Author information:
(1)Brain & Mind Research Institute, University of Sydney, NSW, Australia. 
adam.guastella@sydney.edu.au

Previous research has suggested that psychotic symptoms are associated with 
impairments in social cognition. However, there is limited research evaluating 
this association in the context of younger patients with a broad range of mental 
health problems. In the present study, we evaluated social cognitive performance 
in 115 treatment-seeking participants who presented to a youth mental health 
service with affective or psychotic disturbances. Participants completed symptom 
severity measures, a social cognition task (the Reading the Mind in the Eyes 
Test (RMET)), and a standardised battery of neuropsychological tests. Analyses 
based on diagnostic groups showed that patients with psychotic illnesses (n=23) 
showed impaired performance on the RMET compared to patients with primarily 
bipolar (n=40) and depressive illnesses (n=52). Performance on the RMET was 
negatively correlated with positive and negative psychotic symptoms, but not 
affective and anxiety symptoms. Performance on the RMET also was the strongest 
concurrent predictor of positive psychotic symptoms in a regression model that 
also included predicted intelligence, demographic variables, and neurocognition. 
RMET performance did not, however, predict negative symptoms above tests of 
sustained attention and verbal learning, nor was performance associated with any 
other symptoms of mental illness. Social cognitive impairments may provide a 
valuable marker for the presence of positive psychotic symptoms in young people 
with mental illness. Additionally, these impairments may have a role in the 
aetiology and maintenance of psychotic symptoms. Research is now needed to 
establish the nature of the relationship between social cognition and psychotic 
symptoms across different facets of social cognition. Research is also needed to 
investigate whether targeted social cognition treatments reduce risk for the 
development of positive psychotic symptoms.

Crown Copyright © 2013. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.schres.2013.06.006
PMID: 23845388 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


890. J Pediatr Endocrinol Metab. 2013;26(11-12):1111-21. doi: 10.1515/jpem-2013-0145.

Cognitive impairment and gray/white matter volume abnormalities in pediatric 
patients with Turner syndrome presenting with various karyotypes.

Zhao Q, Zhang Z, Xie S, Pan H, Zhang J, Gong G, Cui Z.

AIM: To investigate the association between cognitive impairment and gray/white 
matter volume abnormalities in pediatric patients with Turner syndrome (TS) 
presenting with various karyotypes.
METHODS: In the present study, 21 pediatric patients with TS and the 45,X 
karyotype, 24 pediatric patients with TS and other karyotypes, and 20 normal 
healthy controls, underwent the Wechsler intelligence test, behavioral testing, 
and a 3.0 T magnetic resonance (MR) scan. Whole-brain high-resolution 
T1-weighted images were processed with SPM8 software and analyzed using 
voxel-based morphometry (VBM); differences in gray/white matter volume between 
the TS groups and healthy controls were compared using analysis of covariance.
RESULTS: Pediatric patients in both TS groups had significantly lower IQ scores 
compared to the normal controls (p<0.05). Furthermore, both TS groups scored 
significantly less than the normal controls in various composite tests of 
cognitive function, including verbal comprehension, perceptual reasoning, 
working memory, and processing speed (p<0.05). There were no significant 
differences between the two TS patient groups in terms of their scores for 
verbal comprehension, perceptual reasoning, working memory, and processing 
speed. However, they did display significant differences in the following tests: 
accuracy and reaction times in the executive control test, reaction times in the 
short-, middle-, and long-term attention test, and accuracy in the long-term 
attention test. Patients in the 45,X karyotype group displayed decreased gray 
matter volume in the bilateral cuneus, calcarine sulcus postcentral gyrus, right 
precuneus, superior parietal lobule, lingual gyrus, left precentral gyrus, and 
cingulate gyrus. However, gray matter volume was increased in the bilateral 
dorsal midbrain, orbital frontal gyrus, left insular lobe, superior temporal 
gyrus, inferior temporal gyrus, parahippocampal gyrus, cerebellum, posterior 
insular lobe, right caudate nucleus, putamen, and temporal pole. Patients with 
TS with other karyotypes exhibited decreased gray matter volume in the left 
precuneus, cingulate gyrus, right postcentral gyrus, supramarginal gyrus, 
angular gyrus, and cuneus; contrastingly, gray matter volume increased in both 
the epencephals, left caudate nucleus, superior temporal gyrus, right insular 
lobe, and temporal pole. All volume differences were statistically significant 
when compared with normal controls [familywise error (FWE)-corrected p<0.05]. 
With regard to the two TS groups, gray matter volume in the left hippocampus and 
left caudate nucleus was significantly decreased in the 45,X karyotype group 
compared to patients with TS with other karyotypes (FWE-corrected p<0.05); 
conversely, gray matter volume in the right supramarginal gyrus was increased in 
the 45,X karyotype group (FWE-corrected p<0.05).
CONCLUSION: Pediatric patients with TS display a lower level of intelligence 
compared to healthy controls, this is complicated by verbal and non-verbal 
cognitive impairment. The neuropathological basis of such cognitive deficiencies 
may be as a result of abnormalities in gray matter development.

DOI: 10.1515/jpem-2013-0145
PMID: 23846137 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


891. Psychol Sci. 2013 Sep;24(9):1831-6. doi: 10.1177/0956797613478615. Epub 2013 Jul 
11.

Creativity and technical innovation: spatial ability's unique role.

Kell HJ(1), Lubinski D, Benbow CP, Steiger JH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology and Human Development, Vanderbilt University.

In the late 1970s, 563 intellectually talented 13-year-olds (identified by the 
SAT as in the top 0.5% of ability) were assessed on spatial ability. More than 
30 years later, the present study evaluated whether spatial ability provided 
incremental validity (beyond the SAT's mathematical and verbal reasoning 
subtests) for differentially predicting which of these individuals had patents 
and three classes of refereed publications. A two-step discriminant-function 
analysis revealed that the SAT subtests jointly accounted for 10.8% of the 
variance among these outcomes (p < .01); when spatial ability was added, an 
additional 7.6% was accounted for--a statistically significant increase (p < 
.01). The findings indicate that spatial ability has a unique role in the 
development of creativity, beyond the roles played by the abilities 
traditionally measured in educational selection, counseling, and 
industrial-organizational psychology. Spatial ability plays a key and unique 
role in structuring many important psychological phenomena and should be 
examined more broadly across the applied and basic psychological sciences.

DOI: 10.1177/0956797613478615
PMID: 23846718 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


892. Aging Clin Exp Res. 2013 Aug;25(4):473-8. doi: 10.1007/s40520-013-0067-0. Epub 
2013 Jul 12.

Diogenes syndrome or isolated syllogomania? Four heterogeneous clinical cases.

Zuliani G(1), Soavi C, Dainese A, Milani P, Gatti M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, Section of Internal 
Medicine, Gerontology, and Clinical Nutrition, University of Ferrara, Ferrara, 
Italy. gzuliani@hotmail.com

Diogenes syndrome (DS) is an acquired behavioural disturbance more often 
affecting elderly patients, but possible in all ages. It is characterised by 
social withdrawal, extreme self and house neglect, tendency to hoard any kind of 
objects/rubbish (syllogomania), and rejection against external help for lack of 
concern about one's condition. It is considered infrequent, but with quite high 
mortality. DS might be divided into several forms including Active (the patient 
gathers objects outside and accumulates them inside his house), Passive (patient 
invaded by his own rubbish), "à deux" (DS sharing between two people), and 
"under-threshold" (DS "blocked" by precocious intervention). Four cases are here 
presented. In case 1 (passive DS) alcoholism and cognitive impairment could be 
trigger factors for DS, predisposed by a "personality alteration". In case 2 
(active, "à trois") superimposed psychosis could be the trigger, borderline 
intelligence being the predisposing factor. In case 3 (active), fronto-parietal 
internal hyperostosis might support an organic aetiology. Finally, case 4 was an 
example of isolated syllogomania in patient with evolving Alzheimer's dementia. 
Despite being heterogeneous, our casuistry suggest that DS can develop in both 
sexes, is prevalent in geriatric age and often associated with cognitive 
impairment/psychiatric disturbances, which are not specific, nor sufficient to 
justify DS. Isolated syllogomania only shares the characteristic hoarding with 
DS; although cognitive impairment might be present, the other DS typical aspects 
(social isolation, help refusal, characterial aspects, personal hygiene neglect) 
are absent.

DOI: 10.1007/s40520-013-0067-0
PMID: 23846849 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


893. Neuropsychiatr Dis Treat. 2013;9:921-6. doi: 10.2147/NDT.S46772. Epub 2013 Jun 
26.

Visuomotor competencies and primary monosymptomatic nocturnal enuresis in 
prepubertal aged children.

Esposito M(1), Gallai B, Parisi L, Roccella M, Marotta R, Lavano SM, Mazzotta G, 
Patriciello G, Precenzano F, Carotenuto M.

Author information:
(1)Clinic of Child and Adolescent Neuropsychiatry, Department of Mental Health, 
Physical and Preventive Medicine, Second University of Naples, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Primary monosymptomatic nocturnal enuresis (PMNE) is a common 
problem in the developmental ages; it is the involuntary loss of urine during 
the night in children older than 5 years of age. Several clinical observations 
have suggested an association between bedwetting and developmental delays in 
motricity, language development, learning disability, physical growth, and 
skeletal maturation. The aim of the present study is to evaluate the prevalence 
of fine motor coordination and visuomotor integration abnormalities in 
prepubertal children with PMNE.
METHODS: The study population included 31 children (16 males, 15 females; mean 
age 8.14 years ± 1.36 years), and the control group comprised 61 typical 
developing children (32 males, 29 females; mean age 8.03 years ± 1.44 years). 
The whole population underwent a clinical evaluation to assess total 
intelligence quotient level, visuomotor integration (VMI) skills, and motor 
coordination performance (using the Movement Assessment Battery for Children, or 
M-ABC).
RESULTS: No significant differences between the two study groups were found for 
age (P = 0.725), gender (P = 0.886), z-body mass index (P = 0.149), or 
intellectual abilities (total intelligence quotient) (P = 0.163). The PMNE group 
showed a higher prevalence of borderline performance on M-ABC evaluation and in 
pathologic performance on VMI Total Task compared to controls (P < 0.001). No 
significant differences between the two study groups were found for pathologic 
performances on the M-ABC (P = 0.07), VMI Visual Task (P = 0.793), and VMI Motor 
Task (P = 0.213).
CONCLUSION: Our findings pinpointed that PMNE should not be considered as a 
voiding disorder alone and, consequently, the children affected should be 
referred to specific rehabilitative programs that aim to improve motor 
coordination and visuomotor integration.

DOI: 10.2147/NDT.S46772
PMCID: PMC3700782
PMID: 23847418


894. Front Psychol. 2013 Jul 4;4:395. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2013.00395. eCollection 
2013.

The causes of variation in learning and behavior: why individual differences 
matter.

Sauce B(1), Matzel LD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Rutgers University Piscataway, NJ, USA.

IN A SEMINAL PAPER WRITTEN FIVE DECADES AGO, CRONBACH DISCUSSED THE TWO HIGHLY 
DISTINCT APPROACHES TO SCIENTIFIC PSYCHOLOGY: experimental and correlational. 
Today, although these two approaches are fruitfully implemented and embraced 
across some fields of psychology, this synergy is largely absent from other 
areas, such as in the study of learning and behavior. Both Tolman and Hull, in a 
rare case of agreement, stated that the correlational approach held little 
promise for the understanding of behavior. Interestingly, this dismissal of the 
study of individual differences was absent in the biologically oriented branches 
of behavior analysis, namely, behavioral genetics and ethology. Here we propose 
that the distinction between "causation" and "causes of variation" (with its 
origins in the field of genetics) reveals the potential value of the 
correlational approach in understanding the full complexity of learning and 
behavior. Although the experimental approach can illuminate the causal variables 
that modulate learning, the analysis of individual differences can elucidate how 
much and in which way variables interact to support variations in learning in 
complex natural environments. For example, understanding that a past experience 
with a stimulus influences its "associability" provides little insight into how 
individual predispositions interact to modulate this influence on associability. 
In this "new" light, we discuss examples from studies of individual differences 
in animals' performance in the Morris water maze and from our own work on 
individual differences in general intelligence in mice. These studies illustrate 
that, opposed to what Underwood famously suggested, studies of individual 
differences can do much more to psychology than merely providing preliminary 
indications of cause-effect relationships.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2013.00395
PMCID: PMC3701147
PMID: 23847569


895. Front Psychol. 2013 Jul 1;4:396. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2013.00396. eCollection 
2013.

Reconsidering the evolution of brain, cognition, and behavior in birds and 
mammals.

Willemet R(1).

Author information:
(1)Unaffiliated Toulouse, France.

Despite decades of research, some of the most basic issues concerning the 
extraordinarily complex brains and behavior of birds and mammals, such as the 
factors responsible for the diversity of brain size and composition, are still 
unclear. This is partly due to a number of conceptual and methodological issues. 
Determining species and group differences in brain composition requires 
accounting for the presence of taxon-cerebrotypes and the use of precise 
statistical methods. The role of allometry in determining brain variables should 
be revised. In particular, bird and mammalian brains appear to have evolved in 
response to a variety of selective pressures influencing both brain size and 
composition. "Brain" and "cognition" are indeed meta-variables, made up of the 
variables that are ecologically relevant and evolutionarily selected. External 
indicators of species differences in cognition and behavior are limited by the 
complexity of these differences. Indeed, behavioral differences between species 
and individuals are caused by cognitive and affective components. Although 
intra-species variability forms the basis of species evolution, some of the 
mechanisms underlying individual differences in brain and behavior appear to 
differ from those between species. While many issues have persisted over the 
years because of a lack of appropriate data or methods to test them; several 
fallacies, particularly those related to the human brain, reflect scientists' 
preconceptions. The theoretical framework on the evolution of brain, cognition, 
and behavior in birds and mammals should be reconsidered with these biases in 
mind.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2013.00396
PMCID: PMC3696912
PMID: 23847570


896. Am J Case Rep. 2013 Jul 1;14:226-9. doi: 10.12659/AJCR.889168. Print 2013.

Listeria septicemia accompanied by central nervous system involvement in a 
patient with multiple myeloma and secondary diabetes.

Hu R(1), Li J, Yao K, Miao M, Zhu K, Liu Z.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Shengjing Hospital, China Medical University, 
Shenyang,China.

PATIENT: Female, 58 FINAL DIAGNOSIS: Listeria septicemia Symptoms: Nausea • 
vomitting • high fever • apathetic intelligence • repeated convulsion
MEDICATION: Levofloxacin Clinical Procedure: - Specialty: Hematology Objective: 
Rare disease.
BACKGROUND: Multiple myeloma is a hematological malignancy that frequently 
causes secondary diabetes due to chemotherapy using hormones and infection due 
to immunosuppression.
CASE REPORTS: The patient was a 58-year-old woman with multiple myeloma and 
secondary diabetes complicated by listeria septicemia accompanied by central 
nervous system involvement. She initially received moxalactam and etimicin 
sulfate, but blood cultures detected Listeria monocytogenes. Levofloxacin was 
administered, but the symptoms did not improve. The patient ultimately died.
CONCLUSIONS: Listeria septicemia accompanied by central nervous system 
involvement in a patient with multiple myeloma and secondary diabetes is a 
relatively rare disease. Prevention, timely diagnosis, and treatment are the key 
steps for improvement. Blood glucose level control is another important factor 
that should be considered in the prevention and treatment for Listeria 
monocytogenes infection.

DOI: 10.12659/AJCR.889168
PMCID: PMC3702689
PMID: 23847709


897. Appl Neuropsychol Child. 2013;2(2):82-7. doi: 10.1080/21622965.2013.748388. Epub 
2013 Jan 28.

Development of metacognitive and emotional executive functions in children.

Ardila A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Communication Sciences and Disorders, Florida International 
University, Miami, Florida 33199, USA. ardilaa@fiu.edu

It has been proposed that two major components of executive functions can be 
distinguished: (1) one related to complex cognition (metacognition, such as 
planning, problem solving, etc.); (2) the other related to coordinating and 
controlling emotional behavior. Contemporary neuroimaging techniques have 
demonstrated that there are two distinct functional-anatomical networks within 
the prefrontal cortex: one associated with cognitive control and the other 
associated with value based decision making-each related to specific 
frontal-lobe areas. Metacognitive (but not emotional) executive functions have 
been demonstrated to be correlated with general intellectual level 
(intelligence). Research has shown that emotional executive functions (such as 
attention control) develop earlier in life (during the 1st year), before the 
development of metacognitive executive functions (such as planning and verbal 
fluency), which develop around the age of 3 and are correlated with the 
development of a grammatical language.

DOI: 10.1080/21622965.2013.748388
PMID: 23848243 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


898. J Aging Stud. 2013 Aug;27(3):243-51. doi: 10.1016/j.jaging.2013.04.001. Epub 
2013 May 24.

Aging male bodies, health and the reproduction of age relations.

Pietilä I(1), Ojala H, King N, Calasanti T.

Author information:
(1)Gerontology Research Center, University of Tampere, FI-33014, Finland. 
ilkka.pietila@uta.fi

This article explores the ways in which a group of male factory workers uses 
bodies as bases for hierarchical categorization of men by age in their talk of 
mundane aspects of their lives. Analysis of interviews about health (4 focus 
groups and 5 personal interviews) with Finnish working-class men under 40 years 
old shows that they portray age groups to which they do not belong as careless, 
even irresponsible toward health and its maintenance. As they categorize youth 
and old people by age, they leave themselves unmarked by it, providing no 
vocabulary to describe their own group. Despite their tendency to distance 
themselves particularly from old people, they also distinguish among older men 
by familiarity, providing relatively nuanced accounts of their fathers' aging. 
We discuss the marking of age groups in terms of social inequality and talk of 
fathers in terms of intergenerational relations. Even family ties among men of 
diverse ages involve ageism, which familiarity serves both to mitigate and to 
make less visible. This article documents the maintenance of age inequality in 
everyday, mundane behavior.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jaging.2013.04.001
PMID: 23849422 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


899. Neurobiol Aging. 2013 Dec;34(12):2740-7. doi: 
10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2013.05.032. Epub 2013 Jul 11.

Brain white matter damage in aging and cognitive ability in youth and older age.

Valdés Hernández Mdel C(1), Booth T, Murray C, Gow AJ, Penke L, Morris Z, 
Maniega SM, Royle NA, Aribisala BS, Bastin ME, Starr JM, Deary IJ, Wardlaw JM.

Author information:
(1)Brain Research Imaging Centre, Department of Clinical Neurosciences, 
University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK; Centre for Cognitive Ageing and 
Cognitive Epidemiology, University of Edinburgh, UK.

Cerebral white matter hyperintensities (WMH) reflect accumulating white matter 
damage with aging and impair cognition. The role of childhood intelligence is 
rarely considered in associations between cognitive impairment and WMH. We 
studied community-dwelling older people all born in 1936, in whom IQ had been 
assessed at age 11 years. We assessed medical histories, current cognitive 
ability and quantified WMH on MR imaging. Among 634 participants, mean age 72.7 
(SD 0.7), age 11 IQ was the strongest predictor of late life cognitive ability. 
After accounting for age 11 IQ, greater WMH load was significantly associated 
with lower late life general cognitive ability (β = -0.14, p < 0.01) and 
processing speed (β = -0.19, p < 0.001). WMH were also associated independently 
with lower age 11 IQ (β = -0.08, p < 0.05) and hypertension. In conclusion, 
having more WMH is significantly associated with lower cognitive ability, after 
accounting for prior ability, age 11IQ. Early-life IQ also influenced WMH in 
later life. Determining how lower IQ in youth leads to increasing brain damage 
with aging is important for future successful cognitive aging.

Copyright © 2013 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2013.05.032
PMCID: PMC3898072
PMID: 23850341 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


900. Early Hum Dev. 2013 Oct;89(10):787-93. doi: 10.1016/j.earlhumdev.2013.06.007. 
Epub 2013 Jul 11.

Assessment of motor behaviour in high-risk-infants at 3 months predicts motor 
and cognitive outcomes in 10 years old children.

Fjørtoft T(1), Grunewaldt KH, Løhaugen GC, Mørkved S, Skranes J, Evensen KA.

Author information:
(1)Dept of Clinical Services, St. Olav University Hospital, Trondheim, Norway. 
toril.fjortoft@stolav.no

BACKGROUND: The general movement assessment has mainly been used to identify 
children with cerebral palsy (CP). A detailed assessment of quality of infant 
motor repertoire using parts of the "Assessment of Motor Repertoire - 3 to 5 
Months" which is based on Prechtl's general movement assessment can possibly 
identify later motor and cognitive problems in children without CP.
AIMS: This study aims to determine whether analysis of quality of infant motor 
repertoire has predictive value for motor and cognitive outcomes at age 10 in 
children at risk for later neurological impairment.
STUDY DESIGN: A longitudinal study design was used.
SUBJECTS: Video-recordings of 40 "neurologically high-risk" infants at 14 weeks 
post-term age were analysed with respect to motor repertoire.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Fidgety movements were classified as present or absent. 
Quality of concurrent motor repertoire was classified as normal if smooth and 
fluent and abnormal if jerky, monotonous or stiff. Poor motor outcome was 
defined as a score ≤ 5th centile on the Movement-Assessment-Battery-2, while 
poor cognitive outcome as total IQ <85 on Wechsler Intelligence Scale-III.
RESULTS: Among the high-risk children with presence of fidgety movements, poor 
motor and/or cognitive outcome at 10 years was identified by abnormal concurrent 
motor repertoire at 14 weeks post-term age in 86% (95% CI: 0.60-0.96) of the 
children. On the other hand, 71% (95% CI: 0.47-0.87) of those with normal motor 
and cognitive outcomes were identified by presence of fidgety movements and 
normal motor repertoire.
CONCLUSIONS: Assessment of quality of infant motor repertoire may be a valuable 
early clinical marker for later impaired motor and cognitive outcomes in 
high-risk children who do not develop CP.

© 2013.

DOI: 10.1016/j.earlhumdev.2013.06.007
PMID: 23850484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


901. Biosystems. 2013 Oct;114(1):39-55. doi: 10.1016/j.biosystems.2013.07.001. Epub 
2013 Jul 12.

Applying a multiobjective metaheuristic inspired by honey bees to phylogenetic 
inference.

Santander-Jiménez S(1), Vega-Rodríguez MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Computer and Communications Technologies, University of 
Extremadura, Escuela Politécnica, Campus Universitario s/n, Caceres 10003, 
Spain. sesaji@unex.es

The development of increasingly popular multiobjective metaheuristics has 
allowed bioinformaticians to deal with optimization problems in computational 
biology where multiple objective functions must be taken into account. One of 
the most relevant research topics that can benefit from these techniques is 
phylogenetic inference. Throughout the years, different researchers have 
proposed their own view about the reconstruction of ancestral evolutionary 
relationships among species. As a result, biologists often report different 
phylogenetic trees from a same dataset when considering distinct optimality 
principles. In this work, we detail a multiobjective swarm intelligence approach 
based on the novel Artificial Bee Colony algorithm for inferring phylogenies. 
The aim of this paper is to propose a complementary view of phylogenetics 
according to the maximum parsimony and maximum likelihood criteria, in order to 
generate a set of phylogenetic trees that represent a compromise between these 
principles. Experimental results on a variety of nucleotide data sets and 
statistical studies highlight the relevance of the proposal with regard to other 
multiobjective algorithms and state-of-the-art biological methods.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biosystems.2013.07.001
PMID: 23850533 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


902. Biosystems. 2013 Oct;114(1):8-24. doi: 10.1016/j.biosystems.2013.06.005. Epub 
2013 Jul 12.

On eukaryotic intelligence: signaling system's guidance in the evolution of 
multicellular organization.

Marijuán PC(1), del Moral R, Navarro J.

Author information:
(1)Bioinformation and Systems Biology Group, Instituto Aragonés de Ciencias de 
la Salud (IACS), Zaragoza 50009, Spain. pcmarijuan.iacs@aragon.es

Communication with the environment is an essential characteristic of the living 
cell, even more when considering the origins and evolution of multicellularity. 
A number of changes and tinkering inventions were necessary in the evolutionary 
transition between prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells, which finally made possible 
the appearance of genuine multicellular organisms. In the study of this process, 
however, the transformations experimented by signaling systems themselves have 
been rarely object of analysis, obscured by other more conspicuous biological 
traits: incorporation of mitochondria, segregated nucleus, introns/exons, 
flagellum, membrane systems, etc. Herein a discussion of the main avenues of 
change from prokaryotic to eukaryotic signaling systems and a review of the 
signaling resources and strategies underlying multicellularity will be 
attempted. In the expansion of prokaryotic signaling systems, four main systemic 
resources were incorporated: molecular tools for detection of solutes, molecular 
tools for detection of solvent (Donnan effect), the apparatuses of cell-cycle 
control, and the combined system endocytosis/cytoskeleton. The multiple kinds of 
enlarged, mixed pathways that emerged made possible the eukaryotic revolution in 
morphological and physiological complexity. The massive incorporation of 
processing resources of electro-molecular nature, derived from the osmotic tools 
counteracting the Donnan effect, made also possible the organization of a 
computational tissue with huge information processing capabilities: the nervous 
system. In the central nervous systems of vertebrates, and particularly in 
humans, neurons have achieved both the highest level of molecular-signaling 
complexity and the highest degree of information-processing adaptability. 
Theoretically, it can be argued that there has been an accelerated pace of 
evolutionary change in eukaryotic signaling systems, beyond the other general 
novelties introduced by eukaryotic cells in their handling of DNA processes. 
Under signaling system's guidance, the whole processes of transcription, 
alternative splicing, mobile elements, and other elements of domain 
recombination have become closely intertwined and have propelled the 
differentiation capabilities of multicellular tissues and morphologies. An 
amazing variety of signaling and self-construction strategies have emerged out 
from the basic eukaryotic design of multicellular complexity, in millions and 
millions of new species evolved. This design can also be seen abstractly as a 
new kind of quasi-universal problem-solving 'engine' implemented at the 
biomolecular scale-providing the fundamentals of eukaryotic 'intelligence'. 
Analyzing in depth the problem-solving intelligence of eukaryotic cells would 
help to establish an integrative panorama of their information processing 
organization, and of their capability to handle the morphological and 
physiological complexity associated. Whether an informational updating of the 
venerable "cell theory" is feasible or not, becomes, at the time being - right 
in the middle of the massive data deluge/revolution from omic disciplines - a 
matter to careful consider.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biosystems.2013.06.005
PMID: 23850535 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


903. Neuropsychologia. 2013 Sep;51(11):2075-86. doi: 
10.1016/j.neuropsychologia.2013.06.029. Epub 2013 Jul 11.

Impairments in proverb interpretation following focal frontal lobe lesions.

Murphy P(1), Shallice T, Robinson G, MacPherson SE, Turner M, Woollett K, 
Bozzali M, Cipolotti L.

Author information:
(1)National Hospital for Neurology and Neurosurgery, Box 37 Queen Square, London 
WC1N 3BG, UK.

The proverb interpretation task (PIT) is often used in clinical settings to 
evaluate frontal "executive" dysfunction. However, only a relatively small 
number of studies have investigated the relationship between frontal lobe 
lesions and performance on the PIT. We compared 52 patients with unselected 
focal frontal lobe lesions with 52 closely matched healthy controls on a proverb 
interpretation task. Participants also completed a battery of neuropsychological 
tests, including a fluid intelligence task (Raven's Advanced Progressive 
Matrices). Lesions were firstly analysed according to a standard left/right 
sub-division. Secondly, a finer-grained analysis compared the performance of 
patients with medial, left lateral and right lateral lesions with healthy 
controls. Thirdly, a contrast of specific frontal subgroups compared the 
performance of patients with medial lesions with patients with lateral frontal 
lesions. The results showed that patients with left frontal lesions were 
significantly impaired on the PIT, while in patients with right frontal lesions 
the impairments approached significance. Medial frontal patients were the only 
frontal subgroup impaired on the PIT, relative to healthy controls and lateral 
frontal patients. Interestingly, an error analysis indicated that a 
significantly higher number of concrete responses were found in the left lateral 
subgroup compared to healthy controls. We found no correlation between scores on 
the PIT and on the fluid intelligence task. Overall our results suggest that 
specific regions of the frontal lobes contribute to the performance on the PIT.

© 2013 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuropsychologia.2013.06.029
PMCID: PMC4020551
PMID: 23850600 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


904. Neurosci Lett. 2013 Aug 29;550:134-8. doi: 10.1016/j.neulet.2013.06.054. Epub 
2013 Jul 12.

Spontaneous theta rhythm and working memory co-variation during child 
development.

Rodriguez-Martinez EI(1), Barriga-Paulino CI, Rojas-Benjumea MA, Gómez CM.

Author information:
(1)Human Psychobiology Lab, Experimental Psychology Department, University of 
Sevilla, Spain. elisroma@us.es

The present study examines possible relationships between changes in 
electroencephalogram (EEG) power and in working memory (WM) due to brain 
maturation. Scores on the phonological loop, visuospatial sketchpad and 
executive components of WM, measured by the Working Memory Test Battery for 
Children (WMTB-C), were correlated with the power spectral density (PSD) values 
on the spontaneous EEG from 1 to 46 Hz. In order to control for non-specific 
processes of visuomotor abilities, the reaction time (RT) variable was measured 
with an Oddball task. One hundred and sixty seven subjects (82 males and 85 
females) between 6 and 26 years old participated in the study. Three minutes of 
spontaneous EEG were recorded. The WMTB-C and the Oddball task were also 
administered. The scores on each WM component increased and the RT in the 
Oddball decreased with age, while PSD values in the different frequencies 
decreased with age. Significant negative correlations between each of the 
components and the PSD were obtained. The maximal negative correlations were 
obtained in the theta (4-7 Hz) range. A bivariate linear model including theta 
PSD and RT explained most of the WM variance due to age. The results suggest 
that spontaneous EEG maturation is closely related to WM maturation, 
particularly in the theta range.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neulet.2013.06.054
PMID: 23850606 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


905. BMC Bioinformatics. 2013;14 Suppl 8(Suppl 8):S8. doi: 
10.1186/1471-2105-14-S8-S8. Epub 2013 May 9.

Biomimicry of quorum sensing using bacterial lifecycle model.

Niu B(1), Wang H, Duan Q, Li L.

Author information:
(1)College of Management, Shenzhen University, Shenzhen 518060, China. 
drniuben@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: Recent microbiologic studies have shown that quorum sensing 
mechanisms, which serve as one of the fundamental requirements for bacterial 
survival, exist widely in bacterial intra- and inter-species cell-cell 
communication. Many simulation models, inspired by the social behavior of 
natural organisms, are presented to provide new approaches for solving realistic 
optimization problems. Most of these simulation models follow population-based 
modelling approaches, where all the individuals are updated according to the 
same rules. Therefore, it is difficult to maintain the diversity of the 
population.
RESULTS: In this paper, we present a computational model termed LCM-QS, which 
simulates the bacterial quorum-sensing (QS) mechanism using an individual-based 
modelling approach under the framework of Agent-Environment-Rule (AER) scheme, 
i.e. bacterial lifecycle model (LCM). LCM-QS model can be classified into three 
main sub-models: chemotaxis with QS sub-model, reproduction and elimination 
sub-model and migration sub-model. The proposed model is used to not only 
imitate the bacterial evolution process at the single-cell level, but also 
concentrate on the study of bacterial macroscopic behaviour. Comparative 
experiments under four different scenarios have been conducted in an artificial 
3-D environment with nutrients and noxious distribution. Detailed study on 
bacterial chemotatic processes with quorum sensing and without quorum sensing 
are compared. By using quorum sensing mechanisms, artificial bacteria working 
together can find the nutrient concentration (or global optimum) quickly in the 
artificial environment.
CONCLUSIONS: Biomimicry of quorum sensing mechanisms using the lifecycle model 
allows the artificial bacteria endowed with the communication abilities, which 
are essential to obtain more valuable information to guide their search 
cooperatively towards the preferred nutrient concentrations. It can also provide 
an inspiration for designing new swarm intelligence optimization algorithms, 
which can be used for solving the real-world problems.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2105-14-S8-S8
PMCID: PMC3654883
PMID: 23815296 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


906. Health Manag Technol. 2013 Jun;34(6):8-11.

How automation helps steer the revenue cycle process.

Colpas P.

If there's one aspect of healthcare that's omnipresent - that is connected in 
some way to virtually every component of the medical trade - it's the revenue 
cycle; and vendors' solutions to manage it are as varied as the experts we 
queried on this topic. The revenue cycle actually touches on nearly everything 
related to healthcare - from the time a patient books an appointment with a 
healthcare facility, until the patient and insurance company provide final 
payments for services rendered to the healthcare provider. Over the past several 
decades, software programs and computers have replaced ledger books and 
calculators. And while the goal of revenue cycle management (RCM) remains 
essentially the same, healthcare reform will make this process infinitely more 
complex, due to reduced reimbursements and the onset of ICD-10 in October 2014. 
Additionally, reimbursement will be tied to quality, rather than quantity. 
According to an Information Week article by Ken Terry, outsourcing of billing 
and collections continues to grow, "because hospitals and physician groups are 
not very good at these non-core tasks." Think writers and math: I know a great 
many writers, including yours truly, who possess truly weak math skills. 
Granted, both skills involve opposite brain hemispheres - different parts of the 
brain. But what may be even more important is the fact that math is not 
generally an integral component of the main function of writing. A similar 
situation exists in healthcare facilities; just replace writing with providing 
care for people. A 2012 Black Book Rankings survey states 96 percent of 
organizations are in the process of acquiring several crucial accountable care 
organization (ACO) data solutions, including clinical decision support, RCM, 
health information exchange (HIEs), electronic health records (EHRs), 
e-prescribing, data center security and storage solutions, business intelligence 
and care coordination management. So it's clear that RCM will continue to remain 
a top-of-mind issue as we see how healthcare reform plays out. Here's what our 
select group of experts had to say about how automation helps to steer the 
revenue cycle process.

PMID: 23855249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


907. Cogn Sci. 2013 Aug;37(6):1171-91. doi: 10.1111/cogs.12062. Epub 2013 Jul 15.

Programs as causal models: speculations on mental programs and mental 
representation.

Chater N(1), Oaksford M.

Author information:
(1)Behavioural Sciences Group, Warwick Business School, University of Warwick, 
UK. nick.chater@wbs.ac.uk

Judea Pearl has argued that counterfactuals and causality are central to 
intelligence, whether natural or artificial, and has helped create a rich 
mathematical and computational framework for formally analyzing causality. Here, 
we draw out connections between these notions and various current issues in 
cognitive science, including the nature of mental "programs" and mental 
representation. We argue that programs (consisting of algorithms and data 
structures) have a causal (counterfactual-supporting) structure; these 
counterfactuals can reveal the nature of mental representations. Programs can 
also provide a causal model of the external world. Such models are, we suggest, 
ubiquitous in perception, cognition, and language processing.

Copyright © 2013 Cognitive Science Society, Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/cogs.12062
PMID: 23855554 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


908. Occup Ther Health Care. 2013 Jul;27(3):201-15. doi: 
10.3109/07380577.2012.763199. Epub 2013 Feb 18.

Emotional intelligence, self-efficacy, and occupational therapy students' 
fieldwork performance.

Andonian L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Occupational Therapy, San José State University, One Washington 
Square, San José, CA 95192, USA. Lynne.andonian@sjsu.edu

This study explored the relationship of emotional intelligence level and 
self-efficacy to fieldwork performance for occupational therapy students. 
Occupational therapy students (n = 199) from 36 occupational therapy programs in 
the United States completed the two surveys, the Mayer-Salovey-Caruso Emotional 
Intelligence Test and the Student Confidence Questionnaire, during their 
professional Level 2 fieldwork placements. The surveys were compared to the 
Fieldwork Performance Evaluation for the Occupational Therapy Student completed 
by the fieldwork educators. Results showed that degree of emotional 
intelligence, having a choice in the fieldwork setting, and having professional 
experience in a related setting were positively correlated to Fieldwork 
Performance scores. Students' self-efficacy was not related to Fieldwork 
Performance scores. This suggests fostering students' emotional intelligence and 
capacity for accurate skill appraisal supports fieldwork success.

DOI: 10.3109/07380577.2012.763199
PMID: 23855607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


909. Appl Ergon. 2014 Mar;45(2):162-70. doi: 10.1016/j.apergo.2013.05.011. Epub 2013 
Jul 12.

Socio-technical systems and interaction design - 21st century relevance.

Maguire M(1).

Author information:
(1)Design School, Loughborough University, Loughborough LE11 3TU, United 
Kingdom. Electronic address: m.c.maguire@lboro.ac.uk.

This paper focuses on the relationship between the socio-technical system and 
the user-technology interface. It looks at specific aspects of the 
organisational context such as multiple user roles, job change, work processes 
and workflows, technical infrastructure, and the challenges they present for the 
interaction designer. The implications of trends such as more mobile and 
flexible working, the use of social media, and the growth of the virtual 
organisation, are also considered. The paper also reviews rapidly evolving 
technologies such as pervasive systems and artificial intelligence, and the 
skills that workers will need to engage with them.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd and The Ergonomics Society. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.apergo.2013.05.011
PMID: 23856116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


910. Med Hypotheses. 2013 Sep;81(3):367-70. doi: 10.1016/j.mehy.2013.06.019. Epub 
2013 Jul 12.

Hypothesis on two different functionalities co-existing in frontal lobe of human 
brains.

Wang J(1).

Author information:
(1)jacob-wang909@hotmail.com

Human frontal lobe is a key area from where our cognition, memory and emotion 
display or function. In medical case study, there are patients with social 
dysfunctions, lack of passion or emotion as result of their frontal lobe damage 
caused by pathological changes, traumatic damage, and brain tumor remove 
operations. The syndrome of frontal lobe damage remains at large unanswered 
medically. From early stage of pregnancy, there exists lobe layers, nerve 
combine, and neurons synaptic, indicating a completion of growth of 
functionality inside frontal lobe. However, this completion of growth does not 
match the growth of human intelligence. Human infants only start and complete 
their cognition and memory functionality one full year after their birth which 
is marked by huge amount of neurons synaptic inside their frontal lobe, which is 
not part of a continual growth of originally developed functions. By reasoning 
on pathological changes of frontal lobe, a hypothesis was established that two 
individually functional mechanisms co-existed inside one frontal lobe. This 
neuron system is particularly for human beings.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mehy.2013.06.019
PMID: 23856241 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


911. Sensors (Basel). 2013 Jul 12;13(7):8950-76. doi: 10.3390/s130708950.

AmI and deployment considerations in AAL services provision for elderly 
independent living: the MonAMI project.

Falcó JL(1), Vaquerizo E, Lain L, Artigas JI, Ibarz A.

Author information:
(1)Grupo de Investigación Tecnodiscap, I3A, Universidad de Zaragoza, Zaragoza 
50018, Spain. jfalco@unizar.es

The MonAMI project aims to investigate the feasibility of the deployment of open 
platforms for Ambient Assisted Living (AAL) services provision based on Ambient 
Intelligence (AmI) and to test user acceptance and the usability of the 
services. Services were designed to provide support in the areas of 
environmental control, security, well-being and leisure. These services were 
installed and evaluated in a Spanish geriatric residence. The participants 
included elderly persons with disabilities, nursing home care givers and 
informal carers. The concept of the open platform proved to be satisfactory for 
the provision of the services in a context aware framework. Furthermore, the 
usability of the technology was viewed positively and the overall results 
indicate that this system has the potential to prolong independent living at 
home for elderly people with disabilities. Deployment was proven successful and 
awareness of open-platform AAL service delivery was raised in local communities 
throughout Europe.

DOI: 10.3390/s130708950
PMCID: PMC3758631
PMID: 23857262 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


912. Arch Sex Behav. 2014 Feb;43(2):399-405. doi: 10.1007/s10508-013-0151-8. Epub 
2013 Jul 12.

Discordant transsexualism in male monozygotic twins: neuroanatomical and 
psychological differences.

Andreazza TS(1), Costa AB, Massuda R, Salvador J, Silveira EM, Piccon F, 
Carvalho R, Fontanari AM, Koff W, Belmonte-de-Abreu P, Lobato MI.

Author information:
(1)Gender Identity Disorder Program, Hospital de Clínicas de Porto Alegre, 
Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre, Brazil, 
tahianasa@yahoo.com.br.

One monozygotic male twin pair discordant for transsexualism is described. Both 
twins were interviewed and tested with the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale 
battery for cognitive functions and they underwent magnetic resonance imaging to 
measure the volumes of specific cerebral structures. Interviews with the twins 
and their mother indicated no unusual medical or life history events that could 
have had a causal role in the emergence of the disorder. Both cognitive function 
testing and neuroimaging detected differences between the twins that could be 
related to unexplained epigenetic effects and exogenous hormone usage.

DOI: 10.1007/s10508-013-0151-8
PMID: 23857518 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


913. Asia Pac Psychiatry. 2013 Sep;5(3):183-90. doi: 10.1111/appy.12019. Epub 2012 
Dec 3.

Prospective memory deficits in euthymic bipolar disorder patients: a preliminary 
study.

Zhou JJ(1), Xiang YT, Wang CY, Zhou FC, Ungvari GS, Dickerson F, Chiu HF, Lai 
KY, Shum DH, Lee E, Au RW, Tang WK, Man D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Beijing Anding Hospital, Capital Medical 
University, Beijing, China.

INTRODUCTION: Prospective memory refers to the ability to remember to do 
something in the future. To date, little is known about prospective memory 
deficits in bipolar disorder (BD) in remission (euthymia). This study examined 
the nature and correlates of prospective memory in these patients.
METHODS: Forty-seven euthymic BD patients and 47 matched healthy controls formed 
the study sample. Socio-demographic and basic clinical characteristics, 
prospective memory (Cambridge Prospective Memory Test [CAMPROMPT]), 
retrospective memory (immediate Logical Memory subtests of the Wechsler Memory 
Scales-Revised [WMS-R]), IQ (Raven's Progressive Matrices) and executive 
functioning (Wisconsin Card Sorting Test) were measured in all participants; 
patients' symptoms were rated with the 17-item Hamilton Depression Rating Scale 
and the 11-item Young Mania Rating Scale.
RESULTS: Patients performed significantly worse on time-based prospective memory 
compared to controls. Multivariate analyses revealed that patients' lower score 
on Raven's Progressive Matrices significantly contributed to poor performance on 
time-based prospective memory, whereas lower scores on WMS-R Logical Memory 
subtest contributed to poor performance on event-based prospective memory; in 
controls, lower education level and older age significantly contributed to poor 
performance on time-based and event-based prospective memory, respectively.
DISCUSSION: Prospective memory deficits persist in remitted BD patients 
suggesting that prospective memory impairment constitutes a trait deficit in BD.

Copyright © 2012 Wiley Publishing Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/appy.12019
PMID: 23857635 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


914. Asia Pac Psychiatry. 2013 Sep;5(3):157-63. doi: 
10.1111/j.1758-5872.2012.00233.x. Epub 2012 Aug 29.

Theory of mind in schizophrenia: correlation with clinical symptomatology, 
emotional recognition and ward behavior.

Lee WK(1), Kim YK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Counseling Psychology, Seoul Cyber University, Seoul, Korea. 
wisemind96@iscu.ac.kr

INTRODUCTION: Several studies have suggested the presence of a theory of mind 
(ToM) deficit in schizophrenic disorders. This study examined the relationship 
of emotion recognition, theory of mind, and ward behavior in patients with 
schizophrenia.
METHODS: Fifty-five patients with chronic schizophrenia completed measures of 
emotion recognition, ToM, intelligence, Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale 
(PANSS) and Nurse's Observation Scale for Inpatient Evaluation (NOSIE).
RESULTS: Theory of mind sum score correlated significantly with IQ, emotion 
recognition, and ward behavior. Ward behavior was linked to the duration of the 
illness, and even more so to theory of mind deficits. Theory of mind contributed 
a significant proportion of the amount of variance to explain social behavior on 
the ward.
DISCUSSION: Considering our study results, impaired theory of mind contributes 
significantly to the understanding of social competence in patients with 
schizophrenia.

Copyright © 2012 Wiley Publishing Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1758-5872.2012.00233.x
PMID: 23857818 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


915. Indian J Psychiatry. 2013 Jan;55(Suppl 2):S277-82. doi: 
10.4103/0019-5545.105551.

Indian mental concepts on children and adolescents.

Sitholey P(1), Agarwal V, Vrat S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, King George's Medical University, Lucknow, India.

Ancient Indian mental concepts of children and adolescents are very similar to 
the contemporary modern concepts. The ancient concepts were based on a very 
positive regard for the children's development, education and future 
independence, adult role and contribution to society. Children were wanted and 
considered precious. The children were categorized in to 4 different varnas 
based on their intelligence, abilities, merit and aptitude and educated 
accordingly, away from their home, at Gurukuls. They had universal right to 
education. Girls received attention equal to boys. The boys were expected to 
earn their livelihood, while the girls were expected to be homemakers. 
Graduation of the young person at the end of education and return to home marked 
the emancipation from adolescence. Children's physical and mental health and its 
disorders were given due attention. Aetiology and treatment of physical and 
mental disorders was in accordance with the overall scientific development of 
those times.

DOI: 10.4103/0019-5545.105551
PMCID: PMC3705696
PMID: 23858268

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None declared


916. Dev Med Child Neurol. 2013 Oct;55(10):952-8. doi: 10.1111/dmcn.12198. Epub 2013 
Jul 16.

Alterations in frontostriatal pathways in children born very preterm.

Duerden EG(1), Card D, Lax ID, Donner EJ, Taylor MJ.

Author information:
(1)Diagnostic Imaging, Research Institute, Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, 
ON, Canada; Neurosciences & Mental Health, Research Institute, Hospital for Sick 
Children, Toronto, ON, Canada; Neurology, Research Institute, Hospital for Sick 
Children, Toronto, ON, Canada.

Comment in
    Dev Med Child Neurol. 2013 Oct;55(10):883-4.

AIM: Children born very preterm (<32wks' gestation) are at risk of white matter 
injury, particularly in frontostriatal pathways that mediate executive 
functioning. However, it is unclear whether very preterm children without 
evidence of neonatal brain injury manifest long-term white matter 
microstructural differences once they reach school age and if this is related to 
cognitive impairments.
METHOD: Twenty school-aged children born very preterm (11 males, nine females; 
mean age 8y 6mo, standard error [SE] 1.68mo, range 7y 7mo-9y 6mo; gestational 
age range 24-30wks, mean gestational age 26.9wks, SE 0.4wk; birthweight 988 g, 
SE 46 g, range 570-1424 g) without evidence of neonatal brain injury, and 20 
sex- and age-matched term-born children (mean age 8y 4.8mo, SE 1.92mo; range 7y 
2mo-9y-10.8mo) underwent neurodevelopmental assessment and diffusion tensor 
imaging.
RESULTS: Fractional anisotropy, mean diffusivity, axial diffusivity, and radial 
diffusivity were calculated within all white matter pathways and within 
frontostriatal projections. Children born preterm had decreased fractional 
anisotropy in the territories of the left external capsule, superior 
longitudinal fasciculus, uncinate fasciculus, and inferior fronto-occipital 
fasciculus. Measures of intelligence were negatively correlated with 
frontostriatal fractional anisotropy only in males born preterm.
INTERPRETATION: Results indicate that very preterm-born children exhibit white 
matter disturbances that persist into middle childhood, with potential sex 
differences in the association between these white matter alterations and 
cognitive function.

© 2013 Mac Keith Press.

DOI: 10.1111/dmcn.12198
PMID: 23859594 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


917. Dev Med Child Neurol. 2013 Sep;55(9):840-5. doi: 10.1111/dmcn.12201. Epub 2013 
Jul 16.

Classification of intellectual disability using the Wechsler Intelligence Scale 
for Children: Full Scale IQ or General Abilities Index?

Koriakin TA(1), McCurdy MD, Papazoglou A, Pritchard AE, Zabel TA, Mahone EM, 
Jacobson LA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuropsychology, Kennedy Krieger Institute, Baltimore, MD 21231 
USA. koriakin@kennedykrieger.org

Comment in
    Dev Med Child Neurol. 2013 Sep;55(9):782-3.

AIM: We examined the implications of using the Full Scale IQ (FSIQ) versus the 
General Abilities Index (GAI) for determination of intellectual disability using 
the Wechsler Intelligence Scales for Children, fourth edition (WISC-IV).
METHOD: Children referred for neuropsychological assessment (543 males, 290 
females; mean age 10y 5mo, SD 2y 9mo, range 6-16y) were administered the WISC-IV 
and the Adaptive Behavior Assessment System, second edition (ABAS-II).
RESULTS: GAI and FSIQ were highly correlated; however, fewer children were 
identified as having intellectual disability using GAI (n=159) than when using 
FSIQ (n=196). Although the 44 children classified as having intellectual 
disability based upon FSIQ (but not GAI) had significantly higher adaptive 
functioning scores than those meeting intellectual disability criteria based 
upon both FSIQ and GAI, mean adaptive scores still fell within the impaired 
range. FSIQ and GAI were comparable in predicting impairments in adaptive 
functioning.
INTERPRETATION: Using GAI rather than FSIQ in intellectual disability diagnostic 
decision-making resulted in fewer individuals being diagnosed with intellectual 
disability; however, the mean GAI of the disqualified individuals was at the 
upper end of criteria for intellectual impairment (standard score 75), and these 
individuals remained adaptively impaired. As GAI and FSIQ were similarly 
predictive of overall adaptive functioning, the use of GAI for intellectual 
disability diagnostic decision-making may be of limited value.

© 2013 Mac Keith Press.

DOI: 10.1111/dmcn.12201
PMCID: PMC3748610
PMID: 23859669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


918. Int J Occup Environ Med. 2013 Jul;4(3):141-8.

Teaching emotional intelligence to intensive care unit nurses and their general 
health: a randomized clinical trial.

Sharif F(1), Rezaie S, Keshavarzi S, Mansoori P, Ghadakpoor S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Mental Health Nursing, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, 
Shiraz, Iran. fsharif@sums.ac.ir

BACKGROUND: Emotion and how people manage it is an important part of personality 
that would immensely affect their health. Investigations showed that emotional 
intelligence is significantly related to and can predict psychological health.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the effect of teaching emotional intelligence to 
intensive care unit nurses on their general health.
METHODS: This randomized clinical trial (registered as IRCT201208022812N9) was 
conducted on 52 of 200 in intensive care unit nurses affiliated to Shiraz 
University of Medical Sciences. They were recruited through purposeful 
convenience sampling and then randomly categorized into two groups. The 
intervention group members were trained in emotional intelligence. Bar-on 
emotional intelligence and Goldberg's general health questionnaires were 
administered to each participant before, immediately after, and one month after 
the intervention.
RESULTS: While the mean score of general health for the intervention group 
decreased from 25.4 before the intervention, to 18.1 immediately after the 
intervention and to 14.6 one month later, for the control group, it increased 
from 22.0, to 24.2 and to 26.5, respectively (p<0.001).
CONCLUSION: Teaching emotional intelligence improved the general health of 
intensive care unit nurses.

PMID: 23860544 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


919. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2013 Sep;98(9):3663-70. doi: 10.1210/jc.2013-1903. Epub 
2013 Jul 16.

Neurodevelopmental and body composition outcomes in children with congenital 
hypothyroidism treated with high-dose initial replacement and close monitoring.

Albert BB(1), Heather N, Derraik JG, Cutfield WS, Wouldes T, Tregurtha S, Mathai 
S, Webster D, Jefferies C, Gunn AJ, Hofman PL.

Author information:
(1)Liggins Institute, Faculty of Medical and Health Sciences, University of 
Auckland, 1023 Auckland, New Zealand.

BACKGROUND: Despite newborn screening and early levothyroxine replacement, there 
are continued reports of mild neurocognitive impairment in children with 
congenital hypothyroidism (CHT). In Auckland, New Zealand, cases are identified 
by a neonatal screening program with rapid institution of high-dose 
levothyroxine replacement (10-15 μg/kg·d), producing prompt normalization of 
thyroid function. Subsequently, frequent monitoring and dose alterations are 
performed for 2 years. We aimed to assess whether the Auckland treatment 
strategy prevents impairment of intellectual and motor development.
METHODS: This study encompassed all children with CHT born in 1993-2006 in 
Auckland and their siblings. Neurocognitive assessments included the following: 
1) intelligence quotient via Weschler Preschool and Primary Scale of 
Intelligence III or Weschler Intelligence Scale for Children IV; 2) Movement 
Assessment Battery for Children; and 3) Beery Developmental Test of Visual-Motor 
Integration. Body composition was assessed by dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry.
RESULTS: Forty-four CHT cases and 53 sibling controls aged 9.6 ± 3.9 years were 
studied. Overall intelligence quotient was similar among CHT cases and controls 
(95.2 vs 98.6; P = .20), and there were also no differences in motor function. 
Severity of CHT did not influence outcome, but greater time to normalize free T4 
was associated with worse motor balance. There were no differences in 
anthropometry or body composition between groups.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that a strategy of rapidly identifying and 
treating infants with CHT using high-dose levothyroxine replacement is 
associated with normal intellectual and motor development. The subtle negative 
impact on motor function associated with time to normalize free T4 levels is 
consistent with benefit from rapid initial correction.

DOI: 10.1210/jc.2013-1903
PMID: 23861458 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


920. Comput Math Methods Med. 2013;2013:295986. doi: 10.1155/2013/295986. Epub 2013 
Jun 19.

Effect of Pilates training on alpha rhythm.

Bian Z(1), Sun H, Lu C, Yao L, Chen S, Li X.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Electrical Engineering, Yanshan University, Qinhuangdao 066004, 
China.

In this study, the effect of Pilates training on the brain function was 
investigated through five case studies. Alpha rhythm changes during the Pilates 
training over the different regions and the whole brain were mainly analyzed, 
including power spectral density and global synchronization index (GSI). It was 
found that the neural network of the brain was more active, and the 
synchronization strength reduced in the frontal and temporal regions due to the 
Pilates training. These results supported that the Pilates training is very 
beneficial for improving brain function or intelligence. These findings maybe 
give us some line evidence to suggest that the Pilates training is very helpful 
for the intervention of brain degenerative diseases and cogitative dysfunction 
rehabilitation.

DOI: 10.1155/2013/295986
PMCID: PMC3703805
PMID: 23861723 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


921. Violence Vict. 2013;28(3):513-30. doi: 10.1891/0886-6708.vv-d-12-00026.

Adverse childhood experiences, posttraumatic stress disorder symptoms, and 
emotional intelligence in partner aggression.

Swopes RM(1), Simonet DV, Jaffe AE, Tett RP, Davis JL.

Author information:
(1)University of Tulsa, Oklahoma 74104, USA.

Intimate partner violence (IPV) has been linked to childhood abuse, 
posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD), and low emotional intelligence (EI). 
Relationships among adverse childhood experiences (ACE), PTSD symptoms, and 
partner aggression (i.e., generalized tendency to aggress toward one's partner) 
were assessed in 108 male IPV offenders. It was hypothesized that ACE is 
positively correlated with partner aggression, PTSD mediates the ACE-aggression 
relationship, and the ACE-PTSD-aggression mediation varies by selected EI 
facets. Results indicate that ACE has an indirect effect on partner aggression 
via PTSD and PTSD mediates the ACE-aggression link when emotional 
self-regulation is low and when intuition (vs. reason) is high. Trauma-exposed 
IPV offenders may benefit from comprehensive treatments focusing on PTSD 
symptoms, emotional control, and reasoning skills to reduce aggression.

DOI: 10.1891/0886-6708.vv-d-12-00026
PMID: 23862313 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


922. ScientificWorldJournal. 2013 Jun 24;2013:196823. doi: 10.1155/2013/196823. Print 
2013.

Research on an infectious disease transmission by flocking birds.

Tang M(1), Mao X, Guessoum Z.

Author information:
(1)College of Computer, National University of Defense Technology, Changsha 
410073, China. tms110145@gmail.com

The swarm intelligence is becoming a hot topic. The flocking of birds is a 
natural phenomenon, which is formed and organized without central or external 
controls for some benefits (e.g., reduction of energy consummation). However, 
the flocking also has some negative effects on the human, as the infectious 
disease H7N9 will easily be transmited from the denser flocking birds to the 
human. Zombie-city model has been proposed to help analyzing and modeling the 
flocking birds and the artificial society. This paper focuses on the H7N9 virus 
transmission in the flocking birds and from the flocking birds to the human. And 
some interesting results have been shown: (1) only some simple rules could 
result in an emergence such as the flocking; (2) the minimum distance between 
birds could affect H7N9 virus transmission in the flocking birds and even affect 
the virus transmissions from the flocking birds to the human.

DOI: 10.1155/2013/196823
PMCID: PMC3707233
PMID: 23864820 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


923. Adv Child Dev Behav. 2013;45:67-92. doi: 10.1016/b978-0-12-397946-9.00004-x.

No genes for intelligence in the fluid genome.

Ho MW(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Science in Society, London, UK. m.w.ho@i-sis.org.uk

Revolution is brewing belatedly within the heartlands of the genetic determinist 
establishment still in denial about the fluid genome that makes identifying 
genes even for common disease well-nigh impossible. The fruitless hunt for 
intelligence genes serves to expose the poverty of an obsolete paradigm that is 
obstructing knowledge and preventing fruitful policies from being widely 
implemented. Genome-wide scans using state-of-the art technologies on extensive 
databases have failed to find a single gene for intelligence; instead, 
environment and maternal effects may account for most, if not all correlation 
among relatives, while identical twins diverge genetically and epigenetically 
throughout life. Abundant evidence points to the enormous potential for 
improving intellectual abilities (and health) through simple environmental and 
social interventions.

DOI: 10.1016/b978-0-12-397946-9.00004-x
PMID: 23865113 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


924. Span J Psychol. 2013;16:E13. doi: 10.1017/sjp.2013.3.

Psychoticism and disruptive behavior can be also good predictors of school 
achievement.

Flores-Mendoza C(1), Widaman K, Mansur-Alves M, Bacelar TD, Saldanha R.

Author information:
(1)Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais (Brazil).

The relations of Gf (Standard Progressive Matrices Raven), Gc (verbal scale of 
Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children-Third Version), personality dimensions 
(Eysenck Personality Questionnaire-Junior Version), and disruptive behavior 
(TDAH scale) with school achievement (measured by TDE test and PISA test) were 
investigated. Two samples of students (total N = 534) representing a broad range 
of socioeconomic status (SES) participated in this study. Path models were 
conducted. The results demonstrated that (1) in both samples no sex differences 
related to school achievement were found; (2) in the first sample, after 
controlling for age and SES differences, Gf and psychoticism predicted (.38 and 
-.13, respectively) school achievement (measured by TDE test); (3) in the second 
sample, after controlling for SES differences to which additional measures were 
administered, Gf and Gc positively predicted (.22 and .40, respectively) school 
achievement (measured by PISA test). In addition, psychoticism and disruptive 
behavior also predicted school performance (-.14 and -.28, respectively). Some 
theoretical and practical implications are discussed.

DOI: 10.1017/sjp.2013.3
PMID: 23866206 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


925. Span J Psychol. 2013;16:E36. doi: 10.1017/sjp.2013.21.

Social intelligence as a predictor of loneliness in the workplace.

Silman F(1), Dogan T.

Author information:
(1)Cyprus International University (North Cyprus).

The aim of this research is to examine the relationship between social 
intelligence and loneliness of academics in the workplace. This study involves 
326 (149 female/177 male) academics employed in various universities in Turkey 
and North Cyprus. The age average of participants is 39.09 years. In this study, 
the Loneliness at Work Scale (LAWS) and Tromso Social Intelligence Scale (TSIS) 
have been utilized. The data were analyzed using multiple regression and Pearson 
product-moment correlation coefficient analysis techniques. The findings showed 
that social information processing, social skills, and social awareness, which 
are the sub-dimensions of social intelligence, positively explained 26% of 
social deprivation. Social skills and social awareness positively explained 13% 
of social companionship. The findings also showed that the social information 
processing sub-dimension did not meaningfully explain social companionship.

DOI: 10.1017/sjp.2013.21
PMID: 23866231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


926. Span J Psychol. 2013;16:E50. doi: 10.1017/sjp.2013.39.

Emotional intelligence and self-efficacy: effects on psychological well-being in 
college students.

Costa H(1), Ripoll P, Sánchez M, Carvalho C.

Author information:
(1)Universitat de València (Spain).

The present paper examined the role of perceived emotional intelligence-EI- 
(measured by adaptations of the Trait Meta-Mood Scale - TMMS, Salovey, Mayer, 
Goldman, Turvey, & Palfai, 1995) as a predictor of life satisfaction and mental 
health. We explored the unique contribution of EI dimensions (Attention, Clarity 
and Repair) on individuals' psychological well-being, after controlling for the 
influence of general self-efficacy and socio-demographic variables (age, gender 
and culture). Data was collected from a sample of 1078 Spanish, Mexican, 
Portuguese and Brazilian undergraduate students (M(age) = 22.98; SD = 6.73) and 
analyzed using hierarchical multiple regressions. Results indicated that overall 
EI dimensions (especially Clarity and Repair) accounted for unique variance on 
psychological well-being above and beyond general self-efficacy and 
socio-demographic characteristics. These findings provide additional support for 
the validity of perceived EI, and suggests that EI components contribute to 
important well-being criteria independently from well-known constructs such as 
self-efficacy.

DOI: 10.1017/sjp.2013.39
PMID: 23866247 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


927. Zh Vyssh Nerv Deiat Im I P Pavlova. 2013 Mar-Apr;63(2):218-26. doi: 
10.7868/s004446771302007x.

[Intelligence and creativity changes induced by pathological growth of 
space-occupying cerebral lesion].

[Article in Russian]

Perfil'ev AM, Razumnikova OM, Stupak VV.

Creativity and intelligence changes depending on tumor localization in frontal 
or parietal cortex before surgical procedure in 24 patients in comparison with 
control group are studied. Brain damage-induced intelligence impairment and a 
decrease of fluency, flexibility of figural divergent thinking, and originality 
of verbal one without specificity of tumor localization were found. Intelligence 
decrease was more presented while performing of figural tasks and least of all 
in verbal ones. The left prefrontal brain damage induced a decrease of all 
components of intelligence and a trend to a decrease of verbal creativity and 
figural fluency. The right parietal brain lesion was more associated with a 
decline of divergent thinking originality.

DOI: 10.7868/s004446771302007x
PMID: 23866608 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


928. Psychol Med. 2014 Apr;44(6):1257-65. doi: 10.1017/S0033291713001608. Epub 2013 
Jul 19.

The impact of parent socio-economic status on executive functioning and cortical 
morphology in individuals with schizophrenia and healthy controls.

Yeo RA(1), Martinez D(1), Pommy J(1), Ehrlich S(2), Schulz SC(3), Ho BC(4), 
Bustillo JR(5), Calhoun VD(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, NM, USA.
(2)Martinos Center for Biomedical Imaging, Massachusetts General Hospital, 
Charlestown, MA, USA.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN, USA.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, Carver College of Medicine, University of Iowa, 
Iowa City, IA, USA.
(5)The Mind Research Network, Albuquerque, NM, USA.

BACKGROUND: Relatively lower executive functioning is characteristic of 
individuals with schizophrenia. As low socio-economic status (SES) early in life 
(i.e. parent SES) has been linked with lower executive skills in healthy 
children, we hypothesized that parental SES (pSES) would be more strongly 
related to executive functioning in individuals with schizophrenia than in 
controls and have a greater impact on prefrontal cortical morphology.
METHOD: Healthy controls (n = 125) and individuals with schizophrenia (n = 102) 
completed tests assessing executive functioning and intelligence. The groups 
were matched on pSES, which was evaluated with the Hollingshead-Redlich scale. A 
principal components analysis (PCA) was conducted on 10 variables from six 
executive tests, yielding three specific components (fluency, planning and 
response inhibition). Voxel-based morphometry (VBM) was used to evaluate effects 
of pSES on gray matter (GM) concentration.
RESULTS: Lower pSES was associated with lower scores across the three executive 
functioning components, and a significant group by pSES interaction was observed 
such that low pSES, in particular, affected individuals with schizophrenia. 
These effects remained significant when intellectual ability, education and 
self-SES (sSES) were added as covariates. VBM revealed that lower pSES was 
associated with reduced GM volume in several anterior brain regions, especially 
the superior frontal gyrus, in patients but not in controls.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that individuals with schizophrenia may be 
particularly vulnerable to the adverse impact of low pSES, in terms of both 
lower executive skills and reduced anterior GM volumes.

DOI: 10.1017/S0033291713001608
PMCID: PMC4428550
PMID: 23866983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


929. Tunis Med. 2013 Jun;91(6):382-6.

[Study of a Tunisian population of children with learning disorders].

[Article in French]

Hsairi Guidara I, Ayadi I, Ellouz E, Abid I, Kamoun F, Hakim L, Kassis F, Kolsi 
D, Moalla F, Ghribi F, Triki CC.

BACKGROUND: Learning disorders are increasingly a concern for Tunisians parents. 
These difficulties are divided into two groups: specific learning disabilities 
and non-specific learning disorders.
AIM: Our work is part of a federated research project. Our aim is to determine 
the incidence, etiology and management of learning disorders in the region of 
Sfax.
METHODS: We conducted a descriptive cross-sectional study on a population of 304 
children assessed by their teachers as having academic difficulty. A 
multidisciplinary assessment including a neurological examination, an assessment 
of score of intelligence and language assessment has been performed for 209 
children.
RESULTS: Referring to our sample, learning disorders affect 21.3% of children in 
the region Sfax. The frequency of specific learning disorder is estimated at 
10.3% (reading disorder 5.9%, dyscalculia 2.4%, reading disorder associated with 
dyscalculia 2%). Non-specific learning disorders were found in 11% of children. 
Etiologies in this group were dominated by mental retardation (2.1%), 
inappropriate education (2.3%).
CONCLUSION: Our study revealed the high frequency of learning difficulties. It 
allows us to distinguish between specific learning disabilities and non specific 
learning disorders secondary to neurological or precarious socio-economic 
conditions. However, the profile and severity of specific learning disorders 
could not be studied due to the lack of standardized Arabic tests in Tunisia. In 
countries with a lack of professional and specialized unit care as in Tunisia, 
reading interventions in school should be proposed. Only children with remaining 
difficulties after this training will be sent to specialized professionals.

PMID: 23868035 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


930. Int J Law Psychiatry. 2013 Sep-Dec;36(5-6):339-42. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijlp.2013.06.004. Epub 2013 Jul 17.

National suicide rates and mental health system indicators: an ecological study 
of 191 countries.

Rajkumar AP(1), Brinda EM, Duba AS, Thangadurai P, Jacob KS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedicine, Aarhus University, Aarhus - 8000, Denmark. 
Electronic address: antoprajkumar@yahoo.com.

PURPOSE: The relative contributions of psychiatric morbidity and psychosocial 
stress to suicide, and the efficacy of mental health systems in reducing 
population suicide rates, are currently unclear. This study, therefore, aimed to 
investigate whether national suicide rates are associated with their 
corresponding mental health system indicators.
METHODS: Relevant data were retrieved from the following sources: the World 
Health Organization, the United Nations Statistics Division and the Central 
Intelligence Agency World Fact book. Suicide rates of 191 countries were 
compared with their mental health system indicators using an ecological study 
design and multivariate non-parametric robust regression models.
RESULTS: Significant positive correlations between suicide rates and mental 
health system indicators (p<0.001) were documented. After adjusting for the 
effects of major macroeconomic indices using multivariate analyses, numbers of 
psychiatrists (p=0.006) and mental health beds (p<0.001) were significantly 
positively associated with population suicide rates.
CONCLUSIONS: Countries with better psychiatric services experience higher 
suicide rates. Although these associations should be interpreted with caution, 
as the issues are complex, we suggest that population-based public health 
strategies may have greater impact on national suicide rates than curative 
mental health services for individuals.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijlp.2013.06.004
PMID: 23870280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


931. J Sch Psychol. 2013 Aug;51(4):535-55. doi: 10.1016/j.jsp.2013.02.003. Epub 2013 
Mar 22.

A cross-battery, reference variable, confirmatory factor analytic investigation 
of the CHC taxonomy.

Reynolds MR(1), Keith TZ, Flanagan DP, Alfonso VC.

Author information:
(1)University of Kansas, Psychology and Research in Education, Lawrence, KS 
66045-3101, USA. mreynolds@ku.edu

The Cattell-Horn-Carroll (CHC) taxonomy has been used to classify and describe 
human cognitive abilities. The ability factors derived from the CHC taxonomy are 
often assumed to be invariant across multiple populations and intelligence 
batteries, which is an important assumption for research and assessment. In this 
study, data from five different test batteries that were collected during 
separate Kaufman Assessment Battery for Children-Second Edition (KABC-II; 
Kaufman & Kaufman, 2004) concurrent validity studies were factor-analyzed 
jointly. Because the KABC-II was administered to everyone in the validity 
studies, it was used as a reference battery to link the separate test batteries 
in a "cross-battery" confirmatory factor analysis. Some findings from this 
analysis were that CHC-based test classifications based on theory and prior 
research were straightforward and accurate, a first-order Fluid/Novel Reasoning 
(Gf) factor was equivalent to a second-order g factor, and sample heterogeneity 
related to SES and sex influenced factor loadings. It was also shown that a 
reference variable approach, used in studies that incorporate planned 
missingness into data collection, may be used successfully to analyze data from 
several test batteries and studies. One implication from these findings is that 
CHC theory should continue to serve as a useful guide that can be used for 
intelligence research, assessment, and test development.

Copyright © 2013 Society for the Study of School Psychology. Published by 
Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jsp.2013.02.003
PMID: 23870446 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


932. Dev Cogn Neurosci. 2013 Oct;6:30-9. doi: 10.1016/j.dcn.2013.06.001. Epub 2013 
Jun 25.

The influence of reading ability on subsequent changes in verbal IQ in the 
teenage years.

Ramsden S(1), Richardson FM, Josse G, Shakeshaft C, Seghier ML, Price CJ.

Author information:
(1)Wellcome Trust Centre for Neuroimaging, UCL, London WC1N 3BG, UK.

Intelligence Quotient (IQ) is regularly used in both education and employment as 
a measure of cognitive ability. Although an individual's IQ is generally assumed 
to stay constant across the lifespan, a few studies have suggested that there 
may be substantial variation at the individual level. Motivated by previous 
reports that reading quality/quantity has a positive influence on vocabulary 
acquisition, we hypothesised that reading ability in the early teenage years 
might contribute to changes in verbal IQ (VIQ) over the next few years. We found 
that good readers were more likely to experience relative improvements in VIQ 
over time, with the reverse true for poor readers. These effects were largest 
when there was a discrepancy between Time 1 reading ability and Time 1 VIQ. In 
other words, VIQ increases tended to be greatest when reading ability was high 
relative to VIQ. Additional analyses supported these findings by showing that 
variance in VIQ change associated with Time 1 behaviour was also associated with 
independent measurements of brain structure. Our finding that reading in the 
early teenage years can predict a significant proportion of the variance in 
subsequent VIQ change has implications for targeted education in both home and 
school environments.

Copyright © 2013 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dcn.2013.06.001
PMCID: PMC3853584
PMID: 23872197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


933. Clin Pediatr (Phila). 2013 Oct;52(10):950-9. doi: 10.1177/0009922813495311. Epub 
2013 Jul 19.

Is executive function intact after pediatric intracranial hemorrhage? A sample 
of Mexican children with hemophilia.

Morales G(1), Matute E, Murray J, Hardy DJ, O'Callaghan ET, Tlacuilo-Parra A.

Author information:
(1)1CSPP-Alliant International University, Los Angeles, CA, USA.

The goal of this study was to examine executive functioning outcomes in children 
with hemophilia who have suffered intracranial hemorrhage. We assessed 10 boys 
with hemophilia with intracranial hemorrhage; 6 boys with hemophilia without 
intracranial hemorrhage; and 10 healthy boys as controls. Intellectual 
functioning was assessed with subscales from the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for 
Children-Mexican Revision. Concept formation and reasoning, cognitive 
flexibility, and planning and organization domains from a neuropsychological 
assessment battery for Spanish-speaking children were employed for our analysis. 
Results indicated that children with intracranial hemorrhage demonstrated 
significant impairment on some measures of executive function compared with the 
control groups. All differences reflected poorer performance by the intracranial 
hemorrhage group. These results may reflect the impact of disruption to immature 
brain circuits and the deficiency of functional specificity within the immature 
brain. This is the only known study examining neuropsychological functioning in 
Mexican youth with hemophilia.

DOI: 10.1177/0009922813495311
PMID: 23872342 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


934. Gene. 2013 Oct 15;529(1):190-4. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2013.06.077. Epub 2013 Jul 
18.

Whole mitochondrial DNA variations in hippocampal surgical specimens and blood 
samples with high-throughput sequencing: a case of mesial temporal lobe epilepsy 
with hippocampal sclerosis.

Azakli H(1), Gurses C, Arikan M, Aydoseli A, Aras Y, Sencer A, Gokyigit A, 
Bilgic B, Ustek D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics, Institute for Experimental Medicine, Istanbul 
University, Istanbul, Turkey.

Comment in
    Gene. 2015 Jan 10;554(2):254.

INTRODUCTION: Hippocampal sclerosis is the most common lesion in patients with 
mesial temporal lobe epilepsy. Recently, there has been growing evidence on the 
involvement of mitochondria also in sporadic forms of epilepsy. In addition, it 
has been increasingly argued that mitochondrial dysfunction has an important 
role in epileptogenesis and seizure generation in temporal lobe epilepsy. 
Although mtDNA polymorphisms have been identified as potential risk factors for 
neurological diseases, the link between homoplasmy and heteroplasmy within 
tissues is not clear. We investigated whether mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) 
polymorphisms are involved in a case report of a patient with mesial temporal 
lobe epilepsy-hippocampal sclerosis (MTLE-HS).
DESIGN: We report the whole genome mtDNA deep sequencing results and clinical 
features of a 36-year-old woman with MTLE-HS. We used pyrosequencing technology 
to sequence a whole mitochondrial genome isolated from six different regions of 
her brain and blood. To assess the possible role of mitochondrial DNA variations 
in affected tissues, we compared all specimens from different regions of the 
hippocampus and blood.
RESULTS: In total, 35 homoplasmic and 18 heteroplasmic variations have been 
detected in 6 different regions of the hippocampus and in blood samples. While 
the samples did not display any difference in homoplasmic variations, it has 
been shown that hippocampus regions contain more heteroplasmic variations than 
blood. The number of heteroplasmic variations was highest in the CA2 region of 
the brain and accumulated in ND2, ND4 and ND5 genes. Also, dentate and subiculum 
regions of the hippocampus had similar heteroplasmic variation profiles.
DISCUSSION: We present a new rare example of parallel mutation at 16223 
position. Our case suggests that defects in mitochondrial function might be 
underlying the pathogenesis of seizures in temporal lobe epilepsy.

© 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2013.06.077
PMID: 23872536 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


935. Clin Interv Aging. 2013;8:845-53. doi: 10.2147/CIA.S45382. Epub 2013 Jul 11.

Associations between cognitive abilities and life satisfaction in the 
oldest-old. Results from the longitudinal population study Good Aging in Skåne.

Enkvist A(1), Ekström H, Elmståhl S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, Division of Geriatric Medicine, Lund 
University, Skåne University Hospital, Malmö, Sweden. asa.enkvist@med.lu.se

INTRODUCTION: Studies on the associations between cognitive abilities and life 
satisfaction (LS) in the oldest-old are few. The aim of this study was to 
explore whether abilities in six different cognitive domains could predict LS in 
the oldest-old 3 years later.
METHODS: The study population consisted of 681 individuals aged 78-98 years, 
drawn from the longitudinal population study "Good Aging in Skåne," which is 
part of a national survey (The Swedish National Study on Aging and Care). Scores 
on 13 cognitive tests were related to scores on Neugartens' LS index A (LSI-A) 3 
years later. The cognitive tests were added into six different cognitive 
domains. A multiple regression analysis was constructed for each cognitive 
domain separately, with scores on the LSI-A as the dependent variable. The model 
was adjusted stepwise for sex, age, education, functional capacity, and 
depressive mood.
RESULTS: Significant correlations were found between digit cancellation, word 
recall, verbal fluency (VF) A, VF animals, VF occupations, and mental rotations 
at baseline, as well as LSI-A at follow-up. The domains of spatial abilities (B 
= 0.453, P = 0.014) and processing speed (B = 0.118, P = 0.020) remained 
significantly associated with LSI-A 3 years later after adjustment.
CONCLUSION: The cognitive domains of spatial abilities and processing speed 
predicted LS 3 years later in the oldest-old. Clinical implications are 
discussed.

DOI: 10.2147/CIA.S45382
PMCID: PMC3712740
PMID: 23874091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


936. Neuropsychiatr Dis Treat. 2013;9:955-62. doi: 10.2147/NDT.S45402. Epub 2013 Jul 
11.

Reduced dorsolateral prefrontal cortical hemodynamic response in adult 
obsessive-compulsive disorder as measured by near-infrared spectroscopy during 
the verbal fluency task.

Hirosawa R(1), Narumoto J, Sakai Y, Nishida S, Ishida T, Nakamae T, Takei Y, 
Fukui K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Graduate School of Medicine, Kyoto Prefectural 
University of Medicine, Kyoto.

BACKGROUND: Near-infrared spectroscopy has helped our understanding of the 
neurobiological mechanisms of psychiatric disorders and has advantages including 
noninvasiveness, lower cost, and ease of use compared with other imaging 
techniques, like functional magnetic resonance imaging. The verbal fluency task 
is the most common and well established task used to assess cognitive activation 
during near-infrared spectroscopy. Recent functional neuroimaging studies have 
shown that the orbitofrontal cortex and other brain regions, including the 
dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, may play important roles in the pathophysiology 
of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). This study aimed to evaluate hemodynamic 
responses in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex in patients with OCD using 
near-infrared spectroscopy during the verbal fluency task and to compare these 
with dorsolateral prefrontal cortex responses in healthy controls.
METHODS: Twenty patients with OCD and 20 controls matched for age, gender, 
handedness, and estimated intelligence quotient participated in this study. The 
verbal fluency task was used to elicit near-infrared spectroscopic activation 
and consisted of a 30-second pre-task, followed by three repetitions of a 
20-second verbal fluency task (total 60 seconds), followed by a 70-second 
post-task period. The near-infrared spectroscopy experiment was conducted on the 
same day as surveys of obsessive-compulsive symptoms, depression, and anxiety. 
Z-scores for changes in the concentration of oxygenated hemoglobin were compared 
between the OCD patients and controls in 14 channels set over the left and right 
dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and frontopolar areas.
RESULTS: During the verbal fluency task, significant task-related activation was 
detected in both the OCD group and the controls. Changes in oxygenated 
hemoglobin concentration in the right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex were 
significantly smaller in the OCD group than in the controls, but were not 
statistically significant after correction for multiple comparisons.
CONCLUSION: Patients with OCD have reduced prefrontal, especially right 
dorsolateral prefrontal, cortical hemodynamic responses as measured by 
near-infrared spectroscopy during the verbal fluency task. These results support 
the hypothesis that the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex plays a role in the 
pathophysiology of OCD.

DOI: 10.2147/NDT.S45402
PMCID: PMC3713899
PMID: 23874098


937. PLoS One. 2013 Jul 16;8(7):e70589. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0070589. Print 
2013.

What are lay theories of social class?

Varnum ME(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Peking University, Beijing, China. 
michael.e.w.varnum@gmail.com

Numerous studies have documented the effects of social class on psychological 
and behavioral variables. However, lay beliefs about how social class affects 
these dimensions have not been systematically tested. Studies 1 and 2 assessed 
lay beliefs about the association between social class and 8 variables 
(including psychological and behavioral tendencies and cognitive ability). Study 
3 assessed lay beliefs about the Big five personality traits and social class, 
and study 4 reframed the 8 variables from study 1 in opposite terms and yielded 
similar results. Study 5 contained the variables framed as in both studies 1 and 
4, and replicated those results suggesting that framing effects were not 
responsible for the effects observed. Interestingly, for the most part lay 
beliefs about social class did not differ as a function of participants' own 
social class. In general people held relatively accurate and consistent 
stereotypes about the relationship between social class and well-being, health, 
intelligence, and neuroticism. In contrast lay beliefs regarding social class 
and reasoning styles, as well as relational, social, and emotional tendencies 
were less consistent and coherent. This work suggests that on the whole people's 
beliefs about social class are not particularly accurate, and further that in 
some domains there are contradictory stereotypes about the consequences of 
social class.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0070589
PMCID: PMC3713045
PMID: 23875029 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The author has declared 
that no competing interests exist.


938. Exp Aging Res. 2013;39(4):466-79. doi: 10.1080/0361073X.2013.808105.

Older and (emotionally) smarter? Emotional intelligence as a mediator in the 
relationship between age and emotional labor strategies in service employees.

Sliter M(1), Chen Y, Withrow S, Sliter K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Indiana University - Purdue University 
Indianapolis, Indianapolis, Indiana 46202, USA. msliter@iupui.edu

BACKGROUND/STUDY CONTEXT: The purpose of the current study was to investigate 
whether age was related to emotional labor strategies (surface and deep acting), 
and whether emotional intelligence partially explained this relationship. 
Additionally, employee well-being was examined as an outcome in this model.
METHODS: A total of 519 participants (age 18-68), working in a variety of 
service occupations, participated in a cross-sectional survey study. Validated 
measures for emotional intelligence, emotional labor strategies, positive 
affectivity, and employee well-being were administered.
RESULTS: A structural equation model supported the hypothesis that age was 
related positively to deep acting and negatively to surface acting, 
relationships partially mediated by emotional intelligence. Emotional labor 
strategy, in turn, affected well-being.
CONCLUSION: Implications were discussed in employee selection and employee 
well-being, particularly in the customer service context. It is recommended that 
future research investigates how aging is related to emotional labor strategies 
in other occupations that have different emotional requirements (e.g., negative 
display rules).

DOI: 10.1080/0361073X.2013.808105
PMID: 23875841 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


939. Neuropsychology. 2013 Jul;27(4):438-51. doi: 10.1037/a0032837.

Heterogeneity of brain lesions in pediatric traumatic brain injury.

Bigler ED(1), Abildskov TJ, Petrie J, Farrer TJ, Dennis M, Simic N, Taylor HG, 
Rubin KH, Vannatta K, Gerhardt CA, Stancin T, Owen Yeates K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology and The Neuroscience Center, Brigham Young 
University, Provo, UT 84602, USA. erin_bigler@byu.edu

OBJECTIVE: Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) provides a method to identify and 
quantify abnormalities resulting from traumatic brain injury (TBI). MRI 
abnormalities in children with TBI have not been fully characterized according 
to the frequency, location, and quantitative measurement of a range of 
pathologies critical for studies of neuropsychological outcome. Here, we report 
MRI findings from a large, multicenter study of childhood TBI, the Social 
Outcomes of Brain Injury in Kids (SOBIK) study, which compared qualitative and 
quantitative neuroimaging findings in 72 children with complicated 
mild-to-severe TBI to 52 children with orthopedic injury (OI).
METHOD: Qualitative analyses of MRI scans coded white matter hyperintensities 
(WMHs), hemosiderin deposits reflecting prior hemorrhagic lesions, regions of 
encephalomalacia and/or atrophy, and corpus callosum atrophy and traumatic shear 
lesions. Two automated quantitative analyses were conducted: (a) FreeSurfer 
methods computed volumes for total brain, white matter (WM), gray matter (GM), 
corpus callosum, ventricles, amygdala, hippocampus, basal ganglia, and thalamus 
along with a ventricle-to-brain ratio (VBR); and (b) voxel-based morphometry 
(VBM) to identify WM, GM, and cerebrospinal fluid. We also examined performance 
on the Processing Speed Index (PSI) from the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for 
Children, Fourth Edition, in relation to the above-mentioned neuroimaging 
variables.
RESULTS: WMHs, hemosiderin deposits, and focal areas of encephalomalacia or 
atrophy were common in children with TBI, were related to injury severity, and 
were mostly observed within a frontotemporal distribution. Quantitative analyses 
showed volumetric changes related to injury severity, especially ventricular 
enlargement and reduced corpus callosum volume. VBM demonstrated similar 
findings, but, in addition, GM reductions in the inferior frontal, basal 
forebrain region, especially in the severe TBI group. The complicated mild TBI 
group showed few differences from the OI group. PSI was significantly associated 
with global atrophy, as measured by VBR.
CONCLUSION: MRI findings after childhood TBI are diverse and particularly 
influenced by injury severity, and they involve common features, group 
heterogeneity, and individual variability.

PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2013 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/a0032837
PMID: 23876117 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


940. J Clin Nurs. 2014 Jul;23(13-14):1803-9. doi: 10.1111/jocn.12209. Epub 2013 Jul 
22.

The performance of an online osteoporosis detection system a sensitivity and 
specificity analysis.

Chang SF(1), Hong CM, Yang RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nursing, National Taipei College of Nursing, Taipei, Taiwan.

Comment in
    Evid Based Nurs. 2015 Oct;18(4):114.

AIMS AND OBJECTIVES: To develop an online system for the detection of 
osteoporosis risk and to test its accuracy.
BACKGROUND: Osteoporosis is a silent killer; usually, there are no symptoms, 
such as pain, until bone erosion and fracture occur. The risks of osteoporosis 
have been underestimated and neglected; as a result, osteoporosis can be as 
dangerous as heart diseases and cancers that lead to a healthcare crisis.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional study.
METHODS: The study participants were individuals presenting for routine health 
examinations at a medical centre in Taiwan from 2006-2007. Women over 30 years 
of age who underwent dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry scanning for measurement 
of bone mineral density were eligible for this study. The system for 
osteoporosis detection and health risk, which was developed in this study, was 
analysed.
RESULTS: The findings indicated a high sensitivity of 75%, specificity of 75%, 
positive predictive value of 75% and negative predictive value of 75%. In 
addition, the online osteoporosis detective system had a higher predictive power 
(24·2% vs. 11%) and a similar cut-off point (33% vs. 27%) compared with the tool 
designed by the International Osteoporosis Foundation.
CONCLUSION: The online system for detection of osteoporosis risk had excellent 
reliability and validity. It performed well in predicting osteoporosis and the 
cut-off point used for identifying the risk among women at risk of developing 
osteoporosis. Therefore, it is suitable for the Asian women and can help women 
achieve the goals of early detection and health promotion.
RELEVANCE TO CLINICAL PRACTICE: Early detection is the only way to prevent 
osteoporosis. Professional nurses should apply effective technology to promote 
health care in community-dwelling people.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jocn.12209
PMID: 23876185 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


941. Prog Neuropsychopharmacol Biol Psychiatry. 2013 Oct 1;46:181-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.pnpbp.2013.07.008. Epub 2013 Jul 19.

BDNF val66met modulates the association between childhood trauma, cognitive and 
brain abnormalities in psychoses.

Aas M(1), Haukvik UK, Djurovic S, Bergmann Ø, Athanasiu L, Tesli MS, Hellvin T, 
Steen NE, Agartz I, Lorentzen S, Sundet K, Andreassen OA, Melle I.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Clinical Medicine, University of Oslo, Norway; Psychosis 
Research Unit, Division of Mental Health and Addiction, Oslo University 
Hospital, Oslo, Norway. Electronic address: monica.aas@medisin.uio.no.

OBJECTIVE: Brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is important for brain 
development and plasticity, and here we tested if the functional BDNF val66met 
variant modulates the association between high levels of childhood abuse, 
cognitive function, and brain abnormalities in psychoses.
METHOD: 249 patients with a broad DSM-IV schizophrenia spectrum disorder or 
bipolar disorder were consecutively recruited to the TOP research study 
(mean±age: 30.7±10.9; gender: 49% males). History of childhood trauma was 
obtained using the Childhood Trauma Questionnaire. Cognitive function was 
assessed through a standardized neuropsychological test battery. BDNF val66met 
was genotyped using standardized procedures. A sub-sample of n=106 Caucasians 
with a broad DSM-IV schizophrenia spectrum disorder or bipolar disorder 
(mean±age: 32.67±10.85; 49% males) had data on sMRI.
RESULTS: Carriers of the Methionine (met) allele exposed to high level of 
childhood abuse demonstrated significantly poorer cognitive functioning compared 
to homozygotic Valine (val/val) carriers. Taking in consideration multiple 
testing, using a more conservative p value, this was still shown for physical 
abuse and emotional abuse, as well as a trend level for sexual abuse. Further, 
met carriers exposed to high level of childhood sexual abuse showed reduced 
right hippocampal volume (r(2)=0.43; p=0.008), and larger right and left lateral 
ventricles (r(2)=0.37; p=0.002, and r(2)=0.27; p=0.009, respectively). Our 
findings were independent of age, gender, diagnosis and intracranial volume.
CONCLUSION: Our data demonstrate that in patients with psychoses, met carriers 
of the BDNF val66met with high level of childhood abuse have more cognitive and 
brain abnormalities than all other groups.

© 2013.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pnpbp.2013.07.008
PMID: 23876786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


942. Evid Based Child Health. 2013 Mar 7;8(2):266-315. doi: 10.1002/ebch.1903.

Cochrane review: social skills groups for people aged 6 to 21 with autism 
spectrum disorders (ASD).

Reichow B(1), Steiner AM, Volkmar F.

Author information:
(1)Child Study Center, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT, USA. 
brian.reichow@yale.edu

BACKGROUND: Since autism was first described, major difficulties in social 
interaction have been a defining feature of individuals with autism spectrum 
disorders (ASD). Social skills groups are a common intervention for individuals 
with ASD. Although a frequently recommended practice, the few studies that have 
addressed the efficacy of social skills groups have shown mixed results.
OBJECTIVES: To determine the effectiveness of social skills groups for improving 
social competence, social communication, and quality of life for people with ASD 
who are six to 21 years of age.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched the following databases in December 2011: CENTRAL 
(2011 Issue 4), MEDLINE (1948 to November Week 3, 2011), EMBASE (1980 to Week 
50, 2011), PsycINFO (1887 to December Week 2, 2011), CINAHL (1937 to current), 
ERIC (1966 to current), Sociological Abstracts (1952 to current), OCLC WorldCat 
(12 December 2011), Social Science Citation Index (1970 to 16 December 2011), 
and the metaRegister of Controlled Trials (20 December 2011). We also searched 
the reference lists of published papers.
SELECTION CRITERIA: Randomized control trials (RCTs) comparing treatment (social 
skills groups) with a control group who were not receiving the treatment for 
participants aged six to 21 years with ASD. The control group could be no 
intervention, wait list, or treatment as usual. Outcomes sought were 
standardized measures of social competence, social communication, quality of 
life, emotion recognition, and any other specific behaviors.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two review authors independently selected and 
appraised studies for inclusion and assessed the risk of bias in each included 
study. All outcome data were continuous and standardized mean difference effect 
sizes (ES) with small sample correction were calculated. We conducted 
random-effects meta-analysis where possible.
MAIN RESULTS: We included five RCTs evaluating the effects of social skills 
groups in 196 participants with ASD aged 6 to 21 years old. The results show 
there is some evidence that social skills groups improve overall social 
competence (ES = 0.47, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.16 to 0.78, P = 0.003) and 
friendship quality (ES = 0.41, 95% CI 0.02 to 0.81, P = 0.04) for this 
population. No differences were found between treatment and control groups in 
relation to emotional recognition (ES = 0.34, 95% CI -0.20 to 0.88, P = 0.21) 
assessed in two studies or social communication as related to the understanding 
of idioms (ES = 0.05, 95% CI -0.63 to 0.72, P = 0.89), which was assessed in 
only one study. Two additional quality of life outcomes were evaluated, with 
results of single studies suggesting decreases in loneliness (ES = -0.66, 95% CI 
-1.15 to -0.17) but no effect on child or parental depression. No adverse events 
were reported. Given the nature of the intervention and the selected outcome 
measures, the risk of performance and detection bias are high. There is limited 
generalizability from the studies as they were all conducted in the US; they 
focused mainly on children aged 7 to 12, and the participants were all of 
average or above average intelligence.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: There is some evidence that social skills groups can 
improve social competence for some children and adolescents with ASD. More 
research is needed to draw more robust conclusions, especially with respect to 
improvements in quality of life.

Copyright © 2013 The Cochrane Collaboration. Published by John Wiley & Sons, 
Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/ebch.1903
PMID: 23877884 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


943. Zhonghua Yi Shi Za Zhi. 2013 Jan;43(1):9-17.

[Latest evidence about longevity of Sun Simiao].

[Article in Chinese]

Song ZM(1).

Author information:
(1)Museum of Medical History, Shanxi University of Chinese Medicine, Xianyang, 
712046, China.

Recording in the preface of Binglishufu (written by Lu Zhaolin of the Tang 
Dynasty) was the only direct evidence about the longevity of Sun Simiao. It 
recorded 'Sun Simiao said since his birth in the Xinyou Year of the Kaihuang 
Period, he was 93 years old'. But there were disputes over the time of Xinyou 
Year-581 AD or 541 AD? It is easy to pick holes in both arguments and the whole 
research, so the conclusion is not reliable. Recordings in Biography of Sun 
Simiao, which said 'the governor of the Luozhou area marveled at Sun's 
intelligence and called him the saint child', are also fabricated. According to 
literature, 'in the 3(rd) year of the Xianqing Period, Sun Simiao was invited by 
the emperor and lived in the deserted house of the Boyang Princess. He was more 
than 90 years old and did not have any visual or hearing loss … he was good to 
give lectures at various schools like Zhuang and Lao … in the Zhou Xuan Emperor 
Period Sun was tired of royal affairs and chose to be a hermit in the Taibai 
Mountain' (Tanghuiyao, Datang Xinyu, Tanbinlu). Sun Simiao should have been born 
in 560 AD. This time conformed to the time of his other events. He was 20 when a 
hermit and was 99 when he was invited by the Emperor Gaozong in the 3(rd) year 
of Xianqing.

PMID: 23879977


944. Dev Psychopathol. 2013 Aug;25(3):857-78. doi: 10.1017/S0954579413000217.

Language and internalizing and externalizing behavioral adjustment: 
developmental pathways from childhood to adolescence.

Bornstein MH(1), Hahn CS, Suwalsky JT.

Author information:
(1)Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human 
Development, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA. 
Marc_H_Bornstein@nih.gov

Two independent prospective longitudinal studies that cumulatively spanned the 
age interval from 4 years to 14 years used multiwave designs to investigate 
developmental associations between language and behavioral adjustment 
(internalizing and externalizing behavior problems). Altogether 224 children, 
their mothers, and teachers provided data. Series of nested path analysis models 
were used to determine the most parsimonious and plausible paths among the three 
constructs over and above stability in each across age and their covariation at 
each age. In both studies, children with poorer language skills in early 
childhood had more internalizing behavior problems in later childhood and in 
early adolescence. These developmental paths between language and behavioral 
adjustment held after taking into consideration children's nonverbal 
intellectual functioning, maternal verbal intelligence, education, parenting 
knowledge, and social desirability bias, as well as family socioeconomic status, 
and they applied equally to girls and boys.

DOI: 10.1017/S0954579413000217
PMCID: PMC4151616
PMID: 23880396 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


945. Hum Psychopharmacol. 2013 Jul;28(4):289-307. doi: 10.1002/hup.2318.

Human psychobiology of MDMA or 'Ecstasy': an overview of 25 years of empirical 
research.

Parrott AC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Swansea University, Swansea, South Wales, UK. 
a.c.parrott@swansea.ac.uk

Comment in
    Hum Psychopharmacol. 2014 Mar;29(2):105-8.
    Hum Psychopharmacol. 2014 Mar;29(2):109-19.

AIMS: This paper aimed to review how scientific knowledge about the human 
psychobiology of MDMA has developed over time.
METHODS: In this paper, the empirical findings from earlier and later studies 
will be reviewed.
RESULTS: When MDMA was a 'novel psychoactive substance', it was not seen as a 
drug of abuse, as it displayed loss of efficacy. However, recreational users 
display a unique pattern of increasing doses, deteriorating cost-benefit ratios, 
and voluntary cessation. MDMA increases body temperature and thermal stress, 
with cortisol levels increased by 800% in dance clubbers. It can be extremely 
euphoric, although negative moods are also intensified. MDMA causes apoptosis 
(programmed cell death) and has been investigated for cancer therapy because of 
its anti-lymphoma properties. Recreational users show deficits in retrospective 
memory, prospective memory, higher cognition, problem solving, and social 
intelligence. Basic cognitive skills remain intact. Neuroimaging studies show 
reduced serotonin transporter levels across the cerebral cortex, which are 
associated with neurocognitive impairments. Deficits also occur in sleep 
architecture, sleep apnoea, complex vision, pain, neurohormones, and psychiatric 
status. Ecstasy/MDMA use during pregnancy leads to psychomotor impairments in 
the children.
CONCLUSIONS: The damaging effects of Ecstasy/MDMA are far more widespread than 
was realized a few years ago, with new neuropsychobiological deficits still 
emerging.

Copyright © 2013 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hup.2318
PMID: 23881877 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


946. Front Psychol. 2013 Jul 17;4:442. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2013.00442. eCollection 
2013.

Gender differences in school achievement: The role of self-regulation.

Weis M(1), Heikamp T, Trommsdorff G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Developmental and Cross-Cultural Psychology, 
University of Konstanz Konstanz, Germany.

This study examined whether different aspects of self-regulation (i.e., emotion 
and behavior regulation) account for gender differences in German and 
mathematics achievement. Specifically, we investigated whether higher school 
achievement by girls in comparison to boys can be explained by self-regulation. 
German and mathematics achievement were assessed in a sample of 53 German fifth 
graders (19 boys, 34 girls) using formal academic performance tests (i.e., 
reading, writing, mathematics) and teachers' ratings (i.e., grades in German and 
mathematics). Moreover, teachers rated children's behavior regulation using the 
Self-Control Scale (SCS-K-D). Children's self-reported strategies of emotion 
regulation were assessed with the Questionnaire for the Measurement of Stress 
and Coping in Children and Adolescents (SSKJ 3-8). Age and intelligence (CFT 
20-R) were included as control variables. Analyses of mean differences showed 
that girls outperformed boys in German achievement and behavior regulation. 
Regression analyses, using a bootstrapping method, revealed that relations 
between gender and German achievement were mediated by behavior regulation. 
Furthermore, we found a suppression effect of behavior regulation on the 
relation between gender and mathematics achievement: boys' mathematics 
achievement was underestimated when the analyses did not control for behavior 
regulation. We discuss these results from a developmental perspective and within 
the theoretical framework of self-regulation and achievement.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2013.00442
PMCID: PMC3713251
PMID: 23882244


947. Mol Syndromol. 2013 Jun;4(5):246-9. doi: 10.1159/000351765. Epub 2013 Jun 8.

Haploinsufficiency of ANKRD11 (16q24.3) Is Not Obligatorily Associated with 
Cognitive Impairment but Shows a Clinical Overlap with Silver-Russell Syndrome.

Spengler S(1), Oehl-Jaschkowitz B, Begemann M, Hennes P, Zerres K, Eggermann T.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Humangenetik, RWTH Aachen, Aachen, Germany.

Microdeletions in 16q24.3 are associated with intellectual disability and a 
specific phenotype, e.g. short stature and a prominent forehead. The 16q24.3 
microdeletion syndrome shows a broad phenotypic overlap with the KBG syndrome, 
which is caused by mutations within the ANKRD11 gene. Furthermore, both KBG and 
the 16q24.3 microdeletion syndromes show clinical findings reminiscent of 
Silver-Russell syndrome (SRS), an imprinting disorder characterized by severe 
primordial growth retardation. In a cohort of patients referred as SRS, we 
previously identified a 16q24.3 deletion, but at that time, only patients with 
larger imbalances in 16q24.3 and intellectual disability had been published. 
Considering the recent description of the ANKRD11 gene as the causative factor 
for the 2 16q24.3-associated disorders, we now classified our patient as a 
16q24.3 microdeletion syndrome patient exhibiting some characteristic features 
but normal intelligence. Our case illustrates the broad clinical spectrum 
associated with microdeletions, and we confirm that the 16q24.3 microdeletion 
syndrome is a further microdeletion syndrome with very variable expressivity. 
Indeed, our case is the first 16q24.3 patient of normal intelligence, but we 
assume that this variant is present in further mentally healthy probands which 
have not yet been tested. In conclusion, the detection of the 16q24.3 deletion 
in a proband of unremarkable intellectual capacities once again illustrates the 
need to perform molecular karyotyping in dysmorphic patients with normal 
intelligence.

DOI: 10.1159/000351765
PMCID: PMC3711485
PMID: 23885231


948. Front Psychol. 2013 Jul 22;4:454. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2013.00454. eCollection 
2013.

What is the emotional core of the multidimensional Machiavellian personality 
trait?

Al Aïn S(1), Carré A, Fantini-Hauwel C, Baudouin JY, Besche-Richard C.

Author information:
(1)Developmental Ethology and Cognitive Psychology Group, Center for Smell, 
Taste, and Food Science, UMR 6265, CNRS and 1324 INRA, Université de Bourgogne 
Dijon, France.

Machiavellianism is a personality trait characterized by interpersonal 
manipulation and associated with specific patterns of emotional and social 
cognition skills. The aim of this study was to investigate its socio-cognitive 
characteristics by determining its association and predictors on the basis of a 
multidimensional approach to Machiavellianism. We used Mach IV scale to assess 
"Machiavellian Intelligence" skill of participants (Christie and Geis, 1970). It 
includes three subscales that are (1) the use of deceit in interpersonal 
relationships, (2) a cynical view of human nature and (3) the lack of morality. 
Associations were found between Machiavellianism and low levels of empathy and 
affective ToM, and high levels of alexithymia, anhedonia, depression, and 
anxiety. These associations were observed in varying proportions depending on 
the three subscales of Machiavellianism. The addition of anhedonia and 
trait-anxiety to the concepts of empathy and alexithymia made it possible to 
gain a better understanding of the emotional core of Machiavellianism. These 
findings are discussed in the light of developmental and adaptive perspectives.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2013.00454
PMCID: PMC3717508
PMID: 23885245


949. J Health Organ Manag. 2013;27(3):312-29. doi: 10.1108/JHOM-Jul-2012-0132.

Achieving organisational competence for clinical leadership: the role of high 
performance work systems.

Leggat SG(1), Balding C.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health and Human Biosciences, La Trobe University, Bundoora, 
Australia. s.leggat@latrobe.edu.au

PURPOSE: While there has been substantial discussion about the potential for 
clinical leadership in improving quality and safety in healthcare, there has 
been little robust study. The purpose of this paper is to present the results of 
a qualitative study with clinicians and clinician managers to gather opinions on 
the appropriate content of an educational initiative being planned to improve 
clinical leadership in quality and safety among medical, nursing and allied 
health professionals working in primary, community and secondary care.
DESIGN/METHODOLOGY/APPROACH: In total, 28 clinicians and clinician managers 
throughout the state of Victoria, Australia, participated in focus groups to 
provide advice on the development of a clinical leadership program in quality 
and safety. An inductive, thematic analysis was completed to enable the themes 
to emerge from the data.
FINDINGS: Overwhelmingly the participants conceptualised clinical leadership in 
relation to organisational factors. Only four individual factors, comprising 
emotional intelligence, resilience, self-awareness and understanding of other 
clinical disciplines, were identified as being important for clinical leaders. 
Conversely seven organisational factors, comprising role clarity and 
accountability, security and sustainability for clinical leaders, selective 
recruitment into clinical leadership positions, teamwork and decentralised 
decision making, training, information sharing, and transformational leadership, 
were seen as essential, but the participants indicated they were rarely 
addressed. The human resource management literature includes these seven 
components, with contingent reward, reduced status distinctions and measurement 
of management practices, as the essential organisational underpinnings of high 
performance work systems.
PRACTICAL IMPLICATIONS: The results of this study propose that clinical 
leadership is an organisational property, suggesting that capability frameworks 
and educational programs for clinical leadership need a broader organisation 
focus.
ORIGINALITY/VALUE: The paper makes clear that clinical leadership was not 
perceived to be about vesting leadership skills in individuals, but about 
ensuring health care organisations were equipped to conceptualise and support a 
model of distributive leadership.

DOI: 10.1108/JHOM-Jul-2012-0132
PMID: 23885396 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


950. Psychiatr Pol. 2013 May-Jun;47(3):519-30.

[Selected aspects of social cognition in patient with total agenesis of the 
corpus callosum (ACC) and Arnold-Chiari desease--case study].

[Article in Polish]

Daniluk B(1), Borkowska AR, Kaliszewska A.

Author information:
(1)Zakład Psychologii Klinicznej i Neuropsychologii UMCS w Lublinie.

AIM: The goal of the research was a characteristic of emotional-social 
competencies and communicative abilities in a 16-years old patient with ACC and 
Arnold-Chiari disease and higher than average intelligence.
METHOD: RHLB-PL was applied.
RESULTS: Total score in RHLB-PL suggested language and communication impairment. 
The greatest problems were observed in the field of behavioral self-control and 
discourse abilities. The patient had difficulties in the topic of the discourse 
maintaining, resisting from production of unconnected topics and comments, 
interject inappropriate remarks. Problems in humor comprehension and the 
dissociation between relative high level of written metaphors analysis abilities 
and low level of Picture Metaphors perception and explanation were observed. 
Linguistic Prosody was average.
CONCLUSION: Patient M.J. with agenesis of corpus callosum presented high number 
of deficits typical in right hemisphere damage patients. It is possible to 
explain that fact in the context of interhemispheric transfer disorders, 
specially when complex material was processed.

PMID: 23885545 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


951. Res Dev Disabil. 2013 Oct;34(10):3218-25. doi: 10.1016/j.ridd.2013.06.033. Epub 
2013 Jul 22.

Cognitive flexibility impairments in children with autism spectrum disorders: 
links to age, gender and child outcomes.

Memari AH(1), Ziaee V, Shayestehfar M, Ghanouni P, Mansournia MA, Moshayedi P.

Author information:
(1)Sports Medicine Research Center, Neuroscience Institute, Tehran University of 
Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. Electronic address: 
amirmemari@farabi.tums.ac.ir.

There are still many questions about the cognitive flexibility in autism 
spectrum disorder (ASD) that remain unanswered. The goal of current study was to 
evaluate cognitive flexibility patterns and their demographic, clinical and 
behavioral correlates in large sample of children with ASD. A total of 123 
children (94 boys and 29 girls) with ASD aged 7-14 years were assessed on the 
Wisconsin card sorting test (WCST). Findings showed that gender but not age was 
associated with the cognitive flexibility performance in ASD. Individuals who 
had more parent-reported language deficits, lower level of intelligence and 
education, and showed lower daily sleep time or more engagement in solitary 
instead of social daily activities were more likely to demonstrate 
perseveration. Findings provide tentative evidence of a link between cognitive 
flexibility deficits and sociodemographic or clinical child outcomes in ASD.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ridd.2013.06.033
PMID: 23886763 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


952. Nurse Educ Today. 2014 Apr;34(4):520-5. doi: 10.1016/j.nedt.2013.07.001. Epub 
2013 Jul 23.

Associations between emotional intelligence, depression and suicide risk in 
nursing students.

Aradilla-Herrero A(1), Tomás-Sábado J(2), Gómez-Benito J(3).

Author information:
(1)Gimbernat Nursing School, Autonomous University of Barcelona, Barcelona, 
Spain. Electronic address: amor.aradilla@eug.es.
(2)Gimbernat Nursing School, Autonomous University of Barcelona, Barcelona, 
Spain.
(3)Faculty of Psychology and Institute for Brain, Cognition and Behaviour 
(IR3C), University of Barcelona, Barcelona Spain.

BACKGROUND: The most important factor which predisposes young people to suicide 
is depression, although protective factors such as self-esteem, emotional 
adaptation and social support may reduce the probability of suicidal ideation 
and suicide attempts. Several studies have indicated an elevated risk of suicide 
for health-related professions. Little is known, however, about the relationship 
between perceived emotional intelligence and suicide risk among nursing 
students.
OBJECTIVES: The main goals were to determine the prevalence of suicide risk in a 
sample of nursing students, to examine the relationship between suicide risk and 
perceived emotional intelligence, depression, trait anxiety and self-esteem, and 
to identify any gender differences in relation to these variables.
METHOD: Cross-sectional study of nursing students (n=93) who completed 
self-report measures of perceived emotional intelligence (Trait Meta-Mood Scale, 
which evaluates three dimensions: emotional attention, clarity and repair), 
suicide risk (Plutchik Suicide Risk Scale), self-esteem (Rosenberg Self-esteem 
Scale), depression (Zung Self-Rating Depression Scale) and anxiety (Trait scale 
of the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory).
RESULTS: Linear regression analysis confirmed that depression and emotional 
attention are significant predictors of suicidal ideation. Moreover, suicide 
risk showed a significant negative association with self-esteem and with 
emotional clarity and repair. Gender differences were only observed in relation 
to depression, on which women scored significantly higher. Overall, 14% of the 
students were considered to present a substantial suicide risk.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings suggest that interventions to prevent suicidal 
ideation among nursing students should include strategies to detect mood 
disorders (especially depression) and to improve emotional coping skills. In 
line with previous research the results indicate that high scores on emotional 
attention are linked to heightened emotional susceptibility and an increased 
risk of suicide. The identification and prevention of factors associated with 
suicidal behaviour in nursing students should be regarded as a priority.

© 2013.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nedt.2013.07.001
PMID: 23886906 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


953. Genome Med. 2013 Jul 26;5(7):67. doi: 10.1186/gm471. eCollection 2013.

Whole-genome DNA/RNA sequencing identifies truncating mutations in RBCK1 in a 
novel Mendelian disease with neuromuscular and cardiac involvement.

Wang K(1), Kim C(2), Bradfield J(2), Guo Y(3), Toskala E(2), Otieno FG(2), Hou 
C(2), Thomas K(2), Cardinale C(2), Lyon GJ(4), Golhar R(2), Hakonarson H(5).

Author information:
(1)Zilkha Neurogenetic Institute, Keck School of Medicine, University of 
Southern California, 1501 San Pablo St, Los Angeles, CA 90089, USA ; Center for 
Applied Genomics, Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, 3615 Civic Center Blvd, 
Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA.
(2)Center for Applied Genomics, Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, 3615 Civic 
Center Blvd, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA.
(3)Zilkha Neurogenetic Institute, Keck School of Medicine, University of 
Southern California, 1501 San Pablo St, Los Angeles, CA 90089, USA.
(4)Center for Applied Genomics, Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, 3615 Civic 
Center Blvd, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA ; Stanley Institute for Cognitive 
Genomics, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, One Bungtown Rd, NY 11724, USA.
(5)Center for Applied Genomics, Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, 3615 Civic 
Center Blvd, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA ; Department of Pediatrics, University 
of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, 3451 Walnut St, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA.

BACKGROUND: Whole-exome sequencing has identified the causes of several 
Mendelian diseases by analyzing multiple unrelated cases, but it is more 
challenging to resolve the cause of extremely rare and suspected Mendelian 
diseases from individual families. We identified a family quartet with two 
children, both affected with a previously unreported disease, characterized by 
progressive muscular weakness and cardiomyopathy, with normal intelligence. 
During the course of the study, we identified one additional unrelated patient 
with a comparable phenotype.
METHODS: We performed whole-genome sequencing (Complete Genomics platform), 
whole-exome sequencing (Agilent SureSelect exon capture and Illumina Genome 
Analyzer II platform), SNP genotyping (Illumina HumanHap550 SNP array) and 
Sanger sequencing on blood samples, as well as RNA-Seq (Illumina HiSeq platform) 
on transformed lymphoblastoid cell lines.
RESULTS: From whole-genome sequence data, we identified RBCK1, a gene encoding 
an E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase, as the most likely candidate gene, with two 
protein-truncating mutations in probands in the first family. However, exome 
data failed to nominate RBCK1 as a candidate gene, due to poor regional 
coverage. Sanger sequencing identified a private homozygous splice variant in 
RBCK1 in the proband in the second family, yet SNP genotyping revealed a 1.2Mb 
copy-neutral region of homozygosity covering RBCK1. RNA-Seq confirmed aberrant 
splicing of RBCK1 transcripts, resulting in truncated protein products.
CONCLUSIONS: While the exact mechanism by which these mutations cause disease is 
unknown, our study represents an example of how the combined use of whole-genome 
DNA and RNA sequencing can identify a disease-predisposing gene for a novel and 
extremely rare Mendelian disease.

DOI: 10.1186/gm471
PMCID: PMC3971341
PMID: 23889995


954. Am J Geriatr Psychiatry. 2014 Nov;22(11):1168-79. doi: 
10.1016/j.jagp.2013.03.006. Epub 2013 Jul 24.

Regional cortical thinning predicts worsening apathy and hallucinations across 
the Alzheimer disease spectrum.

Donovan NJ(1), Wadsworth LP(2), Lorius N(3), Locascio JJ(2), Rentz DM(4), 
Johnson KA(5), Sperling RA(3), Marshall GA(3); Alzheimer Disease Neuroimaging 
Initiative.

Author information:
(1)Center for Alzheimer Research and Treatment, Brigham and Women's Hospital, 
Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA; Department of Neurology, Brigham and Women's 
Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA; Department of Psychiatry, Brigham 
and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA. Electronic address: 
njdonovan@partners.org.
(2)Department of Neurology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, MA.
(3)Center for Alzheimer Research and Treatment, Brigham and Women's Hospital, 
Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA; Department of Neurology, Massachusetts 
General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA.
(4)Center for Alzheimer Research and Treatment, Brigham and Women's Hospital, 
Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA; Department of Neurology, Brigham and Women's 
Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA; Department of Psychiatry, Brigham 
and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA; Department of 
Neurology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA.
(5)Center for Alzheimer Research and Treatment, Brigham and Women's Hospital, 
Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA; Department of Radiology, Massachusetts 
General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA.

OBJECTIVES: To examine regions of cortical thinning and cerebrospinal fluid 
(CSF) Alzheimer disease (AD) biomarkers associated with apathy and 
hallucinations in a continuum of individuals including clinically normal 
elderly, mild cognitive impairment, and mild AD dementia.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional and longitudinal studies.
SETTING: Fifty-seven research sites across North America.
PARTICIPANTS: Eight-hundred twelve community-dwelling volunteers; 413 
participants in the CSF sub-study.
MEASUREMENTS: Structural magnetic resonance imaging data and CSF concentrations 
of amyloid-β 1-42, total tau, and phosphorylated tau derived from the Alzheimer 
Disease Neuroimaging Initiative database were analyzed. Apathy and 
hallucinations were measured at baseline and over 3 years using the 
Neuropsychiatric Inventory-Questionnaire. General linear models and mixed 
effects models were used to evaluate the relationships among baseline cortical 
thickness in seven regions, and baseline CSF biomarkers, apathy, and 
hallucinations at baseline and longitudinally. Covariates included diagnosis, 
sex, age, apolipoprotein E genotype, premorbid intelligence, memory performance, 
processing speed, antidepressant use, and AD duration.
RESULTS: Reduced baseline inferior temporal cortical thickness was predictive of 
increasing apathy over time, and reduced supramarginal cortical thickness was 
predictive of increasing hallucinations over time. There was no association with 
cortical thickness at baseline. CSF biomarkers were not related to severity of 
apathy or hallucinations in cross-sectional or longitudinal analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that greater baseline temporal and parietal 
atrophy is associated with worsening apathy and hallucinations in a large AD 
spectrum cohort, while adjusting for multiple disease-related variables. 
Localized cortical neurodegeneration may contribute to the pathophysiology of 
apathy and hallucinations and their adverse consequences in AD.

Copyright © 2014 American Association for Geriatric Psychiatry. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jagp.2013.03.006
PMCID: PMC3960369
PMID: 23890751 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST AND SOURCES OF FUNDING No 
disclosures to report.


955. J Adolesc Health. 2013 Oct;53(4):520-5. doi: 10.1016/j.jadohealth.2013.06.007. 
Epub 2013 Jul 25.

Serious fighting-related injuries produce a significant reduction in 
intelligence.

Schwartz JA(1), Beaver KM.

Author information:
(1)College of Criminology and Criminal Justice, Florida State University, 
Tallahassee, Florida. Electronic address: jas10t@my.fsu.edu.

PURPOSE: Fighting-related injuries are common among adolescents within the 
United States, but how such injuries relate to subsequent cognitive functioning 
remains unclear. In particular, the long-term effect of fighting-related 
injuries suffered during important developmental periods, such as adolescence, 
on subsequent cognitive functioning has been overlooked by previous studies. The 
purpose of this study is to examine the association between sustaining serious 
fighting-related injuries and changes in verbal intelligence (IQ) over a 5- to 
6-year time period.
METHODS: Longitudinal multivariate statistical models were used to analyze data 
from the National Longitudinal Study of Adolescent Health collected between 1994 
and 2002 and analyzed in 2013.
RESULTS: Even a single fighting-related injury resulted in a significant 
reduction in IQ over time even after controlling for age, race, sex, and changes 
in socioeconomic status (SES) over the study period. Additionally, females 
experienced a significantly greater reduction in IQ from each fighting-related 
injury than males.
CONCLUSIONS: Fighting-related injuries have a significant impact on subsequent 
cognitive functioning and intelligence. The implications for future policies and 
research are discussed in more detail.

Copyright © 2013 Society for Adolescent Health and Medicine. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jadohealth.2013.06.007
PMID: 23890775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


956. Curr Biol. 2013 Aug 5;23(15):1449-53. doi: 10.1016/j.cub.2013.06.022. Epub 2013 
Jul 25.

Frequency-dependent enhancement of fluid intelligence induced by transcranial 
oscillatory potentials.

Santarnecchi E(1), Polizzotto NR, Godone M, Giovannelli F, Feurra M, Matzen L, 
Rossi A, Rossi S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Surgery and Neuroscience, University of Siena, 53100 
Siena, Italy. emilianosantarnecchi@gmail.com

Everyday problem solving requires the ability to go beyond experience by 
efficiently encoding and manipulating new information, i.e., fluid intelligence 
(Gf) [1]. Performance in tasks involving Gf, such as logical and abstract 
reasoning, has been shown to rely on distributed neural networks, with a crucial 
role played by prefrontal regions [2]. Synchronization of neuronal activity in 
the gamma band is a ubiquitous phenomenon within the brain; however, no evidence 
of its causal involvement in cognition exists to date [3]. Here, we show an 
enhancement of Gf ability in a cognitive task induced by exogenous rhythmic 
stimulation within the gamma band. Imperceptible alternating current [4] 
delivered through the scalp over the left middle frontal gyrus resulted in a 
frequency-specific shortening of the time required to find the correct solution 
in a visuospatial abstract reasoning task classically employed to measure Gf 
abilities (i.e., Raven's matrices) [5]. Crucially, gamma-band stimulation 
(γ-tACS) selectively enhanced performance only on more complex trials involving 
conditional/logical reasoning. The present finding supports a direct involvement 
of gamma oscillatory activity in the mechanisms underlying higher-order human 
cognition.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cub.2013.06.022
PMID: 23891115 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


957. Am J Geriatr Psychiatry. 2015 Mar;23(3):243-52. doi: 10.1016/j.jagp.2013.04.003. 
Epub 2013 Jul 23.

The perception of sexuality in older adults and its relationship with cognitive 
functioning.

Hartmans C(1), Comijs H(2), Jonker C(3).

Author information:
(1)GGZ Altrecht, Institute for Clinical and Outpatient Mental Health Care, Den 
Dolder, The Netherlands. Electronic address: c.hartmans@altrecht.nl.
(2)GGZ InGEEST, Department of Psychiatry, VU University Medical Center, 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(3)EMGO Institute for Health and Care Research, VU University Medical Center, 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVES: Investigating whether cognitive functioning is associated with the 
perception of one's sexuality in old age.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional analysis, using observation cycle 2005/2006 of the 
population-based prospective cohort of the Longitudinal Aging Study Amsterdam.
SETTING: Municipal registries in three Dutch regions.
PARTICIPANTS: 1,908 older adults (mean [standard deviation] age: 71 [8.87] 
years; 54% women).
MEASUREMENTS: Sexuality and intimacy were assessed using four questions. Four 
cognitive domains were assessed: general cognitive functioning (Mini-Mental 
State Examination), memory performance (Auditory Verbal Learning Test), 
processing speed (Coding Task), and fluid intelligence (Raven's Coloured 
Progressive Matrices). Multinomial regression analysis was used, with sexuality 
as outcome. The interaction effect between gender and sexuality was also tested.
RESULTS: Lower fluid intelligence was associated with perceiving sexuality as 
unimportant; lower general cognitive functioning was associated with perceiving 
sexuality as unimportant; and lower immediate memory recall was associated with 
evaluating sexual life as unpleasant. Associations were also found between lower 
fluid intelligence, processing speed, and general cognitive functioning, and 
agreeing with sexuality no longer being important. Lower processing speed, 
general cognitive functioning, and delayed memory recall were associated with 
disagreeing with a remaining need for intimacy when getting older. Finally, the 
association between fluid intelligence and perceiving sexuality as important, 
and the association between immediate memory recall score and evaluating sexual 
life as pleasant, was only significant in women. The association between lower 
general cognitive functioning and perceiving sexuality as unimportant seemed 
stronger in women compared with men.
CONCLUSIONS: Higher cognitive functioning was associated with the way in which 
older people perceive their current sexuality.

Copyright © 2015 American Association for Geriatric Psychiatry. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jagp.2013.04.003
PMID: 23891364 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


958. Comput Biol Chem. 2013 Dec;47:37-47. doi: 10.1016/j.compbiolchem.2013.04.007. 
Epub 2013 Jul 10.

Computational intelligence techniques in bioinformatics.

Hassanien AE(1), Al-Shammari ET, Ghali NI.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Computers and Information, Cairo University, 5 Ahmed Zewal Street, 
Orman, Giza, Egypt; Scientific Research Group in Egypt (SRGE), Egypt(1). 
Electronic address: aboitcairo@fci-cu.edu.eg.

Computational intelligence (CI) is a well-established paradigm with current 
systems having many of the characteristics of biological computers and capable 
of performing a variety of tasks that are difficult to do using conventional 
techniques. It is a methodology involving adaptive mechanisms and/or an ability 
to learn that facilitate intelligent behavior in complex and changing 
environments, such that the system is perceived to possess one or more 
attributes of reason, such as generalization, discovery, association and 
abstraction. The objective of this article is to present to the CI and 
bioinformatics research communities some of the state-of-the-art in CI 
applications to bioinformatics and motivate research in new trend-setting 
directions. In this article, we present an overview of the CI techniques in 
bioinformatics. We will show how CI techniques including neural networks, 
restricted Boltzmann machine, deep belief network, fuzzy logic, rough sets, 
evolutionary algorithms (EA), genetic algorithms (GA), swarm intelligence, 
artificial immune systems and support vector machines, could be successfully 
employed to tackle various problems such as gene expression clustering and 
classification, protein sequence classification, gene selection, DNA fragment 
assembly, multiple sequence alignment, and protein function prediction and its 
structure. We discuss some representative methods to provide inspiring examples 
to illustrate how CI can be utilized to address these problems and how 
bioinformatics data can be characterized by CI. Challenges to be addressed and 
future directions of research are also presented and an extensive bibliography 
is included.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.compbiolchem.2013.04.007
PMID: 23891719 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


959. Res Dev Disabil. 2013 Oct;34(10):3235-45. doi: 10.1016/j.ridd.2013.06.029. Epub 
2013 Jul 24.

Investigating the structure and invariance of the Wechsler Adult Intelligence 
Scales, Fourth Edition in a sample of adults with intellectual disabilities.

Reynolds MR(1), Ingram PB, Seeley JS, Newby KD.

Author information:
(1)The University of Kansas, United States. Electronic address: 
mreynolds@ku.edu.

Recent research has questioned whether the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scales 
(WAIS) measure the same constructs for adults with intellectual disabilities as 
they do for the general population (MacLean et al., 2011). Using the special 
validity sample of the WAIS-IV (Wechsler, 2008b), the structure of the WAIS-IV 
was investigated using confirmatory factor analysis and tested for measurement 
invariance across a sample with intellectual disabilities and a control group 
matched in demographic characteristics. The instrument demonstrated strong 
factorial invariance when the standard subtests were used. When the standard and 
supplemental subtests were included in the model, the WAIS-IV four-factor 
structure provided a model of measurement for the Subtest Scores in the 
intellectual disability group, but the Perceptual Reasoning factor demonstrated 
differentiation into Fluid Reasoning and Visual-Spatial factors in the matched 
control group. In general, the research findings suggest that the four-factor 
structure of the WAIS-IV is invariant across the intellectual disability and 
matched control groups.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ridd.2013.06.029
PMID: 23891724 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


960. Epilepsy Behav. 2013 Sep;28(3):460-6. doi: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2013.06.011. Epub 
2013 Jul 25.

A critical evaluation of the lateralizing significance of material-specific 
memory deficits in patients with mesial temporal lobe epilepsy with hippocampal 
sclerosis.

Jeyaraj MK(1), Menon RN, Justus S, Alexander A, Sarma PS, Radhakrishnan K.

Author information:
(1)R. Madhavan Nayar Center for Comprehensive Epilepsy Care, Sree Chitra Tirunal 
Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology, Trivandrum, India.

To critically assess the value of material-specific memory deficits in 
lateralizing temporal lobe dysfunction preoperatively, we compared the 
neuropsychological data of 50 consecutive patients with unilateral mesial 
temporal lobe epilepsy with hippocampal sclerosis (MTLE-HS; right: 31, left: 19) 
with those of 50 age- and education-matched healthy control subjects. On 
case-control comparison, both the subcohorts with left and right MTLE-HS 
performed poorly on intelligence tests, in addition to individual memory tests. 
However, comparison of the verbal and visual memory functions between subcohorts 
with right and left MTLE-HS revealed that learning trials and delayed word list 
recall were the only tests that hypothesized left temporal lobe dysfunction. We 
conclude that material-specific memory deficits are largely test driven, but 
there is a lateralizing role for task-specific deficits in left MTLE-HS. 
Although neuropsychological data help to define baseline neuropsychological 
impairment, caution should be exercised in interpreting the lateralizing value 
of material-specific memory deficits prior to surgery.

© 2013.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2013.06.011
PMID: 23891768 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


961. Biol Trace Elem Res. 2013 Oct;155(1):23-8. doi: 10.1007/s12011-013-9766-9. Epub 
2013 Jul 28.

Oral zinc supplementation may improve cognitive function in schoolchildren.

de Moura JE(1), de Moura EN, Alves CX, Vale SH, Dantas MM, Silva Ade A, Almeida 
Md, Leite LD, Brandão-Neto J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, 
Brazil.

Zinc is an important micronutrient for humans, and zinc deficiency among 
schoolchildren is deleterious to growth and development, immune competence, and 
cognitive function. However, the effect of zinc supplementation on cognitive 
function remains poorly understood. The purpose of our study was to evaluate the 
effect of oral zinc supplementation (5 mg Zn/day for 3 months) on the Full Scale 
Intelligence Quotient (FSIQ), Verbal Intelligence Quotient (VIQ), and 
Performance Intelligence Quotient (PIQ) using a Wechsler Intelligence Scale for 
Children (WISC-III). We studied 36 schoolchildren aged 6 to 9 years (7.8 ± 1.1) 
using a nonprobability sampling method. The baseline serum zinc concentrations 
increased significantly after zinc supplementation (p < 0.0001), with no 
difference between sexes. Tests were administered under basal conditions before 
and after zinc supplementation, and there was no difference in FSIQ according to 
gender or age. The results demonstrated that zinc improved the VIQ only in the 
Information Subtest (p = 0.009), although the supplementation effects were more 
significant in relation to the PIQ, as these scores improved for the Picture 
Completion, Picture Arrangement, Block Design, and Object Assembly Subtests (p = 
0.0001, for all subtests). In conclusion, zinc supplementation improved specific 
cognitive abilities, thereby positively influencing the academic performance of 
schoolchildren, even those without marginal zinc deficiency.

DOI: 10.1007/s12011-013-9766-9
PMID: 23892699 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


962. Atten Defic Hyperact Disord. 2013 Dec;5(4):353-60. doi: 
10.1007/s12402-013-0114-x. Epub 2013 Jul 28.

Comorbidity and continuity of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) 
from childhood to adolescence in Turkey.

Cak HT(1), Dinc GS, Tuzun Z, Evinc SG, Cop E, Cuhadaroglu Cetin F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Hacettepe University, Ankara, 
Turkey, tunacak@yahoo.com.

The aim of this study was to examine clinical outcomes, psychiatric comorbidity 
and neuropsychological characteristics in Turkish adolescents with an attention 
deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) diagnosis in childhood. A total of 45 
children with ADHD diagnosis and 28 children with a psychiatric diagnosis other 
than ADHD in a 1-year cohort of 7-10-year-olds were reevaluated 6 years later 
using Schedule for Affective Disorders and Schizophrenia for School-Age Children 
Present and Lifetime version and Wechsler Intelligence Scale for 
Children-Revised and Stroop Test TBAG version. This study shows that the 
clinical outcomes and the comorbidity patterns for ADHD from childhood to 
adolescence in Turkey are similar to reported rates in the Western countries. In 
the ADHD group, 75.6 % still has impairing ADHD symptoms and 46.6 % has comorbid 
psychiatric disorders. The main difference is anxiety disorders being the most 
common comorbid disorders (37.8 %) in Turkish ADHD youth. These findings stress 
the high comorbidity associated with ADHD and support the importance of 
assessment and treatment for ADHD and comorbidities during adolescence.

DOI: 10.1007/s12402-013-0114-x
PMID: 23893566 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


963. Autism Res. 2013 Dec;6(6):461-7. doi: 10.1002/aur.1311. Epub 2013 Jul 26.

Assessing planning and set-shifting abilities in autism: are 
experimenter-administered and computerised versions of tasks equivalent?

Williams D(1), Jarrold C.

Author information:
(1)Durham University, Science Site, Department of Psychology, Durham, UK.

Across studies, analysis of performance on classic measures of executive 
functioning (EF) among individuals with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) suggests 
that people with this disorder may be impaired only when tasks are 
experimenter-administered, but not when the same tasks are 
computer-administered. This would imply that the underlying cause of apparent 
executive dysfunction in ASD is a diminished ability to engage with another 
person/comprehend what another person expects, rather than a diminution of the 
control processes that typically underpin EF task performance. However, this 
suggestion is limited because, to our knowledge, no study has directly compared 
the equivalence of computer-administered and standard experimenter-administered 
versions of EF tasks that have been presented in counterbalanced order among a 
common sample of individuals with ASD. In the current study, 21 children with 
ASD and 22 age- and intelligence quotient (IQ)-matched comparison participants 
completed, in counterbalanced order, computerised and manual versions of both a 
planning task and a cognitive flexibility/set-shifting task. Contrary to 
expectation, results indicated that participants with ASD were equally impaired 
in terms of the key dependent variable on standard and computerised versions of 
both tasks. Practically, these results suggest that computer-administered and 
experimenter-administered versions of planning and set-shifting tasks are 
equivalent among individuals with ASD and can be used interchangeably in studies 
of EF among this population. Theoretically, these results challenge the notion 
that poor performance on EF tasks among school-aged children with ASD is only 
the result of a limited ability to engage with a human experimenter/comprehend 
socially presented rules.

© 2013 International Society for Autism Research, Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/aur.1311
PMID: 23893967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


964. Clin Neuropsychol. 2013;27(7):1131-49. doi: 10.1080/13854046.2013.821170. Epub 
2013 Jul 29.

Administering design fluency tests in school-aged children: analyses of design 
productivity over time, clustering, and switching.

Hurks PP(1).

Author information:
(1)a Department of Psychology and Neuroscience , University Maastricht , The 
Netherlands.

This study investigated the effects of child-related factors (age, sex, and 
intellectual abilities) upon design fluency (DF) test scores. A DF test, a 
semantic verbal fluency (VF) test, and a Block Design test, as a proxy of 
intelligence, were administered to N = 80 healthy native Dutch-speaking children 
aged 8.45-12.82 years. Three components of DF performance were examined, i.e., 
design productivity over time, clustering (i.e., generating designs that share 
visual-spatial similarities, such as addition, deletion, or rotation), and 
switching (i.e., shifting between strategies that children use to draw the 
designs). The relation between DF design productivity over time and age was 
curvilinear, that is, improvements in test scores were much more pronounced for 
younger children than for older children. No (curvi)linear age effects were 
found in DF productivity scores, clustering, and switching. Also, our results 
did not reveal a relation between intellectual abilities and DF test scores. 
Furthermore, DF test scores and VF test scores were only partially significant, 
i.e., only significant positive correlations were found between the productivity 
scores of the VF test and the DF test. Finally, higher order sex by age 
interactions were found in all DF test scores, i.e., girls <10.5 years produced 
more designs, made longer clusters, and switched less than boys. Opposite sex 
differences were found for children >10.5 years. This illustrates the utility of 
combining quantitative scoring procedures with in-depth clustering and switching 
to understand interactions between age and sex during DF tests.

DOI: 10.1080/13854046.2013.821170
PMID: 23895183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


965. Sch Psychol Q. 2014 Mar;29(1):38-51. doi: 10.1037/spq0000032. Epub 2013 Jul 29.

Construct validity of the WISC-IV with a referred sample: direct versus indirect 
hierarchical structures.

Canivez GL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Eastern Illinois University.

The Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children-Fourth Edition (WISC-IV) is one of 
the most frequently used intelligence tests in clinical assessments of children 
with learning difficulties. Construct validity studies of the WISC-IV have 
generally supported the higher order structure with four correlated first-order 
factors and one higher-order general intelligence factor, but recent studies 
have supported an alternate model in which general intelligence is 
conceptualized as a breadth factor rather than a superordinate factor (M. W. 
Watkins, 2010, Structure of the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children-Fourth 
Edition among a national sample of referred students, Psychological Assessment, 
Vol. 22, pp. 782-787; M. W. Watkins, G. L. Canivez, T. James, K. & R. Good, in 
press, Construct validity of the WISC-IVUK with a large referred Irish sample, 
International Journal of School and Educational Psychology). WISC-IV core 
subtest data obtained from evaluations to assess learning difficulties in 345 
children (224 boys, 121 girls) were examined. One through four, first order 
factor models and indirect versus direct hierarchical models were compared using 
confirmatory factor analyses. The correlated four-factor Wechsler model provided 
good fit to these data, but the direct hierarchical model showed statistically 
significant improvement over the indirect hierarchical model and correlated 
four-factor model. The direct hierarchical model was judged the best explanation 
of the WISC-IV factor structure, with the general factor accounting for 71.6% of 
the common variance while the first order factors accounted for 2.4-10.3% of the 
common variance. Thus, the results with the present sample of referred children 
were similar to those from other investigations (G. E. Gignac, 2005, Revisiting 
the factor structure of the WAIS-R: Insights through nested factor modeling, 
Assessment, Vol. 12, pp. 320-329; G. E. Gignac, 2006, The WAIS-III as a nested 
factors model: A useful alternative to the more conventional oblique and 
higher-order models, Journal of Individual Differences, Vol. 27, pp. 73-86; P. 
Golay, I. Reverte, J. Rossier, N. Favez, & T. Lecerf, 2012, Further insights on 
the French WISC-IV factor structure through Bayesian structural equation 
modeling. Psychological Assessment, advance online publication; M. W. Watkins, 
2010, Structure of the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children-Fourth Edition 
among a national sample of referred students, Psychological Assessment, Vol. 22, 
pp. 782-787; M. W. Watkins, G. L. Canivez, T. James, K. & R. Good, in press, 
Construct validity of the WISC-IV(UK) with a large referred Irish sample, 
International Journal of School and Educational Psychology) supporting primary 
interpretation of the Full Scale IQ rather than the factor index scores.

PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/spq0000032
PMID: 23895320 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


966. Am Psychol. 2013 Jul-Aug;68(5):396-7. doi: 10.1037/a0032872.

Arthur R. Jensen (1923-2012).

Lubinski D(1).

Author information:
(1)Vanderbilt University.

Presents an obituary for Arthur R. Jensen. Arthur R. Jensen epitomized the 
"London School" of psychological thought, studying human individuality as a 
branch of biology by teaming evolutionary, genetic, and 
experimental/multivariate/quantitative methods to examine psychological 
diversity. His intellectual ancestry traces back through his mentor Hans Eysenck 
to Cyril Burt, Charles Spearman, and, ultimately, Sir Francis Galton. Haggbloom 
et al. (2002, Review of General Psychology) ranked him among the top 50 eminent 
psychologists of the 20th century primarily for his work on the construct of 
general intelligence (g) and its antecedents. But he was also known for his 
studies in human learning, memory, the cumulative deficit hypothesis, Spearman's 
hypothesis, the speed of information hypothesis, and test bias. Yet, because of 
the controversial nature of his work, his career was conspicuously marked by 
tensions: The extent to which his work was either admired or reviled by many 
distinguished scientists is unparalleled.

DOI: 10.1037/a0032872
PMID: 23895609 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


967. Neuropsychologia. 2013 Sep;51(11):2305-17. doi: 
10.1016/j.neuropsychologia.2013.06.031. Epub 2013 Jul 26.

Visuo-spatial working memory is an important source of domain-general 
vulnerability in the development of arithmetic cognition.

Ashkenazi S(1), Rosenberg-Lee M, Metcalfe AW, Swigart AG, Menon V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry & Behavioral Sciences, Stanford University School of 
Medicine, Stanford, CA 94305, USA; School of Education, The Hebrew University of 
Jerusalem, Mount Scopus, Jerusalem 91905, Israel. Electronic address: 
sarit.ashkenazi@mail.huji.ac.il.

The study of developmental disorders can provide a unique window into the role 
of domain-general cognitive abilities and neural systems in typical and atypical 
development. Mathematical disabilities (MD) are characterized by marked 
difficulty in mathematical cognition in the presence of preserved intelligence 
and verbal ability. Although studies of MD have most often focused on the role 
of core deficits in numerical processing, domain-general cognitive abilities, in 
particular working memory (WM), have also been implicated. Here we identify 
specific WM components that are impaired in children with MD and then examine 
their role in arithmetic problem solving. Compared to typically developing (TD) 
children, the MD group demonstrated lower arithmetic performance and lower 
visuo-spatial working memory (VSWM) scores with preserved abilities on the 
phonological and central executive components of WM. Whole brain analysis 
revealed that, during arithmetic problem solving, left posterior parietal 
cortex, bilateral dorsolateral and ventrolateral prefrontal cortex, cingulate 
gyrus and precuneus, and fusiform gyrus responses were positively correlated 
with VSWM ability in TD children, but not in the MD group. Additional analyses 
using a priori posterior parietal cortex regions previously implicated in WM 
tasks, demonstrated a convergent pattern of results during arithmetic problem 
solving. These results suggest that MD is characterized by a common locus of 
arithmetic and VSWM deficits at both the cognitive and functional 
neuroanatomical levels. Unlike TD children, children with MD do not use VSWM 
resources appropriately during arithmetic problem solving. This work advances 
our understanding of VSWM as an important domain-general cognitive process in 
both typical and atypical mathematical skill development.

© 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuropsychologia.2013.06.031
PMCID: PMC4136716
PMID: 23896444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


968. Neuroscience. 2013 Oct 10;250:664-96. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2013.07.041. 
Epub 2013 Jul 26.

Questioning the interpretations of behavioral observations of cetaceans: is 
there really support for a special intellectual status for this mammalian order?

Manger PR(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Anatomical Sciences, University of the Witwatersrand, 7 York Road, 
Parktown, 2193 Johannesburg, South Africa. Electronic address: 
Paul.Manger@wits.ac.za.

Comment in
    Brain Behav Evol. 2014;83(3):177-80.

This review evaluates and contextualizes the behavioral studies undertaken on 
cetaceans in terms of the relationship of these behaviors to special levels of 
intelligence associated with these marine mammals and the evolution of their 
relatively and absolutely large brain size. Many believe that the large size of 
the cetacean brain and reported behaviors indicate the need to create a special 
status for these animals in terms of their intellect, positing that they are 
second to humans in terms of general intelligence. Cetacean brains became 
relatively large approximately 32millionyearsago, at the Archaeocete-Neocete 
faunal transition, and have since remained stable in relative size. The 
behaviors reported for modern cetaceans are thought to parallel those of great 
apes, to the exclusion of other mammals. By creating an autocatalytic model of 
cetacean brain evolution, the behaviors thought to be indicative of 
sophisticated cognitive processes can be assessed as to their potential 
involvement in the evolution of larger brains in cetaceans. By contextualizing 
these behaviors in a broader comparative framework, and not the limited cetacean 
- great ape comparisons mostly used, it is evident that the behaviors used to 
argue for high levels of intelligence in cetaceans are found commonly across 
mammals and other vertebrates, and are often observed in invertebrates. This 
contextualization indicates that cetacean intelligence is qualitatively no 
different to other vertebrates. In addition, the inability of cetaceans to 
surpass Piaget stage 4/5 on object permanence tests and to solve an "if and only 
if, then" abstract task indicates the possibility that their levels of general 
intelligence may be less than that seen in other vertebrates. Sophisticated 
cognitive abilities appear to play no role in the evolution of large brain size 
in cetaceans, indicating that alternative theories of large brain size evolution 
in cetaceans should be considered in more detail.

Copyright © 2013 IBRO. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2013.07.041
PMID: 23896571 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


969. Arch Dis Child Fetal Neonatal Ed. 2013 Nov;98(6):F473-9. doi: 
10.1136/archdischild-2013-303692. Epub 2013 Jul 29.

Apgar scores at 10 min and outcomes at 6-7 years following hypoxic-ischaemic 
encephalopathy.

Natarajan G(1), Shankaran S, Laptook AR, Pappas A, Bann CM, McDonald SA, Das A, 
Higgins RD, Hintz SR, Vohr BR; Extended Hypothermia Subcommittee of the Eunice 
Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development 
Neonatal Research Network.

Collaborators: Jobe AH, Caplan MS, Laptook AR, Oh W, Hensman AM, Noel L, Watson 
VE, Walsh MC, Fanaroff AA, Bass N, Newman NS, Friedman HG, Siner BS, Schibler K, 
Donovan EF, Bridges K, Steichen JJ, Alexander B, Grisby C, Mincey HL, Hessling 
J, Gratton TL, Goldberg RN, Cotten C, Gustafson KE, Auten KJ, Foy KA, Fisher KA, 
Grimes S, Lohmeyer MB, Stoll BJ, Carlton DP, Jain L, Blackwelder AM, Hale EC, 
Fritz S, Wright LL, McClure EM, Wilson Archer S, Poindexter BB, Lemons JA, Appel 
DD, Bissey J, Herron DE, Miller LC, Richard L, Wilson LD, Poole W, O'Donnell 
Auman J, Cunningham M, Hastings BK, Newman JE, Petrie Huitema CM, Schaefer SE, 
Zaterka-Baxter KM, Van Meurs KP, Hintz SR, Stevenson DK, Ball M, DeAnda ME, 
Carlo WA, Ambalavanan N, Nelson KG, Collins MV, Cosby SS, Phillips VA, Smith LL, 
Fuller MG, West R, Finer NN, Kaegi D, Rasmussen MR, Arnell K, Henderson C, Rich 
W, Duara S, Hiriart-Fajardo S, Allison M, Calejo M, Everett-Thomas R, Frade 
Eguaras SM, Gauthier S, Phelps DL, Myers GJ, Hust D, Reubens LJ, Sánchez PJ, 
Broyles R, Laptook AR, Rosenfeld CR, Salhab WA, Heyne RJ, Boatman C, Dooley C, 
Hensley G, Hickman JF, Leps MH, Madison S, Miller NA, Morgan JS, Torres LE, 
Guzman A, Tyson JE, Kennedy KA, Akpa EG, Cluff PA, Franco CI, Lis AE, McDavid 
GE, Pierce Tate PL, Alaniz NI, Bradt PJ, Cedillo M, Dieterich S, Evans PW, Green 
C, Jiminez M, Major-Kincade T, Morris BH, Poundstone M, Reddoch S, Siddiki S, 
Simmons MC, Whitely LL, Wright SL, Valdés LM, Johnson YR, Goldston LA, Muran G, 
Kennedy D, Pruitt PJ, Gettner P, Konstantino M, Poulsen J, Romano E, Williams J, 
DeLancy S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Wayne State University, , Detroit, Michigan, USA.

AIM: To determine the association between 10 min Apgar scores and 6-7-year 
outcomes in children with perinatal hypoxic-ischaemic encephalopathy (HIE) 
enrolled in the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development 
Neonatal Research Network (NICHD NRN) whole body cooling randomised controlled 
trial (RCT).
METHODS: Evaluations at 6-7 years included the Wechsler Preschool and Primary 
Scale of Intelligence III or Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children IV and 
Gross Motor Functional Classification Scale. Primary outcome was death/moderate 
or severe disability. Logistic regression was used to examine the association 
between 10 min Apgar scores and outcomes after adjusting for birth weight, 
gestational age, gender, outborn status, hypothermia treatment and centre.
RESULTS: In the study cohort (n=174), 64/85 (75%) of those with 10 min Apgar 
score of 0-3 had death/disability compared with 40/89 (45%) of those with scores 
>3. Each point increase in 10 min Apgar scores was associated with a 
significantly lower adjusted risk of death/disability, death, death/IQ <70, 
death/cerebral palsy (CP) and disability, IQ<70 and CP among survivors (all 
p<0.05). Among the 24 children with a 10 min Apgar score of 0, five (20.8%) 
survived without disability. The risk-adjusted probabilities of death/disability 
were significantly lower in cooled infants with Apgar scores of 0-3; there was 
no significant interaction between cooling and Apgar scores (p=0.26).
CONCLUSIONS: Among children with perinatal HIE enrolled in the NICHD cooling 
RCT, 10 min Apgar scores were significantly associated with school-age outcomes. 
A fifth of infants with 10 min Apgar score of 0 survived without disability to 
school age, suggesting the need for caution in limiting resuscitation to a 
specified duration.

DOI: 10.1136/archdischild-2013-303692
PMCID: PMC4166405
PMID: 23896791 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


970. J Public Health (Oxf). 2014 Jun;36(2):213-24. doi: 10.1093/pubmed/fdt071. Epub 
2013 Jul 28.

Low birth weight and intelligence in adolescence and early adulthood: a 
meta-analysis.

Kormos CE(1), Wilkinson AJ(2), Davey CJ(2), Cunningham AJ(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Victoria, Victoria, Canada V8W 3P5.
(2)Department of Psychology, Ryerson University, Toronto, Canada M5B 2K3.
(3)Bridgepoint Health, Toronto, Canada M4M 2B5.

BACKGROUND: Research has demonstrated an association between low birth weight 
(LBW; <2500 g) and adverse intelligence quotient (IQ) outcomes in childhood and 
early adolescence. We systematically evaluated whether this association persists 
into late adolescence and early adulthood and also assessed the influence of age 
of IQ assessment on effect size.
METHODS: During Stage 1 (meta-analysis of data on adolescents/adults), we 
searched for relevant articles in PsychINFO, PubMed, Ovid, CINAHL, ProQuest and 
ERIC until February 2011 (no lower limit). Studies which assessed full-scale IQ 
among LBW individuals (<2500 g), aged 13 years and older, with a normal birth 
weight (NBW; ≥2500 g) comparison group were eligible. A random-effects 
meta-analysis provided a pooled estimate of the difference in IQ scores between 
LBW and NBW individuals. Publication bias was assessed using Rosenthal's classic 
fail-safe N and Duval and Tweedie's Trim and Fill. During Stage 2, we added data 
from the Kerr-Wilson et al. meta-analysis (which included data from children; in 
Meta-analysis of the association between preterm delivery and intelligence. 
Journal Public Health 2011;33:1-8) to our sample from Stage 1 and conducted a 
meta-regression to evaluate the effect of age of IQ assessment.
RESULTS: Using a total of 15 studies in Stage 1, it was demonstrated that NBW 
individuals scored an average of 7.63 IQ points higher than LBW individuals, CI 
= 5.95-9.31. After adjusting for publication bias, NBW samples demonstrated an 
IQ of 4.98 points higher than LBW samples, CI = 3.20-6.77. Furthermore, age at 
IQ assessment was a significant moderator of the association between birth 
weight and IQ, in that the effect size decreased from childhood into young 
adulthood.
CONCLUSIONS: Cognitive impairments associated with LBW persist into adolescence 
and early adulthood; however, the influence of LBW on IQ decreases from 
childhood to young adulthood. These conclusions must be interpreted with caution 
due to unmeasured variables and possible influence from publication bias.

© The Author 2013. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Faculty of 
Public Health. All rights reserved. For permissions, please e-mail: 
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/pubmed/fdt071
PMID: 23896861 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


971. JAMA Pediatr. 2013 Sep;167(9):836-44. doi: 10.1001/jamapediatrics.2013.455.

Infant feeding and childhood cognition at ages 3 and 7 years: Effects of 
breastfeeding duration and exclusivity.

Belfort MB, Rifas-Shiman SL, Kleinman KP, Guthrie LB, Bellinger DC, Taveras EM, 
Gillman MW, Oken E.

Comment in
    JAMA Pediatr. 2013 Sep;167(9):796-7.

IMPORTANCE: Breastfeeding may benefit child cognitive development, but few 
studies have quantified breastfeeding duration or exclusivity, nor has any study 
to date examined the role of maternal diet during lactation on child cognition.
OBJECTIVES: To examine relationships of breastfeeding duration and exclusivity 
with child cognition at ages 3 and 7 years and to evaluate the extent to which 
maternal fish intake during lactation modifies associations of infant feeding 
with later cognition.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: Prospective cohort study (Project Viva), a US 
prebirth cohort that enrolled mothers from April 22, 1999, to July 31, 2002, and 
followed up children to age 7 years, including 1312 Project Viva mothers and 
children.
MAIN EXPOSURE: Duration of any breastfeeding to age 12 months.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Child receptive language assessed with the Peabody 
Picture Vocabulary Test at age 3 years, Wide Range Assessment of Visual Motor 
Abilities at ages 3 and 7 years, and Kaufman Brief Intelligence Test and Wide 
Range Assessment of Memory and Learning at age 7 years.
RESULTS: Adjusting for sociodemographics, maternal intelligence, and home 
environment in linear regression, longer breastfeeding duration was associated 
with higher Peabody Picture Vocabulary Test score at age 3 years (0.21; 95% CI, 
0.03-0.38 points per month breastfed) and with higher intelligence on the 
Kaufman Brief Intelligence Test at age 7 years (0.35; 0.16-0.53 verbal points 
per month breastfed; and 0.29; 0.05-0.54 nonverbal points per month breastfed). 
Breastfeeding duration was not associated with Wide Range Assessment of Memory 
and Learning scores. Beneficial effects of breastfeeding on the Wide Range 
Assessment of Visual Motor Abilities at age 3 years seemed greater for women who 
consumed 2 or more servings of fish per week (0.24; 0.00-0.47 points per month 
breastfed) compared with less than 2 servings of fish per week (−0.01; −0.22 to 
0.20 points per month breastfed) (P = .16 for interaction).
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Our results support a causal relationship of 
breastfeeding duration with receptive language and verbal and nonverbal 
intelligence later in life.

DOI: 10.1001/jamapediatrics.2013.455
PMCID: PMC3998659
PMID: 23896931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest: None


972. Pharmacotherapy. 2014 Mar;34(3):251-9. doi: 10.1002/phar.1333. Epub 2013 Jul 29.

Palivizumab prophylaxis during nosocomial outbreaks of respiratory syncytial 
virus in a neonatal intensive care unit: predicting effectiveness with an 
artificial neural network model.

Saadah LM(1), Chedid FD, Sohail MR, Nazzal YM, Al Kaabi MR, Rahmani AY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Zayed Military Hospital, Abu Dhabi, United Arab 
Emirates.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To identify subgroups of premature infants who may benefit from 
palivizumab prophylaxis during nosocomial outbreaks of respiratory syncytial 
virus (RSV) infection.
DESIGN: Retrospective analysis using an artificial intelligence model.
SETTING: Level IIIB, 35-bed, neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) at a tertiary 
care hospital in the United Arab Emirates.
PATIENTS: One hundred seventy six premature infants, born at a gestational age 
of 22-34 weeks, and hospitalized during four RSV outbreaks that occurred between 
April 2005 and July 2007.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: We collected demographic and clinical data for 
each patient by using a standardized form. Input data consisted of seven 
categoric and continuous variables each. We trained, tested, and validated 
artificial neural networks for three outcomes of interest: mortality, days of 
supplemental oxygen, and length of NICU stay after the index case was 
identified. We compared variable impacts and performed reassignments with live 
predictions to evaluate the effect of palivizumab. Of the 176 infants, 31 
(17.6%) received palivizumab during the outbreaks. All neural network 
configurations converged within 4 seconds in less than 400 training cycles. 
Infants who received palivizumab required supplemental oxygen for a shorter 
duration compared with controls (105.2 ± 7.2 days vs 113.2 ± 10.4 days, 
p=0.003). This benefit was statistically significant in male infants whose birth 
weight was less than 0.7 kg and who had hemodynamically significant congenital 
heart disease. Length of NICU stay after identification of the index case and 
mortality were independent of palivizumab use.
CONCLUSION: Palivizumab may be an effective intervention during nosocomial 
outbreaks of RSV in a subgroup of extremely low-birth-weight male infants with 
hemodynamically significant congenital heart disease.

© 2013 Pharmacotherapy Publications, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/phar.1333
PMID: 23897635 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


973. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2013 Aug 20;110(34):13769-73. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.1304917110. Epub 2013 Jul 29.

Ant colonies outperform individuals when a sensory discrimination task is 
difficult but not when it is easy.

Sasaki T(1), Granovskiy B, Mann RP, Sumpter DJ, Pratt SC.

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences and Center for Social Dynamics and Complexity, 
Arizona State University, Tempe, AZ 85287, USA. tsasaki1@asu.edu

"Collective intelligence" and "wisdom of crowds" refer to situations in which 
groups achieve more accurate perception and better decisions than solitary 
agents. Whether groups outperform individuals should depend on the kind of task 
and its difficulty, but the nature of this relationship remains unknown. Here we 
show that colonies of Temnothorax ants outperform individuals for a difficult 
perception task but that individuals do better than groups when the task is 
easy. Subjects were required to choose the better of two nest sites as the 
quality difference was varied. For small differences, colonies were more likely 
than isolated ants to choose the better site, but this relationship was reversed 
for large differences. We explain these results using a mathematical model, 
which shows that positive feedback between group members effectively integrates 
information and sharpens the discrimination of fine differences. When the task 
is easier the same positive feedback can lock the colony into a suboptimal 
choice. These results suggest the conditions under which crowds do or do not 
become wise.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1304917110
PMCID: PMC3752206
PMID: 23898161 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


974. Front Psychol. 2013 Jul 24;4:433. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2013.00433. eCollection 
2013.

What is working memory capacity, and how can we measure it?

Wilhelm O(1), Hildebrandt A, Oberauer K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Ulm Ulm, Germany.

A latent variable study examined whether different classes of working-memory 
tasks measure the same general construct of working-memory capacity (WMC). Data 
from 270 subjects were used to examine the relationship between Binding, 
Updating, Recall-N-back, and Complex Span tasks, and the relations of WMC with 
secondary memory measures, indicators of cognitive control from two 
response-conflict paradigms (Simon task and Eriksen flanker task), and fluid 
intelligence. Confirmatory factor analyses support the concept of a general WMC 
factor. Results from structural-equation modeling show negligible relations of 
WMC with response-conflict resolution, and very strong relations of WMC with 
secondary memory and fluid intelligence. The findings support the hypothesis 
that individual differences in WMC reflect the ability to build, maintain and 
update arbitrary bindings.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2013.00433
PMCID: PMC3721021
PMID: 23898309


975. Addict Behav. 2013 Nov;38(11):2661-6. doi: 10.1016/j.addbeh.2013.06.017. Epub 
2013 Jun 28.

Cognitive impairments in poly-drug ketamine users.

Liang HJ(1), Lau CG, Tang A, Chan F, Ungvari GS, Tang WK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China.

RATIONALE: Cognitive impairment has been found to be reversible in people with 
substance abuse, particularly those using ketamine. Ketamine users are often 
poly-substance users. This study compared the cognitive functions of current and 
former ketamine users who were also abusing other psychoactive substances with 
those of non-users of illicit drugs as controls.
METHODS: One hundred ketamine poly-drug users and 100 controls were recruited. 
Drug users were divided into current (n = 32) and ex-users (n = 64) according to 
the duration of abstinence from ketamine (>30 days). The Beck Depression 
Inventory (BDI), the Hospital Anxiety Depression Scale (HADSA) and the Severity 
of Dependence Scale (SDS) were used to evaluate depression and anxiety symptoms 
and the severity of drug use, respectively. The cognitive test battery comprised 
verbal memory (Wechsler Memory Scale III: Logic Memory and Word List), visual 
memory (Rey-Osterrieth Complex Figure, ROCF), executive function (Stroop, 
Wisconsin Card Sorting Test, and Modified Verbal Fluency Test), working memory 
(Digit Span Backward), and general intelligence (Information, Arithmetic and 
Digit-Symbol Coding) tests.
RESULTS: Current users had higher BDI and HADSA scores than ex-users (p < 0.001 
for BDI and p = 0.022 for HADSA) and controls (p < 0.001 for BDI and p = 0.002 
for HADSA). Ex-users had higher BDI (p = 0.006) but equal HADSA scores (p = 
1.000) compared to controls. Both current and ex-users had lower scores on 
Logical Memory delayed recall (p = 0.038 for current users and p = 0.032 for 
ex-users) and ROCF delayed recall (p = 0.033 for current users and p = 0.014 for 
ex-users) than controls. Current users also performed worse on ROCF recognition 
than controls (p = 0.002). No difference was found between the cognitive 
functions of current and ex-users.
CONCLUSIONS: Ketamine poly-drug users displayed predominantly verbal and visual 
memory impairments, which persisted in ex-users. The interactive effect of 
ketamine and poly-drug use on memory needs further investigation.

© 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.addbeh.2013.06.017
PMID: 23899429 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


976. Iran J Public Health. 2013 Aug;42(8):813-8.

Comparative Assessment of Intelligence Quotient among Children Living in High 
and Low Fluoride Areas of Kutch, India-a Pilot Study.

Nagarajappa R(1), Pujara P(1), Sharda AJ(1), Asawa K(1), Tak M(1), Aapaliya 
P(1), Bhanushali N(1).

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Public Health Dentistry, Pacific Dental College and Hospital, 
Airport Road, Debari, Udaipur - 313024, Rajasthan, India.

BACKGROUND: Long-term ingestion of large amounts of fluoride can lead to 
potentially severe skeletal problems and neurological consequences. The study 
was conducted to assess and compare intelligence quotient of children living in 
high and low fluoride areas in Kutch, Gujarat, India.
METHODS: A cross-sectional descriptive survey was conducted among 100 school 
children aged 8 to 10 years, living in Kutch District, Gujarat, India during 
July 2012. Mundra (2.4 to 3.5 mg/L) and Bhuj (0.5mg/L) were the two villages 
randomly selected to represent the high and low water fluoride areas 
respectively. Seguin Form Board Test was used to assess the intelligence 
quotient (IQ) level of children. Descriptive statistics and independent sample 
t-test was used for analysis.
RESULTS: Mean scores for average, shortest and total timing category were found 
to be significantly higher (P<0.05) among children living in Mundra (30.45±4.97) 
than those living in Bhuj (23.20±6.21). Mean differences at 95% confidence 
interval for these timings were found to be 7.24, 7.28 and 21.78 respectively. 
In both the villages, females had lower mean timing scores than males but the 
difference was not statistically significant (P>0.05).
CONCLUSION: Chronic exposure to high levels of fluoride in water was observed to 
be associated with lower intelligence quotient.

PMCID: PMC4441911
PMID: 26056634


977. J Hum Genet. 2013 Oct;58(10):700-5. doi: 10.1038/jhg.2013.82. Epub 2013 Aug 1.

Influence of the NRGN gene on intellectual ability in schizophrenia.

Ohi K(1), Hashimoto R, Yasuda Y, Fukumoto M, Yamamori H, Umeda-Yano S, Fujimoto 
M, Iwase M, Kazui H, Takeda M.

Author information:
(1)1] Department of Psychiatry, Osaka University Graduate School of Medicine, 
Osaka, Japan [2] Core Research for Evolutionary Science and Technology (CREST) 
of Japan Science and Technology Agency (JST), Saitama, Japan [3] National 
Hospital Organization, Yamato Mental-Medical Center, Nara, Japan.

Genome-wide association studies have reported an association between 
schizophrenia and rs12807809 of the neurogranin (NRGN) gene. We have recently 
found that an rs12807809-rs12278912 haplotype of the gene is associated with 
schizophrenia in a Japanese population and that the NRGN expression of the 
high-risk TG haplotype is lower than that of the protective TA haplotype in 
immortalized lymphoblasts. In this study, we investigated the influences of 
neurogranin genotypes (rs12807809 and rs12278912), haplotypes and diplotypes and 
genetic variant-diagnosis interactions on intellectual ability in 414 Japanese 
patients with schizophrenia and healthy subjects. We detected possible effects 
of the genome-wide screen-supported rs12807809, haplotypes, diplotypes and their 
genetic variant-diagnosis interactions on intellectual abilities at the 
threshold level of P<0.05. After applying Bonferroni correction for 13 genotype 
measures and setting P-values for significance (P<0.0039; 0.05/13), three 
effects remained significant: the rs12807809-rs12278912 diplotype-diagnosis 
interactions on performance intelligence quotient (CG/CG: P=3.9 × 10(-13); 
TA/TA: P=1.1 × 10(-7)) and TA/TA diplotype on performance intelligence quotient 
in patients with schizophrenia (P=8.2 × 10(-8)) remained significant. The 
intellectual abilities of the high-risk TG/TG diplotype of the neurogranin gene 
were lower compared to those with the non-risk TA/TA diplotype. Our findings 
suggest that the genetic risk variant in the neurogranin gene may be related to 
reduced intellectual ability.

DOI: 10.1038/jhg.2013.82
PMID: 23903071 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


978. Epidemiology. 2013 Sep;24(5):643-50. doi: 10.1097/EDE.0b013e31829d5c93.

Prenatal methylmercury exposure and genetic predisposition to cognitive deficit 
at age 8 years.

Julvez J(1), Smith GD, Golding J, Ring S, Pourcain BS, Gonzalez JR, Grandjean P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Health, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, 
MA, USA.

BACKGROUND: Cognitive consequences at school age associated with prenatal 
methylmercury (MeHg) exposure may need to take into account nutritional and 
sociodemographic cofactors as well as relevant genetic polymorphisms.
METHODS: A subsample (n = 1,311) of the Avon Longitudinal Study of Parents and 
Children (Bristol, UK) was selected, and mercury (Hg) concentrations were 
measured in freeze-dried umbilical cord tissue as a measure of MeHg exposure. A 
total of 1135 children had available data on 247 single-nucleotide polymorphisms 
(SNPs) within relevant genes, as well as the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for 
Children Intelligence Quotient (IQ) scores at age 8 years. Multivariate 
regression models were used to assess the associations between MeHg exposure and 
IQ and to determine possible gene-environment interactions.
RESULTS: Hg concentrations indicated low background exposures (mean = 26 ng/g, 
standard deviation = 13). Log10-transformed Hg was positively associated with 
IQ, which attenuated after adjustment for nutritional and sociodemographic 
cofactors. In stratified analyses, a reverse association was found in higher 
social class families (for performance IQ, P value for interaction = 0.0013) 
among whom there was a wider range of MeHg exposure. Among 40 SNPs showing 
nominally significant main effects, MeHg interactions were detected for rs662 
(paraoxonase 1) and rs1042838 (progesterone receptor) (P < 0.05) and for 
rs3811647 (transferrin) and rs2049046 (brain-derived neurotrophic factor) (P < 
0.10).
CONCLUSIONS: In this population with a low level of MeHg exposure, there were 
only equivocal associations between MeHg exposure and adverse neuropsychological 
outcomes. Heterogeneities in several relevant genes suggest possible genetic 
predisposition to MeHg neurotoxicity in a substantial proportion of the 
population. Future studies need to address this possibility.

DOI: 10.1097/EDE.0b013e31829d5c93
PMCID: PMC6477679
PMID: 23903878 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they do not have any 
conflicts of interest.


979. J Neurosci. 2013 Jul 31;33(31):12835-43. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0449-13.2013.

Decoding the neuroanatomical basis of reading ability: a multivoxel morphometric 
study.

He Q(1), Xue G, Chen C, Chen C, Lu ZL, Dong Q.

Author information:
(1)National Key Laboratory of Cognitive Neuroscience and Learning, Beijing 
Normal University, Beijing 100875, China.

As a relatively recent cultural invention in human evolution, reading is an 
important gateway to personal development and socioeconomic success. Despite the 
well documented individual differences in reading ability, its neuroanatomical 
correlates have not been well understood, largely due to the fact that reading 
is a complex skill that consists of multiple components. Using a large sample of 
416 college students and 7 reading tasks, the present study successfully 
identified three uncorrelated components of reading ability: phonological 
decoding, form-sound association, and naming speed. We then tried to predict 
individuals' scores in these components from their gray matter volume (GMV) on a 
subset of participants (N = 253) with high-quality structural images, adopting a 
multivariate support vector regression analysis with tenfold cross-validation. 
Our results revealed distinct neural regions that supported different aspects of 
reading ability: whereas phonological decoding was associated with the GMV in 
the left superior parietal lobe extending to the supramarginal gyrus, form-sound 
association was predicted by the GMV in the hippocampus and cerebellum. Naming 
speed was associated with GMV in distributed brain regions in the occipital, 
temporal, parietal, and frontal cortices. Phonological decoding and form-sound 
association were uncorrelated with general cognitive abilities. However, naming 
speed was correlated with intelligence and processing speed, and some of the 
regions that were predictive of naming speed also predicted these general 
cognitive abilities. These results provide further insights on the cognitive and 
neural architecture of reading and the structural basis of individual 
differences in reading abilities.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0449-13.2013
PMCID: PMC3728691
PMID: 23904618 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


980. Child Neuropsychol. 2013 Sep;19(5):449-65. doi: 10.1080/09297049.2012.690372. 
Epub 2012 Jun 14.

Psychomotor and cognitive impairments of children with CHARGE syndrome: common 
and variable features.

Lasserre E(1), Vaivre-Douret L, Abadie V.

Author information:
(1)Centre Robert Laplane, Paris, France.

OBJECTIVE: We aimed to understand the mechanisms and sources of learning 
difficulties in children with CHARGE syndrome who attend school and to determine 
any specific developmental characteristics.
METHOD: We analyzed the psychomotor and cognitive functions of eight children 
from 7 to 13 years old with classical CHARGE syndrome by using the Wechsler 
Intelligence Scale for Children (WISC), the Neuropsychomotor test (NP-MOT), and 
several subtests of the Developmental neuropsychological assessment (NEPSY) and 
Kaufman Assessment Battery for Children (K-ABC) instruments.
RESULTS: The IQ range was from 54 to 92. The main weaknesses related to three 
domains: static and dynamic postural control, visuospatio-constructive 
abilities, and both sequential processing and selective attention. The main 
strengths were in holistic perception, semantic competencies, logical reasoning 
and planning skills, with axial and peripheral hypotonia. The extent of 
psychomotor and cognitive deficits was not associated with severity of sensorial 
deficiencies. We discuss the multiple causal mechanisms of psychomotor and 
cognitive difficulties.
CONCLUSION: We found a persistent and homogeneous psychomotor profile and 
specific cognitive difficulties in 8 children with CHARGE syndrome despite their 
large range of IQs. Highlighting these specific impairments is important to 
understand the nature and mechanisms of CHARGE for adapting educational and 
rehabilitation methods. These problems may be explained by sensory deficits, as 
well as dysfunction in integrating and/or regulatory regions of the brain.

DOI: 10.1080/09297049.2012.690372
PMID: 23906312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


981. Psychol Res. 2014 Jul;78(4):549-56. doi: 10.1007/s00426-013-0505-9. Epub 2013 
Aug 2.

The impact of finger counting habits on arithmetic in adults and children.

Newman SD(1), Soylu F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences, Indiana University, 
Bloomington, IN, 47405, USA, sdnewman@indiana.edu.

Here, we explored the impact of finger counting habits on arithmetic in both 
adults and children. Two groups of participants were examined, those that begin 
counting with their left hand (left-starters) and those that begin counting with 
their right hand (right-starters). For the adults, performance on an addition 
task in which participants added 2 two-digit numbers was compared. The results 
revealed that left-starters were slower than right-starters when adding and they 
had lower forward and backward digit-span scores. The children (aged 5-12) 
showed similar results on a single-digit timed addition task-right-starters 
outperformed left-starters. However, the children did not reveal differences in 
working memory or verbal and non-verbal intelligence as a function of finger 
counting habit. We argue that the motor act of finger counting influences how 
number is represented and suggest that left-starters may have a more bilateral 
representation that accounts for the slower processing.

DOI: 10.1007/s00426-013-0505-9
PMID: 23907537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


982. Diagn Cytopathol. 2014 Mar;42(3):218-24. doi: 10.1002/dc.23026. Epub 2013 Aug 1.

Artificial neural network in breast lesions from fine-needle aspiration cytology 
smear.

Subbaiah RM(1), Dey P, Nijhawan R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and 
Research, Chandigarh, India.

Artificial neural networks (ANNs) are applied in engineering and certain medical 
fields. ANN has immense potential and is rarely been used in breast lesions. In 
this present study, we attempted to build up a complete robust back propagation 
ANN model based on cytomorphological data, morphometric data, nuclear 
densitometric data, and gray level co-occurrence matrix (GLCM) of ductal 
carcinoma and fibroadenomas of breast cases diagnosed on fine-needle aspiration 
cytology (FNAC). We selected 52 cases of fibroadenomas and 60 cases of 
infiltrating ductal carcinoma of breast diagnosed on FNAC by two cytologists. 
Essential cytological data was quantitated by two independent cytologists (SRM, 
PD). With the help of Image J software, nuclear morphomeric, densitometric, and 
GLCM features were measured in all the cases on hematoxylin and eosin-stained 
smears. With the available data, an ANN model was built up with the help of 
Neurointelligence software. The network was designed as 41-20-1 (41 input nodes, 
20 hidden nodes, 1 output node). The network was trained by the online back 
propagation algorithm and 500 iterations were done. Learning was adjusted after 
every iteration. ANN model correctly identified all cases of fibroadenomas and 
infiltrating carcinomas in the test set. This is one of the first successful 
composite ANN models of breast carcinomas. This basic model can be used to 
diagnose the gray zone area of the breast lesions on FNAC. We assume that this 
model may have far-reaching implications in future.

Copyright © 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/dc.23026
PMID: 23908018 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


983. J Magn Reson Imaging. 2013 Nov;38(5):1169-76. doi: 10.1002/jmri.24085. Epub 2013 
Mar 21.

Masters athletes exhibit larger regional brain volume and better cognitive 
performance than sedentary older adults.

Tseng BY(1), Uh J, Rossetti HC, Cullum CM, Diaz-Arrastia RF, Levine BD, Lu H, 
Zhang R.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Exercise and Environmental Medicine, Texas Health Presbyterian 
Hospital Dallas, Dallas, Texas, USA; Department of Internal Medicine-Cardiology, 
University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, Texas, USA.

PURPOSE: To investigate differences in the age-related decline in brain tissue 
concentration between Masters athletes and sedentary older adults.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Twelve Masters athletes (MA) (three females, age = 72.4 ± 
5.6 years, endurance training >15 years), 12 sedentary elderly (SE) similar in 
age and educational level (four females, age = 74.6 ± 4.3 years), and nine young 
controls (YC) (four females, age = 27.2 ± 3.6 years) participated. T1-weighted 
high-resolution (1 × 1 × 1mm(3) ) images were acquired. Voxel-based analysis was 
conducted to identify clusters showing tissue concentration differences with 
t-tests. Cognitive function was assessed using a standard clinical battery 
focused on executive function and memory.
RESULTS: Two MA and two SE were unable to complete the magnetic resonance 
imaging (MRI) study. Both SE and MA showed lower gray matter (GM) concentrations 
than YC in the superior, inferior and middle frontal gyrus, superior temporal 
gyrus, postcentral gyrus, and the cingulate gyrus (PFDR-corrected < 0.001) and 
lower white matter (WM) concentrations in the inferior frontal gyrus and 
precentral gyrus (PFDR-corrected < 0.005). Notably, MA showed higher GM and WM 
concentrations than SE in the subgyral, cuneus, and precuneus regions related to 
visuospatial function, motor control, and working memory (PFDR-corrected < 
0.005). After controlling for estimated intelligence, MA outperformed SE on 
tasks of letter (P < 0.01) and category (P < 0.05) fluency.
CONCLUSION: Life-long exercise may confer benefits to some aspects of executive 
function and age-related brain tissue loss in the regions related to 
visuospatial function, motor control, and working memory in older adults.

Copyright © 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jmri.24085
PMCID: PMC3812419
PMID: 23908143 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


984. Nurs Stand. 2013 Jun 5-11;27(40):41-6. doi: 10.7748/ns2013.06.27.40.41.e7529.

Emotional intelligence and its role in recruitment of nursing students.

Lyon SR(1), Trotter F, Holt B, Powell E, Roe A.

Author information:
(1)University of Huddersfield, Huddersfield. s.r.lyon@hud.ac.uk

This article considers the concept of emotional intelligence and how it can be 
used in the recruitment and development of nursing students. The links between 
emotional intelligence and the qualities of compassion and caring are examined. 
The ethical difficulties surrounding the use of emotional intelligence tests are 
explored and the value of using a variety of recruitment methods is emphasised. 
The article suggests that emotional intelligence is an ability which may be 
developed through nurse education programmes, even if not fully present at 
interview. The contribution of service users to the recruitment of nursing 
students is examined, suggesting that they offer some important observations 
about interviewees. These observations may be more valid than the insights 
gained from the use of emotional intelligence tests.

DOI: 10.7748/ns2013.06.27.40.41.e7529
PMID: 23909180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


985. J Child Adolesc Psychiatr Nurs. 2013 Aug;26(3):204-13. doi: 10.1111/jcap.12048.

In praise of a doctor who welcomes the newborn infant person.

Trevarthen C(1).

Author information:
(1)Psychology Department, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK. 
c.trevarthen@ed.ac.uk

This article recalls how Dr. Berry Brazelton, in the past 50 years, has 
transformed pediatrics and childcare and supported parents' understanding of 
their young children. Berry's work as a pediatrician and basic research in the 
psychobiology of childbirth and infant communication and care have proved to be 
richly complementary. Brazelton and the author were fortunate to meet in the 
context of the wide exploration of human nature and adaptations of human 
intelligence for cooperative life encouraged by Jerome Bruner's vision of how 
cultural awareness of meaning may be generated in affectionate relations from 
infancy. This opened a new awareness of the adaptations of the human mind for 
sharing the creation of a meaningful world by exploring playful imagination with 
companions.

© 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/jcap.12048
PMID: 23909943 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


986. J Pediatr. 2013 Nov;163(5):1479-83.e1. doi: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2013.06.038. Epub 
2013 Aug 1.

Cognitive features that distinguish preschool-age children with 
neurofibromatosis type 1 from their peers: a matched case-control study.

Lorenzo J(1), Barton B, Arnold SS, North KN.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Neuroscience and Muscle Research, The Children's Hospital at 
Westmead, New South Wales, Australia; Discipline of Pediatrics and Child Health, 
Faculty of Medicine, University of Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.

OBJECTIVE: To examine the cognitive functioning of 40-month-old children with 
neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1).
STUDY DESIGN: In this case-control study, 43 children with NF1 and 43 comparison 
children (matched by age, sex, and maternal years of education) were assessed 
using the Wechsler Preschool and Primary Scale of Intelligence, Third Edition. 
Language, visual perception, preliteracy, and executive functioning were also 
examined. Parents completed questionnaires about their child's behavior. Group 
differences were examined using the paired-samples t test or the related 
Wilcoxon signed rank test. Conditional logistic regression was conducted to 
identify which cognitive variables predicted group membership (ie, NF1 or 
control).
RESULTS: The NF1 group had significantly poorer general intelligence than 
matched comparisons. Preschool-age children with NF1 had significantly poorer 
language, visual perception, response inhibition, and preliteracy skills than 
comparison children. The Wechsler Preschool and Primary Scale of Intelligence, 
Third Edition, Object Assembly and Information subtests were significant 
predictors of group membership. Parent ratings indicated no group differences in 
behavior.
CONCLUSIONS: After accounting for potentially confounding variables of age, sex, 
and maternal years of education, young children with NF1 have significantly 
poorer intellectual functioning, expressive language, and visual perception. 
These cognitive features that distinguish young children with NF1 from healthy 
peers can be detected in the preschool age group and are likely to impact on 
learning and performance during early school years. These areas should be 
targeted for intervention to maximize the developmental outcomes of young 
children with NF1.

Copyright © 2013 Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2013.06.038
PMID: 23910685 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


987. J Pediatr. 2013 Dec;163(6):1564-1569.e2. doi: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2013.06.032. Epub 
2013 Jul 30.

Preterm infant linear growth and adiposity gain: trade-offs for later weight 
status and intelligence quotient.

Belfort MB(1), Gillman MW, Buka SL, Casey PH, McCormick MC.

Author information:
(1)Division of Newborn Medicine, Boston Children's Hospital, Boston, MA. 
Electronic address: mandy.belfort@childrens.harvard.edu.

Comment in
    J Pediatr. 2013 Dec;163(6):1543-5.

OBJECTIVE: To examine trade-offs between cognitive outcome and 
overweight/obesity in preterm-born infants at school age and young adulthood in 
relation to weight gain and linear growth during infancy.
STUDY DESIGN: We studied 945 participants in the Infant Health and Development 
Program, an 8-center study of preterm (≤37 weeks gestational age), low birth 
weight (≤2500 g) infants from birth to age 18 years. Adjusting for maternal and 
child factors in logistic regression, we estimated the odds of 
overweight/obesity (body mass index [BMI] ≥85th percentile at age 8 or ≥25 
kg/m(2) at age 18) and in separate models, low IQ (<85) per z-score changes in 
infant length and BMI from term to 4 months, from 4 to 12 months, and from 12 to 
18 months.
RESULTS: More rapid linear growth from term to 4 months was associated with 
lower odds of IQ <85 at age 8 years (OR, 0.82; 95% CI, 0.70-0.96), but higher 
odds of overweight/obesity (OR, 1.27; 95% CI, 1.05-1.53). More rapid BMI gain in 
all 3 infant time intervals was also associated with higher odds of 
overweight/obesity, and BMI gain from 4-12 months was associated with lower odds 
of IQ <85 at age 8. Results at age 18 were similar.
CONCLUSION: In these preterm, low birth weight infants born in the 1980s, faster 
linear growth soon after term was associated with better cognition, but also 
with a greater risk of overweight/obesity at age 8 years and 18 years. BMI gain 
over the entire 18 months after term was associated with later risk of 
overweight/obesity, with less evidence of a benefit for IQ.

Copyright © 2013 Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2013.06.032
PMCID: PMC3834090
PMID: 23910982 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


988. Nat Chem Biol. 2013 Oct;9(10):623-9. doi: 10.1038/nchembio.1312. Epub 2013 Aug 
4.

Molecular assembly of the aerolysin pore reveals a swirling membrane-insertion 
mechanism.

Degiacomi MT(1), Iacovache I, Pernot L, Chami M, Kudryashev M, Stahlberg H, van 
der Goot FG, Dal Peraro M.

Author information:
(1)1] Institute of Bioengineering, School of Life Sciences, Ecole Polytechnique 
Fédérale de Lausanne, Lausanne, Switzerland. [2] [3].

Aerolysin is the founding member of a superfamily of β-pore-forming toxins whose 
pore structure is unknown. We have combined X-ray crystallography, cryo-EM, 
molecular dynamics and computational modeling to determine the structures of 
aerolysin mutants in their monomeric and heptameric forms, trapped at various 
stages of the pore formation process. A dynamic modeling approach based on swarm 
intelligence was applied, whereby the intrinsic flexibility of aerolysin 
extracted from new X-ray structures was used to fully exploit the cryo-EM 
spatial restraints. Using this integrated strategy, we obtained a radically new 
arrangement of the prepore conformation and a near-atomistic structure of the 
aerolysin pore, which is fully consistent with all of the biochemical data 
available so far. Upon transition from the prepore to pore, the aerolysin 
heptamer shows a unique concerted swirling movement, accompanied by a vertical 
collapse of the complex, ultimately leading to the insertion of a transmembrane 
β-barrel.

DOI: 10.1038/nchembio.1312
PMID: 23912165 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


989. IEEE Trans Cybern. 2014 Jun;44(6):843-56. doi: 10.1109/TCYB.2013.2273495. Epub 
2013 Jul 30.

KANTS: a stigmergic ant algorithm for cluster analysis and swarm art.

Fernandes CM, Mora AM, Merelo JJ, Rosa AC.

KANTS is a swarm intelligence clustering algorithm inspired by the behavior of 
social insects. It uses stigmergy as a strategy for clustering large datasets 
and, as a result, displays a typical behavior of complex systems: 
self-organization and global patterns emerging from the local interaction of 
simple units. This paper introduces a simplified version of KANTS and describes 
recent experiments with the algorithm in the context of a contemporary artistic 
and scientific trend called swarm art, a type of generative art in which swarm 
intelligence systems are used to create artwork or ornamental objects. KANTS is 
used here for generating color drawings from the input data that represent 
real-world phenomena, such as electroencephalogram sleep data. However, the main 
proposal of this paper is an art project based on well-known abstract paintings, 
from which the chromatic values are extracted and used as input. Colors and 
shapes are therefore reorganized by KANTS, which generates its own 
interpretation of the original artworks. The project won the 2012 Evolutionary 
Art, Design, and Creativity Competition.

DOI: 10.1109/TCYB.2013.2273495
PMID: 23912505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


990. Am J Med Genet A. 2013 Sep;161A(9):2216-25. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.a.36062. Epub 2013 
Aug 2.

Long-term follow-up of four patients with Langer-Giedion syndrome: clinical 
course and complications.

Schinzel A(1), Riegel M, Baumer A, Superti-Furga A, Moreira LM, Santo LD, 
Schiper PP, Carvalho JH, Giedion A.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Medical Genetics, Department of Pediatrics, University of 
Zürich, Zürich, Switzerland. schinzel@medgen.uzh.ch

Long-term observations of individuals with the so-called Langer-Giedion (LGS) or 
tricho-rhino-phalangeal type II (TRPS2) are scarce. We report here a on 
follow-up of four LGS individuals, including one first described by Andres 
Giedion in 1969, and review the sparse publications on adults with this syndrome 
which comprises ectodermal dysplasia, multiple cone-shaped epiphyses prior to 
puberty, multiple cartilaginous exostoses, and mostly mild intellectual 
impairment. LGS is caused by deletion of the chromosomal segment 8q24.11-q24.13 
containing among others the genes EXT1 and TRPS1. Most patients with TRPS2 are 
only borderline or mildly cognitively delayed, and few are of normal 
intelligence. Their practical skills are better than their intellectual 
capability, and, for this reason and because of their low self-esteem, they are 
often underestimated. Some patients develop seizures at variable age. Osteomas 
on processes of cervical vertebrae may cause pressure on cervical nerves or 
dissection of cerebral arteries. Joint stiffness is observed during childhood 
and changes later to joint laxity causing instability and proneness to trauma. 
Perthes disease is not rare. Almost all males become bald at or soon after 
puberty, and some develop (pseudo) gynecomastia. Growth hormone deficiency was 
found in a few patients, TSH deficiency so far only in one. Puberty and 
fertility are diminished, and no instance of transmission of the deletion from a 
non-mosaic parent to a child has been observed so far. Several affected females 
had vaginal atresia with consequent hydrometrocolpos.

© 2013 The Authors. American Journal of Medical Genetics Part A Published by 
Contributor-owned work.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.a.36062
PMID: 23913778 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


991. Hum Brain Mapp. 2014 May;35(5):1957-68. doi: 10.1002/hbm.22305. Epub 2013 Aug 2.

Subcortical regional morphology correlates with fluid and spatial intelligence.

Burgaleta M(1), MacDonald PA, Martínez K, Román FJ, Álvarez-Linera J, Ramos 
González A, Karama S, Colom R.

Author information:
(1)Center for Brain and Cognition, Universitat Pompeu Fabra, Barcelona, Spain; 
Facultad de Psicología, Universidad Autónoma de Madrid, Madrid, Spain; Fundación 
CIEN-Fundación Reina Sofía, Madrid, Spain.

Neuroimaging studies have revealed associations between intelligence and brain 
morphology. However, researchers have focused primarily on the anatomical 
features of the cerebral cortex, whereas subcortical structures, such as the 
basal ganglia (BG), have often been neglected despite extensive functional 
evidence on their relation with higher-order cognition. Here we performed shape 
analyses to understand how individual differences in BG local morphology account 
for variability in cognitive performance. Structural MRI was acquired in 104 
young adults (45 men, 59 women, mean age = 19.83, SD = 1.64), and the outer 
surface of striatal structures (caudate, nucleus accumbens, and putamen), globus 
pallidus, and thalamus was estimated for each subject and hemisphere. Further, 
nine cognitive tests were used to measure fluid (Gf), crystallized (Gc), and 
spatial intelligence (Gv). Latent scores for these factors were computed by 
means of confirmatory factor analysis and regressed vertex-wise against 
subcortical shape (local displacements of vertex position), controlling for age, 
sex, and adjusted for brain size. Significant results (FDR < 5%) were found for 
Gf and Gv, but not Gc, for the right striatal structures and thalamus. The main 
results show a relative enlargement of the rostral putamen, which is 
functionally connected to the right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and other 
intelligence-related prefrontal areas.

Copyright © 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/hbm.22305
PMCID: PMC6869737
PMID: 23913782 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


992. Coll Antropol. 2013 May;37 Suppl 2:9-18.

Anthropological analysis of taekwondo--new methodological approach.

Cular D(1), Munivrana G, Katić R.

Author information:
(1)University of Split, Faculty of Kinesiology, Split, Croatia.

The aim of this research is to determine the order and importance of impacts of 
particular anthropological characteristics and technical and tactical competence 
on success in taekwondo according to opinions of top taekwondo instructors 
(experts). Partial objectives include analysis of metric characteristics of the 
measuring instrument, and determining differences between two disciplines 
(sparring and technical discipline of patterns) and two competition systems (WTF 
and ITF). In accordance with the aims, the research was conducted on a sample of 
respondents which consisted of 730 taekwondo instructors from 6 continents and 
from 69 countries (from which we selected 242 instructors), who are at different 
success levels in both taekwondo competition systems (styles) and two taekwondo 
disciplines. The respondents were divided into 3 qualitative subsamples 
(OST-USP-VRH) using the dependant variable of accomplished results of the 
instructor. In 6 languages, they electronically evaluated the impact in 
percentage value (%) of motor and functional skills (MOTFS), morphological 
characteristics (MORF), psychological profile of an athlete (PSIH), athletic 
intelligence (INTE) and technical and tactical competence - (TE-TA) on success 
in taekwondo. The analysis of metric characteristics of the constructed 
instrument showed a satisfactory degree of agreement (IHr) which is proportional 
to the level of respondent quality, i.e. it grows along with the increase in 
instructor quality in all analysed disciplines of both systems. Top instructors 
assigned the highest portion of impact on success to the motor and functional 
skills (MOTFS) variable: WTF-SPB=29.1, ITF-SPB=29.2, WTF-THN=35.0, 
ITF-THN=32.0). Statistically significant differences in opinions of instructors 
of different styles and disciplines were not recorded in any of the analysed 
variables. The only exception is the psychological profile of an athlete 
variable, which WTF instructors of sparring (AM=23.7%), on a significance level 
of p<0.01, evaluate as having a statistically significantly higher impact on 
success in tackwondo than WTF instructors of the technical discipline of 
patterns (15.4%).

PMID: 23914483 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


993. Hist Psychol. 2014 Aug;17(3):206-22. doi: 10.1037/a0033339. Epub 2013 Aug 5.

Aims of teachers' psychometry: intelligence testing in Barcelona (1920).

Mülberger A(1), Balltondre M(1), Graus A(1).

Author information:
(1)CEHIC/Department Psicologia Bàsica, Facultat de Psicologia, Universitat 
Autònoma de Barcelona.

After World War I, members of the teaching profession in Spain were interested 
in appropriating psychological measurement and bringing it within the expertise 
of their occupational field, with the intention of upgrading their profession. 
As professionals devoted to the child, educators attempted to explore the 
infantile psyche using intelligence tests, with the intention of making 
scientific contributions to the field of psychology. In the present article we 
take as a key event one particular application enacted by a Catalan teacher, and 
insert that case study into the complex local scientific and educational 
context. It was a context in which the professional interests of teachers 
competed with those of school physicians, psychologists, and pedologists, at a 
time when important changes in pedagogical methods and school systems were under 
way. In the hand of teachers, intelligence testing was mainly seen as a 
malleable method on which to base daily educational practice on a more 
individualized and scientific basis. The historical analysis of the case turned 
out to be instrumental in the identification of common features and 
particularities attributable to specific local needs. In a society where public 
schooling competed with private schools, the results of mental testing were used 
to demonstrate publicly the excellent intellectual level of children attending a 
public graded primary school in Barcelona. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 
APA, all rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/a0033339
PMID: 23914847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


994. Psychol Assess. 2013 Dec;25(4):1255-72. doi: 10.1037/a0033903. Epub 2013 Aug 5.

Longitudinal assessment of trait emotional intelligence: measurement invariance 
and construct continuity from late childhood to adolescence.

Keefer KV(1), Holden RR, Parker JD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Queen's University.

Amid the growing efforts to promote positive youth development, trait emotional 
intelligence (TEI) has emerged as an important protective factor in the 
processes of resilience and adaptation. The inclusion of a brief form of the 
Emotional Quotient Inventory-Youth Version (EQi:YV-Brief) in the Canadian 
National Longitudinal Survey of Children and Youth (NLSCY) presents a unique 
opportunity to study the developmental dynamics of TEI during the transition 
from childhood to adolescence. However, before drawing any inferences about 
construct continuity and change, researchers must establish that the 
EQi:YV-Brief functions equivalently over time. This study tested configural, 
metric, scalar, and residual measurement invariance of the EQi:YV-Brief over a 
6-year period from late childhood (age 10-11) to adolescence (age 16-17). 
Longitudinal mean and covariance structures models were fitted to the data from 
773 NLSCY participants (51% girls) who completed the EQi:YV-Brief at 4 biennial 
cycles. Three of the 4 EQi:YV-Brief subscales were found to be fully invariant 
at ages 12-13 through 17-18 and partially invariant at age 10-11. Controlling 
for partial noninvariance, we also investigated patterns of rank-order stability 
and mean-level change in TEI. These exploratory analyses showed that individual 
differences in TEI became increasingly more stable with age and that changes in 
mean TEI levels followed a complex nonlinear pattern over time. The results 
supported the longitudinal utility of 3 of the 4 EQi:YV-Brief subscales used in 
the NLSCY, supporting their further use in research on the developmental 
dynamics of TEI.

(c) 2013 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/a0033903
PMID: 23914954 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


995. J Pers Soc Psychol. 2013 Oct;105(4):688-702. doi: 10.1037/a0033769. Epub 2013 
Aug 5.

Gender differences in implicit self-esteem following a romantic partner's 
success or failure.

Ratliff KA(1), Oishi S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Florida.

Erratum in
    J Pers Soc Psychol. 2013 Nov;105(5):889.

This research examined the influence of a romantic partner's success or failure 
on one's own implicit and explicit self-esteem. In Experiment 1, men had lower 
implicit self-esteem when their partner did well at a "social intelligence" task 
than when their partner did poorly. Women's implicit self-esteem was unaffected 
by partner performance. Experiments 2 and 3 showed that Dutch men's implicit 
self-esteem was negatively affected by their romantic partner's success. In 
Experiment 4, we replicated Experiments 1-3 in both the academic and social 
domains, and in Experiment 5, we demonstrated that men's implicit self-esteem is 
negatively influenced by thinking about a romantic partner's success both when 
the success is relative and when it is not. In sum, men's implicit self-esteem 
is lower when a partner succeeds than when a partner fails, whereas women's 
implicit self-esteem is not. These gender differences have important 
implications for understanding social comparison in romantic relationships.

DOI: 10.1037/a0033769
PMID: 23915040 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


996. Investig Genet. 2013 Aug 6;4(1):16. doi: 10.1186/2041-2223-4-16.

Fully integrated, fully automated generation of short tandem repeat profiles.

Tan E(1), Turingan RS, Hogan C, Vasantgadkar S, Palombo L, Schumm JW, Selden RF.

Author information:
(1)NetBio, 830 Winter Street, Waltham, MA 02451, USA. richard.selden@netbio.com.

BACKGROUND: The generation of short tandem repeat profiles, also referred to as 
'DNA typing,' is not currently performed outside the laboratory because the 
process requires highly skilled technical operators and a controlled laboratory 
environment and infrastructure with several specialized instruments. The goal of 
this work was to develop a fully integrated system for the automated generation 
of short tandem repeat profiles from buccal swab samples, to improve forensic 
laboratory process flow as well as to enable short tandem repeat profile 
generation to be performed in police stations and in field-forward military, 
intelligence, and homeland security settings.
RESULTS: An integrated system was developed consisting of an injection-molded 
microfluidic BioChipSet cassette, a ruggedized instrument, and expert system 
software. For each of five buccal swabs, the system purifies DNA using 
guanidinium-based lysis and silica binding, amplifies 15 short tandem repeat 
loci and the amelogenin locus, electrophoretically separates the resulting 
amplicons, and generates a profile. No operator processing of the samples is 
required, and the time from swab insertion to profile generation is 84 minutes. 
All required reagents are contained within the BioChipSet cassette; these 
consist of a lyophilized polymerase chain reaction mix and liquids for 
purification and electrophoretic separation.Profiles obtained from fully 
automated runs demonstrate that the integrated system generates concordant short 
tandem repeat profiles. The system exhibits single-base resolution from 100 to 
greater than 500 bases, with inter-run precision with a standard deviation of 
±0.05 - 0.10 bases for most alleles. The reagents are stable for at least 6 
months at 22°C, and the instrument has been designed and tested to Military 
Standard 810F for shock and vibration ruggedization. A nontechnical user can 
operate the system within or outside the laboratory.
CONCLUSIONS: The integrated system represents the first generation of a turnkey 
approach to short tandem repeat profiling and has the potential for use in both 
the field (for example, police booking stations, the battlefield, borders and 
ports) and the forensic laboratory.

DOI: 10.1186/2041-2223-4-16
PMCID: PMC3751157
PMID: 23915594


997. Mol Genet Metab. 2013 Nov;110(3):201-12. doi: 10.1016/j.ymgme.2013.07.001. Epub 
2013 Jul 17.

Imaging-genetics in dyslexia: connecting risk genetic variants to brain 
neuroimaging and ultimately to reading impairments.

Eicher JD(1), Gruen JR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT 
06520, USA.

Dyslexia is a common pediatric disorder that affects 5-17% of schoolchildren in 
the United States. It is marked by unexpected difficulties in fluent reading 
despite adequate intelligence, opportunity, and instruction. Classically, 
neuropsychologists have studied dyslexia using a variety of neurocognitive 
batteries to gain insight into the specific deficits and impairments in affected 
children. Since dyslexia is a complex genetic trait with high heritability, 
analyses conditioned on performance on these neurocognitive batteries have been 
used to try to identify associated genes. This has led to some successes in 
identifying contributing genes, although much of the heritability remains 
unexplained. Additionally, the lack of relevant human brain tissue for analysis 
and the challenges of modeling a uniquely human trait in animals are barriers to 
advancing our knowledge of the underlying pathophysiology. In vivo imaging 
technologies, however, present new opportunities to examine dyslexia and reading 
skills in a clearly relevant context in human subjects. Recent investigations 
have started to integrate these imaging data with genetic data in attempts to 
gain a more complete and complex understanding of reading processes. In addition 
to bridging the gap from genetic risk variant to a discernible neuroimaging 
phenotype and ultimately to the clinical impairments in reading performance, the 
use of neuroimaging phenotypes will reveal novel risk genes and variants. In 
this article, we briefly discuss the genetic and imaging investigations and take 
an in-depth look at the recent imaging-genetics investigations of dyslexia.

© 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymgme.2013.07.001
PMCID: PMC3800223
PMID: 23916419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


998. Clinics (Sao Paulo). 2013 Jul;68(7):915-21. doi: 10.6061/clinics/2013(07)05.

Cognition, behavior and social competence of preterm low birth weight children 
at school age.

Fan RG(1), Portuguez MW, Nunes ML.

Author information:
(1)Division of Neurology/Neuropsychology, Hospital São Lucas, Porto Alegre, RS, 
Brazil.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to assess the cognitive and behavioral 
development of preterm and low birth weight newborns living in a disadvantageous 
socioeconomic environment at school age.
METHODS: This cross-sectional study included children aged 6-7 from a historical 
birth cohort of preterm (gestational age <37 weeks) and low birth weight (<2,500 
g) infants. The Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children III (WISC-III) was 
administered by a psychologist while the parents completed the Child Behavior 
Checklist. The results were compared to the test's reference. The perinatal 
information and follow-up data were collected from the hospital files. The 
demographic data were collected from the parents. The current performance was 
compared with the results from the Denver II and Bayley II tests, which were 
administered during the first years of life.
RESULTS: The total intelligence quotient varied from 70 to 140 (mean 98.7±15.8). 
The borderline intelligence quotient was observed in 9.3% of the children. The 
Child Behavior Checklist indicated a predominance of social competence problems 
(27.8%, CI 19.2 to 37.9) compared with behavioral problems (15.5%, CI 8.9 to 
24.2). Both the Child Behavior Checklist domains, such as schooling, social and 
attention problems, and the cognitive scores were significantly associated with 
maternal education and family income. The results of the Denver and Bayley tests 
were associated with the cognitive performance (p<0.001) and the Child Behavior 
Checklist social profile, including aggressive and externalizing behavior 
(p<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Our data suggest that even low-risk preterm newborns are at risk 
for developing disturbances in early school age, such as mild cognitive deficits 
and behavioral disorders. This risk might increase under unfavorable 
socioeconomic conditions.

DOI: 10.6061/clinics/2013(07)05
PMCID: PMC3714779
PMID: 23917653 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported.


999. Schizophr Res. 2013 Oct;150(1):144-50. doi: 10.1016/j.schres.2013.07.018. Epub 
2013 Aug 3.

The diminished interhemispheric connectivity correlates with negative symptoms 
and cognitive impairment in first-episode schizophrenia.

Mwansisya TE(1), Wang Z, Tao H, Zhang H, Hu A, Guo S, Liu Z.

Author information:
(1)Mental Health Institute of the Second Xiangya Hospital, Key Laboratory of 
Psychiatry and Mental Health of Hunan Province, Central South University, 
Changsha, Hunan 410011, China; College of Health Sciences, University of Dodoma, 
P.O Box 395, Dodoma, Tanzania.

BACKGROUND: Previous studies imply that interhemispheric disconnectivity plays a 
more important role on information processing in schizophrenia. However, the 
role of the aberrant interhemispheric connection in the pathophysiology of this 
disorder remains unclear. Recently, resting-state functional Magnetic Resonance 
Imaging (fMRI) has reported to have potentials of mapping functional 
interactions between pairs of brain hemispheres.
METHODS: Resting-state whole-brain functional connectivity analyses were 
performed on 41 schizophrenia patients and 33 healthy controls.
RESULTS: The first-episode schizophrenia patients showed significant aberrant 
interhemispheric connection in the globus pallidus, medial frontal gyrus and 
inferior temporal gyrus. The correlation of Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale 
scores with odds ratio of the aberrant interhemispheric connections revealed 
positive correlation in the pallidum (rho=0.335, p=.003) and medial frontal 
gyrus (rho=0.260, p=.025). The connection in the pallidum was also positively 
correlated with duration of illness (rho=-0.407, p=.009). Whereas, the aberrant 
interhemispheric connection in the inferior temporal gyrus was positively 
correlated with scores of Scale for the Assessment of Negative Symptoms 
(rho=0.393, p=.012).
CONCLUSION: The present study provides fMRI evidence for the aberrant 
interhemispheric resting-state functional connectivity within resting-state 
networks in first-episode schizophrenia patients. These aberrant 
interhemispheric connections, in particular the pallidum, due to its anatomical 
and functional connectivities, may be the primary disturbance for cognitive 
impairment, negative symptoms and chronicity of schizophrenia.

© 2013.

DOI: 10.1016/j.schres.2013.07.018
PMID: 23920057 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1000. Stud Health Technol Inform. 2013;187:3-12.

From intensive care monitoring to personal health monitoring to ambient 
intelligence.

Rienhoff O(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Medical Informatics, Göttingen University Medical Center.

The historical roots of IT-based monitoring in health care are described. Since 
the 1970ies monitoring has been spreading to more and more domains of health 
care and public health. Today one can observe monitoring of persons in many 
environments and regarding widely different questions. While these monitoring 
applications have been introduced ethical questions have been raised to balance 
the possible positive and negative outcomes of the approaches. Today 
IT-technology is entering many parts of our life - IT eventually became what had 
been coined already in the last century by IBM as "electronic dust" which one 
can find in every part of our environment. As most of these "dust-particles" are 
able to observe something one can also understand this development as a 
development into ubiquitous monitoring of nearly everything at any time. The 
foreseen ambient intelligence worlds are also spaces of ambient monitoring. This 
article describes this historical development. It emphasizes why ethical and 
data protection questions are an absolute must in most IT activities today.

PMID: 23920451 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1001. Stud Health Technol Inform. 2013;192:142-6.

An ontological approach for the exploitation of clinical data.

Assélé Kama A(1), Choquet R, Mels G, Daniel C, Charlet J, Jaulent MC.

Author information:
(1)INSERM UMR_S 872 Eq 20, Université Pierre et Marie Curie, Paris, France.

Clinical data captured in hospital information systems may be unusable in their 
original format due to missing information or knowledge. The use of external 
resources (e.g. domain ontology) could be a way of dealing with this lack of 
knowledge. Our study thus aimed to develop a framework allowing a user to 
perform medical queries in the context of infectious diseases. By creating an 
interaction between a knowledge source and clinical data, using semantic and 
semantic web tools and methods, the users are able to perform queries on a 
database to obtain results about antibiotic resistance. This work has been 
performed in the context of the DebugIT European project that aims to control 
and monitor the antibioresistance growth via a semantic interoperability 
platform. The results obtained by the use of different semantic web tools were 
quantitatively evaluated by comparison of the number of results and the query 
execution time. We have compared our approach with classic business intelligence 
approaches in terms of usability and functionality.

PMID: 23920532 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1002. Pers Soc Psychol Rev. 2013 Nov;17(4):325-54. doi: 10.1177/1088868313497266. Epub 
2013 Aug 6.

The relation between intelligence and religiosity: a meta-analysis and some 
proposed explanations.

Zuckerman M(1), Silberman J, Hall JA.

Author information:
(1)1University of Rochester, NY, USA.

A meta-analysis of 63 studies showed a significant negative association between 
intelligence and religiosity. The association was stronger for college students 
and the general population than for participants younger than college age; it 
was also stronger for religious beliefs than religious behavior. For college 
students and the general population, means of weighted and unweighted 
correlations between intelligence and the strength of religious beliefs ranged 
from -.20 to -.25 (mean r = -.24). Three possible interpretations were 
discussed. First, intelligent people are less likely to conform and, thus, are 
more likely to resist religious dogma. Second, intelligent people tend to adopt 
an analytic (as opposed to intuitive) thinking style, which has been shown to 
undermine religious beliefs. Third, several functions of religiosity, including 
compensatory control, self-regulation, self-enhancement, and secure attachment, 
are also conferred by intelligence. Intelligent people may therefore have less 
need for religious beliefs and practices.

DOI: 10.1177/1088868313497266
PMID: 23921675 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1003. PLoS One. 2013 Jul 29;8(7):e69820. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0069820. Print 
2013.

Presence and significant determinants of cognitive impairment in a large sample 
of patients with multiple sclerosis.

Borghi M(1), Cavallo M, Carletto S, Ostacoli L, Zuffranieri M, Picci RL, 
Scavelli F, Johnston H, Furlan PM, Bertolotto A, Malucchi S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Mental Health, San Luigi Gonzaga Hospital Medical School, 
University of Turin, ASL TO3, Orbassano, Italy.

OBJECTIVES: To investigate the presence and the nature of cognitive impairment 
in a large sample of patients with Multiple Sclerosis (MS), and to identify 
clinical and demographic determinants of cognitive impairment in MS.
METHODS: 303 patients with MS and 279 healthy controls were administered the 
Brief Repeatable Battery of Neuropsychological tests (BRB-N); measures of 
pre-morbid verbal competence and neuropsychiatric measures were also 
administered.
RESULTS: Patients and healthy controls were matched for age, gender, education 
and pre-morbid verbal Intelligence Quotient. Patients presenting with cognitive 
impairment were 108/303 (35.6%). In the overall group of participants, the 
significant predictors of the most sensitive BRB-N scores were: presence of MS, 
age, education, and Vocabulary. The significant predictors when considering MS 
patients only were: course of MS, age, education, vocabulary, and depression. 
Using logistic regression analyses, significant determinants of the presence of 
cognitive impairment in relapsing-remitting MS patients were: duration of 
illness (OR = 1.053, 95% CI = 1.010-1.097, p = 0.015), Expanded Disability 
Status Scale score (OR = 1.247, 95% CI = 1.024-1.517, p = 0.028), and vocabulary 
(OR = 0.960, 95% CI = 0.936-0.984, p = 0.001), while in the smaller group of 
progressive MS patients these predictors did not play a significant role in 
determining the cognitive outcome.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results corroborate the evidence about the presence and the 
nature of cognitive impairment in a large sample of patients with MS. 
Furthermore, our findings identify significant clinical and demographic 
determinants of cognitive impairment in a large sample of MS patients for the 
first time. Implications for further research and clinical practice were 
discussed.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0069820
PMCID: PMC3726772
PMID: 23922813 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


1004. Eur J Sport Sci. 2014;14(5):403-9. doi: 10.1080/17461391.2013.825645. Epub 2013 
Aug 7.

Tactical proficiency among table tennis players with and without intellectual 
disabilities.

Van Biesen D(1), Mactavish J, Vanlandewijck Y.

Author information:
(1)a Department of Rehabilitation Sciences , KU Leuven , Leuven , Belgium.

The effect of intellectual impairment on sports performance has received limited 
attention by researchers. As a contribution to closing this gap, the purpose of 
the present investigation was to examine the differences in tactical proficiency 
between table tennis players with and without intellectual disabilities (ID). 
These groups were matched for training-volume and experience and consisted of 41 
male (age = 27±8) and 30 female (age= 28±8) elite players with ID and a 
reference group of 12 male (age= 24±12) and 5 female (age= 20±9) players without 
ID. In two different test settings - one a World Championship and the other a 
training camp - the players in each group performed 60 semi-standardised rallies 
against the same opponent. Players were told that 12 sets of five identical 
services would be delivered, and their goal was to return the service with the 
intention of 'winning the point'. The test results were validated for this 
study, to compute tactical proficiency scores (maximal score of eight points) 
for each player. A two-way Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) revealed significantly 
lower proficiency scores for players with ID than for those without ID. 
Repeated-measures ANOVA revealed that within each series of five rallies, 
starting with identical services, all participants were able to significantly 
improve their tactical proficiency gradually, but players without ID scored 
4.3±0.5 from the first ball on, and while athletes with ID only 3.3±0.7 after 
five balls. The results of this study indicate that ID is associated with 
decreased tactical proficiency in table tennis.

DOI: 10.1080/17461391.2013.825645
PMID: 23923980 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1005. Ergonomics. 2014;57(3):374-86. doi: 10.1080/00140139.2013.822566. Epub 2013 Aug 
7.

Similarities and differences of emotions in human-machine and human-human 
interactions: what kind of emotions are relevant for future companion systems?

Walter S(1), Wendt C, Böhnke J, Crawcour S, Tan JW, Chan A, Limbrecht K, Gruss 
S, Traue HC.

Author information:
(1)a Medical Psychology , Ulm University , Ulm , Germany.

Cognitive-technical intelligence is envisioned to be constantly available and 
capable of adapting to the user's emotions. However, the question is: what 
specific emotions should be reliably recognised by intelligent systems? Hence, 
in this study, we have attempted to identify similarities and differences of 
emotions between human-human (HHI) and human-machine interactions (HMI). We 
focused on what emotions in the experienced scenarios of HMI are retroactively 
reflected as compared with HHI. The sample consisted of N = 145 participants, 
who were divided into two groups. Positive and negative scenario descriptions of 
HMI and HHI were given by the first and second groups, respectively. 
Subsequently, the participants evaluated their respective scenarios with the 
help of 94 adjectives relating to emotions. The correlations between the 
occurrences of emotions in the HMI versus HHI were very high. The results do not 
support the statement that only a few emotions in HMI are relevant.

DOI: 10.1080/00140139.2013.822566
PMID: 23924061 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1006. Am J Public Health. 2013 Oct;103 Suppl 1(Suppl 1):S136-44. doi: 
10.2105/AJPH.2012.301141. Epub 2013 Aug 8.

Assessment of genetic and nongenetic interactions for the prediction of 
depressive symptomatology: an analysis of the Wisconsin Longitudinal Study using 
machine learning algorithms.

Roetker NS(1), Page CD, Yonker JA, Chang V, Roan CL, Herd P, Hauser TS, Hauser 
RM, Atwood CS.

Author information:
(1)Nicholas S. Roetker, James A. Yonker, Vicky Chang, Carol L. Roan, Pamela 
Herd, Taissa S. Hauser, and Robert M. Hauser are with the Department of 
Sociology, University of Wisconsin-Madison. Pamela Herd is also with La Follete 
School of Public Affairs, University of Wisconsin-Madison. C. David Page is with 
the Department of Biostatistics and Medical Informatics, University of 
Wisconsin-Madison. Craig S. Atwood is with the Geriatric Research, Education and 
Clinical Center, William S. Middleton Memorial Veterans Hospital, Madison, WI, 
and the Department of Medicine, University of Wisconsin-Madison School of 
Medicine and Public Health.

OBJECTIVES: We examined depression within a multidimensional framework 
consisting of genetic, environmental, and sociobehavioral factors and, using 
machine learning algorithms, explored interactions among these factors that 
might better explain the etiology of depressive symptoms.
METHODS: We measured current depressive symptoms using the Center for 
Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale (n = 6378 participants in the Wisconsin 
Longitudinal Study). Genetic factors were 78 single nucleotide polymorphisms 
(SNPs); environmental factors-13 stressful life events (SLEs), plus a composite 
proportion of SLEs index; and sociobehavioral factors-18 personality, 
intelligence, and other health or behavioral measures. We performed traditional 
SNP associations via logistic regression likelihood ratio testing and explored 
interactions with support vector machines and Bayesian networks.
RESULTS: After correction for multiple testing, we found no significant single 
genotypic associations with depressive symptoms. Machine learning algorithms 
showed no evidence of interactions. Naïve Bayes produced the best models in both 
subsets and included only environmental and sociobehavioral factors.
CONCLUSIONS: We found no single or interactive associations with genetic factors 
and depressive symptoms. Various environmental and sociobehavioral factors were 
more predictive of depressive symptoms, yet their impacts were independent of 
one another. A genome-wide analysis of genetic alterations using machine 
learning methodologies will provide a framework for identifying 
genetic-environmental-sociobehavioral interactions in depressive symptoms.

DOI: 10.2105/AJPH.2012.301141
PMCID: PMC3786749
PMID: 23927508 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1007. BMC Int Health Hum Rights. 2013 Aug 9;13:34. doi: 10.1186/1472-698X-13-34.

Measuring governance at health facility level: developing and validation of 
simple governance tool in Zambia.

Mutale W(1), Mwanamwenge MT, Balabanova D, Spicer N, Ayles H.

Author information:
(1)Department of community Medicine, University of Zambia School of Medicine, 
Lusaka, Zambia. wmutale@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND: Governance has been cited as a key determinant of economic growth, 
social advancement and overall development. Achievement of millennium 
development goals is partly dependant on governance practices. In 2007, Health 
Systems 20/20 conducted an Internet-based survey on the practice of good 
governance. The survey posed a set of good practices related to health 
governance and asked respondents to indicate whether their experience confirmed 
or disconfirmed those practices. We applied the 17 governance statements in 
rural health facilities of Zambia. The aim was to establish whether the 
statements were reliable and valid for assessing governance practices at primary 
care level.
METHODS: Both quantitative and qualitative methods were used. We first applied 
the governance statements developed by the health system 20/20 and then 
conducted focus group discussion and In-depth interviews to explore some 
elements of governance including accountability and community participation. The 
target respondents were the health facility management team and community 
members. The sample size include 42 health facilities. Data was analyzed using 
SPSS version 17 and Nvivo version 9.
RESULTS: The 95% one-sided confidence interval for Cronbach's alpha was between 
0.69 and 0.74 for the 16 items.The mean score for most of the items was above 3. 
Factor analysis yielded five principle components: Transparency, community 
participation, Intelligence & vision, Accountability and Regulation & oversight. 
Most of the items (6) clustered around the transparency latent factor. Chongwe 
district performed poorly in overall mean governance score and across the five 
domains of governance. The overall scores in Chongwe ranged between 51 and 94% 
with the mean of 80%. Kafue and Luangwa districts had similar overall mean 
governance scores (88%). Community participation was generally low. Generally, 
it was noted that community members lacked capacity to hold health workers 
accountable for drugs and medical supplies.
CONCLUSIONS: The study successfully validated and applied the new tool for 
evaluating health system governance at health facility level. The results have 
shown that it is feasible to measure governance practices at health facility 
level and that the adapted tool is fairly reliable with the 95% one-sided 
confidence interval for Cronbach's alpha laying between 0.69 and 0.74 for the 16 
items. Caution should be taken when interpreting overall scores as they tended 
to mask domain specific variations.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-698X-13-34
PMCID: PMC3750565
PMID: 23927531 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1008. J Theor Biol. 2013 Nov 7;336:173-84. doi: 10.1016/j.jtbi.2013.07.015. Epub 2013 
Aug 6.

On the spatial dynamics and oscillatory behavior of a predator-prey model based 
on cellular automata and local particle swarm optimization.

Molina MM(1), Moreno-Armendáriz MA, Carlos Seck Tuoh Mora J.

Author information:
(1)Instituto Politécnico Nacional, Centro de Investigación en Computación, Av. 
Juan de Dios Batíz s/n Unidad Profesional Adolfo López Mateos, Col. Nueva 
Industrial Vallejo, Distrito Federal, 07738 México, Mexico. Electronic address: 
mmartinezm0201@ipn.mx.

A two-dimensional lattice model based on Cellular Automata theory and swarm 
intelligence is used to study the spatial and population dynamics of a 
theoretical ecosystem. It is found that the social interactions among predators 
provoke the formation of clusters, and that by increasing the mobility of 
predators the model enters into an oscillatory behavior.

© 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtbi.2013.07.015
PMID: 23927834 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1009. J Formos Med Assoc. 2013 Jul;112(7):396-405. doi: 10.1016/j.jfma.2011.08.022. 
Epub 2012 May 1.

ADHD-related symptoms, emotional/behavioral problems, and physical conditions in 
Taiwanese children with epilepsy.

Tsai FJ(1), Liu ST, Lee CM, Lee WT, Fan PC, Lin WS, Chiu YN, Gau SS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, National Taiwan University Hospital, Taipei, 
Taiwan.

BACKGROUND/PURPOSE: Little is known about whether Asian children with epilepsy 
have more attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)-related symptoms, 
emotional/ behavioral problems, and physical conditions compared with those 
described in Western studies. The authors investigated the rates of ADHD-related 
symptoms, emotional/behavioral problems, and physical conditions among pediatric 
patients with epilepsy.
METHODS: We recruited 61 patients with epilepsy, aged 6-16 years, and 122 age-, 
sex-, and parental education-matched school controls. Data on demographics, 
parental reports on the Child Behavior Checklist (CBCL) and Swanson, Nolan, and 
Pelham, version IV scale (SNAP-IV), and medical records were collected.
RESULTS: The average full-scale intelligence quotient of the case group was 
95.8. There were 11 (18.0%), 7 (11.5%), 26 (42.6%), and 26 (42.6%) of children 
with epilepsy ever clinically diagnosed with developmental delay, overt ADHD 
symptoms, allergies reported by physicians, and behavior problems measured by 
the CBCL, respectively. Those children with epilepsy had more severe 
ADHD-related symptoms and a wider range of emotional/behavioral problems than 
controls (Cohen's d 0.36-0.80). The rate of potential cases of ADHD among 
children with epilepsy was 24.6%. A history of developmental delay predicted 
ADHD- related symptoms and internalizing and externalizing problems. Among 
children with epilepsy, a longer duration of treatment with antiepileptic drugs 
predicted externalizing problems, and an earlier onset of epilepsy predicted 
inattention and hyperactivity/impulsivity.
CONCLUSION: Our findings imply that clinicians should assess physical and 
emotional/behavioral problems among children with epilepsy in order to provide 
interventions to offset possible adverse psychiatric outcomes.

Copyright © 2012. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jfma.2011.08.022
PMID: 23927979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1010. Mil Med. 2013 Aug;178(8):887-92. doi: 10.7205/MILMED-D-13-00039.

Origins of the physical profile.

Marble S(1).

Author information:
(1)Office of Medical History, U.S. Army, HQ MEDCOM, MCMH-HO, Fort Sam Houston, 
TX 78234-6028, USA.

This article examines how the U.S. Army came to adopt the physical profile. In 
1945, the Army adopted the physical profile system that has, with some changes, 
survived to this day. Although the profile system does not always work smoothly, 
it replaced a system that was failing completely to deliver physically fit men 
to combat units. The World War II problems were the outgrowth of two World War I 
systems that had been adopted to speed mobilization by (1) accepting physically 
substandard men and (2) matching men to a noncombat job by their skills. By 
simply identifying a soldier as "General Service" or "Limited Service" it did 
not provide enough information about his limitations. In addition, the Army used 
an intelligence test to grade manpower, but because it lacked information on a 
man's physical abilities/limitations, that data were misused to allot manpower. 
These policies interacted with a societal disdain for the "handicapped" and 
"substandard" and made it hard to use Limited Service men. Adding detail to the 
information on physical abilities was the Army's solution.

Reprint & Copyright © 2013 Association of Military Surgeons of the U.S.

DOI: 10.7205/MILMED-D-13-00039
PMID: 23929050 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1011. Science. 2013 Aug 9;341(6146):647-51. doi: 10.1126/science.1240466.

Social influence bias: a randomized experiment.

Muchnik L(1), Aral S, Taylor SJ.

Author information:
(1)School of Business Administration, The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Mount 
Scopus, Jerusalem, 91905 Israel.

Comment in
    Science. 2013 Dec 13;342(6164):1315.
    Science. 2013 Dec 13;342(6164):1315-6.

Our society is increasingly relying on the digitized, aggregated opinions of 
others to make decisions. We therefore designed and analyzed a large-scale 
randomized experiment on a social news aggregation Web site to investigate 
whether knowledge of such aggregates distorts decision-making. Prior ratings 
created significant bias in individual rating behavior, and positive and 
negative social influences created asymmetric herding effects. Whereas negative 
social influence inspired users to correct manipulated ratings, positive social 
influence increased the likelihood of positive ratings by 32% and created 
accumulating positive herding that increased final ratings by 25% on average. 
This positive herding was topic-dependent and affected by whether individuals 
were viewing the opinions of friends or enemies. A mixture of changing opinion 
and greater turnout under both manipulations together with a natural tendency to 
up-vote on the site combined to create the herding effects. Such findings will 
help interpret collective judgment accurately and avoid social influence bias in 
collective intelligence in the future.

DOI: 10.1126/science.1240466
PMID: 23929980 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1012. Fa Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2013 Apr;29(2):116-9.

[Forensic psychiatric cases of 534 mental disorders caused by traumatic brain 
injury].

[Article in Chinese]

Li T(1), Li GR, Jiang HX, Tang CD, Tang JL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Forensic Medicine, Kangci Hospital of Jiaxing, Jiaxing 314500, 
China. liting406@yahoo.com.cn

OBJECTIVE: To analyze the types of mental disorders caused by traumatic brain 
injury and the optimal time for forensic psychiatric appraisal. To explore the 
relationship between the degree of traumatic brain injury, the time of appraisal 
and the grade of intellectual deficiency.
METHODS: Five hundred and thirty-four forensic psychiatric cases of mental 
disorders caused by traumatic brain injury were retrospectively analyzed.
RESULTS: In the types of mental disorders caused by traumatic brain injury, the 
most cases were diagnosed as organic mood disorders (51.1%), following organic 
neurosis-like syndrome (24.0%) and organic intellectual deficiency (18.0%). For 
the disability grades, the most cases were the level VIII and IX disability 
grades, 219 cases (41.0%) and 177 cases (33.1%), respectively. The degree of 
brain injury and the degree of intelligence defection according to WAIS-RC were 
higher in intellectual deficiency group compared with non-intellectual 
deficiency group (P < 0.05). The grade of disability correlated with the degree 
of brain injury, the result of WAIS-RC, the result of cerebral CT scanning, and 
the grade of brain electrical activity mapping (BEAM) abnormality (P < 0.05). 
Nevertheless, the degree of intellectual deficiency did not correlate with 
appraisal time and the degree of brain injury (P > 0.05).
CONCLUSION: The factors influencing intellectual deficiency are complex. The 
findings of objective examination including cerebral CT scanning, BEAM, WAIS-RC 
and others should be considered as important indexes for disability evaluation.

PMID: 23930505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1013. Res Q Exerc Sport. 2013 Jun;84(2):131-8. doi: 10.1080/02701367.2013.787345.

C. H. McCloy Lecture: symbols, conventions, games, Eleanor Metheny, and the 
evolution of human intelligence.

Kretchmar S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Kinesiology, The Pennsylvania State University, 268-K Rec 
Building, University Park, PA 16802, USA. rsk1@psu.edu

In this essay I argue that Eleanor Metheny was ahead of her time when she argued 
that nonverbal physical activities carry symbolic meanings and are, for that 
reason and others, intellectually impressive. I compare her theories on the 
symbolic process with something that might be called the "conventional process." 
I will show why conventional logic rather than symbolic reasoning tells us more 
about the way intelligence evolved and the potentially impressive role played by 
games in the advance of human civilization.

DOI: 10.1080/02701367.2013.787345
PMID: 23930538 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1014. Int J Qual Stud Health Well-being. 2013 Aug 7;8:20595. doi: 
10.3402/qhw.v8i0.20595.

Everyday music listening and affect regulation: the role of MP3 players.

Skånland MS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Musicology, University of Oslo, Norway. marie.s.skanland@nmh.no

The use of digital portable music devices such as MP3 players has rapidly 
increased during the last decade, and the sheer availability of music offered by 
such players raises questions about their impact on listeners' mental and 
physical health and well-being. This article explores MP3 player use as an 
everyday tactic for affect regulation, here understood as an individual's 
efforts to maintain or change the intensity or duration of a given affect. The 
ability to understand and regulate affects has significant health implications, 
and among the tactics relevant to such regulation, engagement with music has 
proven to be particularly successful. The material presented in this article is 
based on a qualitative interview study focused on MP3 player use as a medium for 
musical self-care. Because MP3 users can listen to whatever they want, whenever 
they want, and target their music in the interests of managing and regulating 
moods and emotions, the MP3 player represents a valuable and convenient 
technology of affect regulation.

DOI: 10.3402/qhw.v8i0.20595
PMCID: PMC3740499
PMID: 23930987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1015. J Intellect Disabil Res. 2015 Feb;59(2):125-37. doi: 10.1111/jir.12085. Epub 
2013 Aug 11.

Executive functioning in individuals with intellectual disabilities and autism 
spectrum disorders.

Roelofs RL(1), Visser EM, Berger HJ, Prins JB, Van Schrojenstein Lantman-De Valk 
HM, Teunisse JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Psychology, Radboud University Nijmegen Medical Centre, 
Nijmegen, The Netherlands; Centre of Excellence for Neuropsychiatry, Vincent van 
Gogh Institute for Psychiatry, Venray, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Executive functioning (EF) is important for adequate behavioural 
functioning and crucial for explaining symptoms of autism spectrum disorders 
(ASD) in individuals with normal intelligence, but is scarcely studied in 
individuals with ASD and intellectual disabilities (ID). We therefore study EF 
in an ID population by comparing performances on three frequently studied 
executive functions (shifting, inhibition and updating) between individuals with 
ASD and individuals without ASD. When studying ID populations, one should be 
aware of Spearman's Law of Diminishing Returns (SLODR), as it questions the 
possibility of measuring separate cognitive functions in ID populations.
METHODS: Six EF tasks were administered to 50 individuals with mild to 
borderline ID, of which half was diagnosed with ASD. In order to investigate the 
distinctness of the three executive functions in this ID sample, the results on 
the six EF tasks were subjected to principal components analysis (PCA). 
Subsequently, a multivariate analysis of variance (MANOVA) was performed to 
assess differences between the ASD and non-ASD group on shifting, inhibition and 
updating.
RESULTS: The PCA revealed the hypothesised EF trichotomy. MANOVA analysis showed 
no significant group differences on EF-performance.
CONCLUSIONS: Three separate executive functions were measured in this ID 
population, but despite much evidence that individuals with ASD display more 
behavioural problems and the proven relevance of EF in behavioural functioning, 
no significant group difference was found on shifting, inhibition or updating. 
After this first effort to achieve more insight into EF of individuals with ASD 
and ID the relation between behavioural problems and EF will require further 
study.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons Ltd, MENCAP & IASSID.

DOI: 10.1111/jir.12085
PMID: 23931579 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1016. Psychol Med. 2014 Jun;44(8):1751-64. doi: 10.1017/S0033291713001955. Epub 2013 
Aug 9.

Neural substrates of behavioral variability in attention deficit hyperactivity 
disorder: based on ex-Gaussian reaction time distribution and diffusion spectrum 
imaging tractography.

Lin HY(1), Gau SS(1), Huang-Gu SL(2), Shang CY(1), Wu YH(3), Tseng WY(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, National Taiwan University Hospital, Taipei, 
Taiwan.
(2)Graduate Institute of Behavioral Sciences and Department of Occupational 
Therapy, College of Medicine, Chang Gung University, Kwei-Shan, Tao-Yuan, 
Taiwan.
(3)School of Medicine, National Taiwan University College of Medicine, Taipei, 
Taiwan.
(4)Graduate Institute of Brain and Mind Sciences, National Taiwan University 
College of Medicine, Taipei, Taiwan.

BACKGROUND: Increased intra-individual variability (IIV) in reaction time (RT) 
across various tasks is one ubiquitous neuropsychological finding in attention 
deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). However, neurobiological underpinnings of 
IIV in individuals with ADHD have not yet been fully delineated. The ex-Gaussian 
distribution has been proved to capture IIV in RT. The authors explored the 
three parameters [μ (mu), σ (sigma), τ (tau)] of an ex-Gaussian RT distribution 
derived from the Conners' continuous performance test (CCPT) and their 
correlations with the microstructural integrity of the frontostriatal-caudate 
tracts and the cingulum bundles.
METHOD: We assessed 28 youths with ADHD (8-17 years; 25 males) and 28 age-, 
sex-, IQ- and handedness-matched typically developing (TD) youths using the 
CCPT, Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children, 3rd edition and magnetic 
resonance imaging (MRI). Microstructural integrity, indexed by generalized 
fractional anisotropy (GFA), was measured by diffusion spectrum imaging 
tractrography on a 3-T MRI system.
RESULTS: Youths with ADHD had larger σ (s.d. of Gaussian distribution) and τ 
(mean of exponential distribution) and reduced GFA in four bilateral 
frontostriatal tracts. With increased inter-stimulus intervals of CCPT, the 
magnitude of greater τ in ADHD than TD increased. In ADHD youths, the cingulum 
bundles and frontostriatal integrity were associated with three ex-Gaussian 
parameters and with μ (mean of Gaussian distribution) and τ, respectively; while 
only frontostriatal GFA was associated with μ and τ in TD youths.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest the crucial role of the integrity of the 
cingulum bundles in accounting for IIV in ADHD. Involvement of different brain 
systems in mediating IIV may relate to a distinctive pathophysiological 
processing and/or adaptive compensatory mechanism.

DOI: 10.1017/S0033291713001955
PMID: 23931705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1017. Comput Methods Programs Biomed. 2013 Oct;112(1):92-103. doi: 
10.1016/j.cmpb.2013.07.009. Epub 2013 Aug 7.

Design of fuzzy classifier for diabetes disease using Modified Artificial Bee 
Colony algorithm.

Beloufa F(1), Chikh MA.

Author information:
(1)Biomedical Engineering Laboratory, Tlemcen University, Algeria. Electronic 
address: beloufa.fayssal@gmail.com.

In this study, diagnosis of diabetes disease, which is one of the most important 
diseases, is conducted with artificial intelligence techniques. We have proposed 
a novel Artificial Bee Colony (ABC) algorithm in which a mutation operator is 
added to an Artificial Bee Colony for improving its performance. When the 
current best solution cannot be updated, a blended crossover operator (BLX-α) of 
genetic algorithm is applied, in order to enhance the diversity of ABC, without 
compromising with the solution quality. This modified version of ABC is used as 
a new tool to create and optimize automatically the membership functions and 
rules base directly from data. We take the diabetes dataset used in our work 
from the UCI machine learning repository. The performances of the proposed 
method are evaluated through classification rate, sensitivity and specificity 
values using 10-fold cross-validation method. The obtained classification rate 
of our method is 84.21% and it is very promising when compared with the previous 
research in the literature for the same problem.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cmpb.2013.07.009
PMID: 23932385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1018. J Pediatr Surg. 2013 Aug;48(8):1682-7. doi: 10.1016/j.jpedsurg.2013.01.021.

Early childhood outcomes of infants born with gastroschisis.

van Manen M(1), Hendson L, Wiley M, Evans M, Taghaddos S, Dinu I.

Author information:
(1)Division of Neonatal-Perinatal Medicine, Department of Pediatrics, University 
of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada. michaelv@ualberta.ca

PURPOSE: To describe neonatal and childhood outcomes of a contemporary cohort of 
infants with gastroschisis.
METHODS: Observational, single center, inception cohort of children born with 
gastroschisis from January 2005 to December 2008.
RESULTS: Of 63 infants, 61 survived to hospital discharge and 39 were seen for 
follow-up. Complications included sepsis (37%), necrotizing enterocolitis (10%), 
parenteral nutrition related cholestasis (25%), and short bowel syndrome (13%). 
Of survivors, 5% had visual impairment and 10% had hearing loss. No child tested 
had mental delay or cerebral palsy. Early gestational age predicted death or 
disability (OR 0.60, 95% CI 0.38, 0.96; p=0.033). There was a high incidence of 
prescription medications for presumed gastroesophageal reflux (90%). Some 
infants continued to require tube feeds (15%). There were improvements in 
longitudinal growth reflected in increasing z-scores.
CONCLUSIONS: Although children with gastroschisis are at risk for disability, 
childhood outcomes are encouraging.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpedsurg.2013.01.021
PMID: 23932607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1019. J Pediatr Surg. 2013 Aug;48(8):1688-96. doi: 10.1016/j.jpedsurg.2012.11.046.

Growth and developmental outcomes of infants with gastroschisis at one year of 
age: a retrospective study.

Minutillo C(1), Rao SC, Pirie S, McMichael J, Dickinson JE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neonatology, Princess Margaret Hospital for Children, Perth, 
Western Australia.

BACKGROUND: The aim of the study was to describe the physical growth and 
developmental outcomes of babies born with gastroschisis.
METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed all cases of gastroschisis in Western 
Australia born between 1997 and 2010.
RESULTS: In the 128 pregnancies with fetal gastroschisis, 117 babies were live 
born. 112 (95.7%) survived to one year. 19% had z scores of<-1.28 for weight at 
birth (<10th centiles) compared with 30% at one year. Neurodevelopmental data 
were available in 88/112 (79%) of survivors (Griffiths scores in 67; reports of 
ages and stages questionnaire (ASQ) in 21). The mean GQ at 12 months was 99 (SD 
9.8). Suboptimal neurodevelopmental outcomes were noted in eight. Complex 
gastroschisis (present at birth) and acquired gut related complications were 
associated with adverse long term outcomes. The incidence of acquired gut 
complications was least (5%) in those who underwent silo reduction as the 
primary management. However, on univariate and multivariate analysis, the type 
of primary reduction did not significantly influence the outcome.
CONCLUSIONS: A large proportion of infants with gastroschisis exhibit suboptimal 
weight gain during the first year. The incidence of adverse developmental 
outcomes appears to be low.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpedsurg.2012.11.046
PMID: 23932608 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1020. Surg Obes Relat Dis. 2013 Nov-Dec;9(6):991-6. doi: 10.1016/j.soard.2013.04.018. 
Epub 2013 May 28.

School and cognitive functioning problems in adolescent bariatric surgery 
candidates.

Freidl EK(1), Sysko R, Devlin MJ, Zitsman JL, Kaplan SC, Walsh BT.

Author information:
(1)New York State Psychiatric Institute and the Department of Psychiatry, 
Columbia University, New York, New York. Electronic address: 
ek2613@columbia.edu.

BACKGROUND: Prior studies have reported that students with overweight and 
obesity have impairments in performance IQ and executive function and worse 
school functioning in comparison with peers of normal weight. The present study 
assessed school and cognitive functioning in a sample of adolescents with severe 
obesity being evaluated for laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding.
METHODS: Eligible candidates for bariatric surgery were referred for psychiatric 
evaluation, which included a semistructured clinical interview measuring school 
functioning and the vocabulary and matrix reasoning subtests of the Wechsler 
Abbreviated Scale of Intelligence (WASI).
RESULTS: Self-reported school problems were common, with 55.5% of adolescents 
failing a grade or subject, 38.7% attending summer school, and 17.8% failing a 
citywide examination. A significant relationship was observed between body mass 
index, estimated WASI IQ (r = -.250; P = .005), and the vocabulary subtest (r = 
-.241; P = .006), but not matrix reasoning (r = -.126; P = NS).
CONCLUSION: Even among a sample of adolescents with severe obesity, increased 
body mass index was associated with lower WASI IQ and vocabulary subtest scores. 
Increasing awareness of potential cognitive and school problems in bariatric 
candidates among teachers, school counselors, and other mental health providers 
is an important first step to improving academic support and educational systems 
deficiencies for students with overweight and obesity.

Copyright © 2013 American Society for Bariatric Surgery. Published by Elsevier 
Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.soard.2013.04.018
PMCID: PMC3859811
PMID: 23932993 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1021. Neuroscience. 2013 Nov 12;252:109-17. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2013.07.015. 
Epub 2013 Aug 9.

Body mass index, but not FTO genotype or major depressive disorder, influences 
brain structure.

Cole JH(1), Boyle CP, Simmons A, Cohen-Woods S, Rivera M, McGuffin P, Thompson 
PM, Fu CH.

Author information:
(1)Social, Genetic & Developmental Psychiatry Research Centre, Institute of 
Psychiatry, King's College London, De Crespigny Park, Denmark Hill, London SE5 
8AF, UK; Computational, Cognitive, and Clinical Neuroimaging Laboratory, 
Division of Brain Sciences, Imperial College London, Burlington Danes Building, 
Hammersmith Hospital, Du Cane Road, London W12 0NN, UK. Electronic address: 
james.cole@imperial.ac.uk.

Obesity and major depressive disorder (MDD) are highly prevalent and often 
comorbid health conditions. Both are associated with differences in brain 
structure and are genetically influenced. Yet, little is known about how 
obesity, MDD, and known risk genotypes might interact in the brain. Subjects 
were 81 patients with MDD (mean age 48.6 years) and 69 matched healthy controls 
(mean age 51.2 years). Subjects underwent 1.5T magnetic resonance imaging, 
genotyping for the fat mass and obesity associated (FTO) gene rs3751812 
polymorphism, and measurements for body mass index (BMI). We conducted a whole 
brain voxelwise analysis using tensor-based morphometry (TBM) to examine the 
main and interaction effects of diagnosis, BMI and FTO genotype. Significant 
effects of BMI were observed across widespread brain regions, indicating 
reductions in predominantly subcortical and white matter areas associated with 
increased BMI, but there was no influence of MDD or FTO rs3751812 genotype. 
There were no significant interaction effects. Within MDD patients, there was no 
effect of current depressive symptoms; however the use of antidepressant 
medication was associated with reductions in brain volume in the frontal lobe 
and cerebellum. Obesity affects brain structure in both healthy participants and 
MDD patients; this influence may account for some of the brain changes 
previously associated with MDD. BMI and the use of medication should ideally be 
measured and controlled for when conducting structural brain imaging research in 
MDD.

Copyright © 2013 IBRO. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2013.07.015
PMID: 23933215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1022. J Epidemiol. 2013 Sep 5;23(5):360-70. doi: 10.2188/jea.je20120168. Epub 2013 Aug 
10.

Associations of prenatal mercury exposure from maternal fish consumption and 
polyunsaturated fatty acids with child neurodevelopment: a prospective cohort 
study in Italy.

Valent F(1), Mariuz M, Bin M, Little D, Mazej D, Tognin V, Tratnik J, McAfee AJ, 
Mulhern MS, Parpinel M, Carrozzi M, Horvat M, Tamburlini G, Barbone F.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Hygiene and Clinical Epidemiology, University Hospital of Udine, 
Udine, Italy. francesca.valent@uniud.it

BACKGROUND: Mercury is a neurotoxin, and limited prenatal exposure to it can 
affect long-term child neurodevelopment. However, results of epidemiologic 
studies of such exposure have been inconsistent. We examined the association of 
prenatal mercury exposure from maternal fish consumption with child 
neurodevelopment in northern Italy.
METHODS: A population-based cohort of 606 children and their mothers was studied 
from pregnancy to age 18 months. Mercury levels were measured in maternal hair 
and blood during pregnancy and in umbilical cord blood and breast milk. Levels 
of polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) were measured in maternal serum. Maternal 
and child intakes of fish were assessed by using a food frequency questionnaire. 
The Bayley Scales of Infant and Toddler Development, Third Edition (BSID-III) 
was used to evaluate child neurodevelopment. Multivariate linear regression was 
used to examine the association of mercury exposure with BSID-III scores, after 
controlling for maternal fish intake, PUFAs during pregnancy, and several other 
confounders.
RESULTS: Mean weekly fish intake during pregnancy was less than 2 servings. 
Mercury concentrations in biological samples were low (mean, 1061 ng/g in hair) 
and moderately correlated with fish intake, particularly of carnivorous species. 
Maternal ω-3 PUFA concentrations were poorly correlated with fish intake. 
Maternal intelligence quotient (IQ) and child intake of fish were significantly 
associated with neurodevelopment scores. In multivariate models, the level of Hg 
exposure was not associated with neurodevelopmental performance at 18 months.
CONCLUSIONS: In this Italian population, neurodevelopment at 18 months was 
associated with child intake of fresh fish and maternal IQ rather than with 
mercury exposure. The expected beneficial effect of maternal fish intake (from 
maternal ω-3 PUFAs) was not found.

DOI: 10.2188/jea.je20120168
PMCID: PMC3775530
PMID: 23933621 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1023. ScientificWorldJournal. 2013 Jul 14;2013:370172. doi: 10.1155/2013/370172. Print 
2013.

An improved marriage in honey bees optimization algorithm for single objective 
unconstrained optimization.

Celik Y(1), Ulker E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Computer Programming, Karamanoglu Mehmetbey University, 
Karaman, Turkey. celik_yuksel@hotmail.com

Marriage in honey bees optimization (MBO) is a metaheuristic optimization 
algorithm developed by inspiration of the mating and fertilization process of 
honey bees and is a kind of swarm intelligence optimizations. In this study we 
propose improved marriage in honey bees optimization (IMBO) by adding Levy 
flight algorithm for queen mating flight and neighboring for worker drone 
improving. The IMBO algorithm's performance and its success are tested on the 
well-known six unconstrained test functions and compared with other 
metaheuristic optimization algorithms.

DOI: 10.1155/2013/370172
PMCID: PMC3725828
PMID: 23935416 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1024. PLoS One. 2013 Jul 31;8(7):e70160. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0070160. Print 
2013.

Developmental gains in visuospatial memory predict gains in mathematics 
achievement.

Li Y(1), Geary DC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Educational, School, and Counseling Psychology, University of 
Missouri, Columbia, Missouri, USA.

Visuospatial competencies are related to performance in mathematical domains in 
adulthood, but are not consistently related to mathematics achievement in 
children. We confirmed the latter for first graders and demonstrated that 
children who show above average first-to-fifth grade gains in visuospatial 
memory have an advantage over other children in mathematics. The study involved 
the assessment of the mathematics and reading achievement of 177 children in 
kindergarten to fifth grade, inclusive, and their working memory capacity and 
processing speed in first and fifth grade. Intelligence was assessed in first 
grade and their second to fourth grade teachers reported on their in-class 
attentive behavior. Developmental gains in visuospatial memory span (d = 2.4) 
were larger than gains in the capacity of the central executive (d = 1.6) that 
in turn were larger than gains in phonological memory span (d = 1.1). First to 
fifth grade gains in visuospatial memory and in speed of numeral processing 
predicted end of fifth grade mathematics achievement, as did first grade central 
executive scores, intelligence, and in-class attentive behavior. The results 
suggest there are important individual differences in the rate of growth of 
visuospatial memory during childhood and that these differences become 
increasingly important for mathematics learning.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0070160
PMCID: PMC3729464
PMID: 23936154 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


1025. PLoS One. 2013 Jul 30;8(7):e70799. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0070799. Print 
2013.

Physical predictors of cognitive performance in healthy older adults: a 
cross-sectional analysis.

Blankevoort CG(1), Scherder EJ, Wieling MB, Hortobágyi T, Brouwer WH, Geuze RH, 
van Heuvelen MJ.

Author information:
(1)Center for Human Movement Sciences, University of Groningen, University 
Medical Center Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands. c.g.blankevoort@gmail.com

There is ample evidence that physical and cognitive performance are related, but 
the results of studies investigating this relationship show great variability. 
Both physical performance and cognitive performance are constructs consisting of 
several subdomains, but it is presently unknown if the relationship between 
physical and cognitive performance depends on subdomain of either construct and 
whether gender and age moderate this relationship. The aim of this study is to 
identify the strongest physical predictors of cognitive performance, to 
determine the specificity of these predictors for various cognitive subdomains, 
and to examine gender and age as potential moderators of the relationship 
between physical and cognitive performance in a sample of community-dwelling 
older adults. In total, 98 men and 122 women (average age 74.0±5.6 years) were 
subjected to a series of performance-based physical fitness and 
neuropsychological tests. Muscle strength, balance, functional reach, and 
walking ability (combined score of walking speed and endurance) were considered 
to predict cognitive performance across several domains (i.e. memory, verbal 
attention, visual attention, set-shifting, visuo-motor attention, inhibition and 
intelligence). Results showed that muscle strength was a significant predictor 
of cognitive performance for men and women. Walking ability and balance were 
significant predictors of cognitive performance for men, whereas only walking 
ability was significant for women. We did not find a moderating effect of age, 
nor did we find support for a differential effect of the physical predictors 
across different cognitive subdomains. In summary, our results showed a 
significant relationship between cognitive and physical performance, with a 
moderating effect of gender.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0070799
PMCID: PMC3728317
PMID: 23936251 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


1026. Dev Med Child Neurol. 2013 Dec;55(12):1143-9. doi: 10.1111/dmcn.12242. Epub 2013 
Aug 13.

Neurodevelopmental outcome, psychological adjustment, and quality of life in 
adolescents with congenital heart disease.

Schaefer C(1), von Rhein M, Knirsch W, Huber R, Natalucci G, Caflisch J, Landolt 
MA, Latal B.

Author information:
(1)Child Development Centre, University Children's Hospital Zurich, Zurich, 
Switzerland.

Comment in
    Dev Med Child Neurol. 2013 Dec;55(12):1072-3.

AIM: The aim of this study was to examine neurodevelopment, psychological 
adjustment, and health-related quality of life (HRQoL) in adolescents after 
bypass surgery for congenital heart disease (CHD) during early childhood.
METHOD: Fifty-nine adolescents (34 females, 25 males) with CHD were examined at 
a median age of 13 years 8 months (range 11 y 5 mo-16 y 11 mo). Outcome was 
assessed with the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children, (fourth edition); 
the Beery Test of Visual-Motor Integration; the Rey-Osterrieth Complex Figure 
Test; the Zurich Neuromotor Assessment; the Strengths and Difficulties 
Questionnaire; and the KIDSCREEN questionnaires. Results were compared with 
those of 40 age- and sex-matched healthy comparison individuals.
RESULTS: Outcome with regard to full-scale IQ, perceptual reasoning, and the 
working memory scale was poorer in patients with CHD than in the comparison 
group (all p ≤ 0.001). Visual perception, visuomotor integration (p ≤ 0.001), 
and executive functions (Rey figure copy: p=0.05) were also affected. Patients 
with CHD also had lower scores on all motor domains (p < 0.02) except static 
balance. Psychological adjustment was affected only in the 'peer relationship' 
domain (p=0.05). Quality of life was similar to that of typically developing 
peers.
INTERPRETATION: Adolescents with CHD may manifest persistent cognitive and motor 
impairments, while psychological adjustment and self-reported HRQoL are mostly 
typical. Thus, long-term neurodevelopmental evaluations are necessary to provide 
early educational and therapeutic support.

© 2013 Mac Keith Press.

DOI: 10.1111/dmcn.12242
PMID: 23937239 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1027. Psychol Assess. 2013 Dec;25(4):1314-21. doi: 10.1037/a0034102. Epub 2013 Aug 12.

How well is psychometric g indexed by global composites? Evidence from three 
popular intelligence tests.

Reynolds MR(1), Floyd RG, Niileksela CR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology and Research in Education.

Global composites (e.g., IQs) calculated in intelligence tests are interpreted 
as indexes of the general factor of intelligence, or psychometric g. It is 
therefore important to understand the proportion of variance in those global 
composites that is explained by g. In this study, we calculated this value, 
referred to as hierarchical omega, using large-scale, nationally representative 
norming sample data from 3 popular individually administered tests of 
intelligence for children and adolescents. We also calculated the proportion of 
variance explained in the global composites by g and the group factors, referred 
to as omega total, or composite reliability, for comparison purposes. Within 
each battery, g was measured equally well. Using total sample data, we found 
that 82%-83% of the total test score variance was explained by g. The group 
factors were also measured in the global composites, with both g and group 
factors explaining 89%-91% of the total test score variance for the total 
samples. Global composites are primarily indexes of g, but the group factors, as 
a whole, also explain a meaningful amount of variance.

(c) 2013 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/a0034102
PMID: 23937534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1028. Arch Pathol Lab Med. 2014 Apr;138(4):526-37. doi: 10.5858/arpa.2013-0250-CP. 
Epub 2013 Aug 12.

A call to standardize preanalytic data elements for biospecimens.

Robb JA(1), Gulley ML, Fitzgibbons PL, Kennedy MF, Cosentino LM, Washington K, 
Dash RC, Branton PA, Jewell SD, Lapham RL.

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Pathology, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill 
(Dr Gulley); the Department of Pathology, St Jude Medical Center, Fullerton, 
California (Dr Fitzgibbons); the College of American Pathologists, Northfield, 
Illinois (Ms Kennedy); the Department of Translational Medicine, Biogen Idec, 
Cambridge, Massachusetts (Dr Cosentino); the Department of Pathology, Vanderbilt 
Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee (Dr Washington); the Department of 
Pathology, Duke Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina (Dr Dash); the 
Biorepositories and Biospecimens Research Branch, National Cancer Institute, 
National Institutes of Health, Rockville, Maryland (Dr Branton); the Department 
of Biospecimen Science, Van Andel Institute, Grand Rapids, Michigan (Dr Jewell); 
and the Department of Pathology, Spartanburg Regional Medical Center, 
Spartanburg, South Carolina (Dr Lapham).

Comment in
    Arch Pathol Lab Med. 2014 Apr;138(4):452.

CONTEXT: Biospecimens must have appropriate clinical annotation (data) to ensure 
optimal quality for both patient care and research. Clinical preanalytic 
variables are the focus of this study.
OBJECTIVE: To define the essential preanalytic variables (data fields) that 
should be attached to every collected biospecimen and to provide a complete list 
of such variables, along with their relative importance, which can vary, 
depending on downstream use, institutional needs, and information technology 
capabilities.
DESIGN: The College of American Pathologists Diagnostic Intelligence and Health 
Information Technology Committee sponsored a Biorepository Working Group to 
develop a ranked list of the preanalytic variables for annotating biospecimens. 
Members of the working group were experts in anatomic, clinical, and molecular 
pathology; biobanking; medical informatics; and accreditation. Several members 
had experience with federal government programs, such as the National Cancer 
Institute's Biospecimens and Biorepository Branch and the National Cancer 
Institute's Community Cancer Center Program. Potential preanalytic variables 
were identified and ranked along with available supporting evidence, 
definitions, and potential negative effects if the variable was not attached to 
the biospecimen. Additional national and international stakeholders reviewed the 
draft manuscript.
RESULTS: The ranked listing of 170 preanalytic variables produced can be used as 
a guide for site-specific implementation into patient care and/or research 
biorepository processes. Conclusions.-In our collective experience, it is often 
difficult to choose which of the many preanalytic variables to attach to any 
specific set of biospecimens used for patient care and/or research. The provided 
ranked list should aid in the selection of preanalytic variables for a given 
biospecimen collection.

DOI: 10.5858/arpa.2013-0250-CP
PMCID: PMC6446924
PMID: 23937609 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1029. Epilepsy Behav. 2013 Oct;29(1):96-102. doi: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2013.06.004. Epub 
2013 Aug 9.

Validation of a screening tool for attention and executive functions (EpiTrack 
Junior) in children and adolescents with absence epilepsy.

Kadish NE(1), Baumann M, Pietz J, Schubert-Bast S, Reuner G.

Author information:
(1)Center for Child and Adolescent Medicine, Section Neuropediatrics, University 
Hospital Heidelberg, Germany. Electronic address: navah.kadish@web.de.

OBJECTIVE: Our prospective study aimed at the validation of EpiTrack Junior, a 
neuropsychological screening tool for attention and executive functions in 
children with epilepsy.
METHODS: Twenty-two children with absence epilepsy aged 8-17 years underwent 
comprehensive neuropsychological evaluation including EpiTrack Junior and 
measures of intelligence, verbal and nonverbal memory, word fluency and 
visuoconstructive organization. Concurrent and discriminant validity of EpiTrack 
Junior subtests and total score as well as sensitivity and specificity of the 
total score were analyzed.
RESULTS: EpiTrack Junior total score was impaired in 59% of participants. 
Concurrent validity was demonstrated in 4/6 subtests and for the total score. 
Discriminant validity was shown with respect to verbal and nonverbal long-term 
memory. Sensitivity was higher than specificity and highest for the "working 
memory index".
CONCLUSION: EpiTrack Junior is recommended as a sensitive and time-efficient 
screening tool for attention and executive functions in children with epilepsy. 
Impaired results should be followed up with detailed evaluation including 
information from the parents and school as well as counseling where indicated.

© 2013.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2013.06.004
PMID: 23939033 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1030. Fortschr Neurol Psychiatr. 2013 Aug;81(8):452-8. doi: 10.1055/s-0033-1335993. 
Epub 2013 Aug 12.

[Assessing activities of daily living in patients with epilepsy].

[Article in German]

Helmstaedter C(1), Droege F, Witt JA.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Epileptologie, Universitätsklinikum Bonn. 
C.Helmstaedter@uni-bonn.de

BACKGROUND: Objective cognitive assessment and subjective self-assessment do not 
sufficiently reflect actual daily routines and everyday functioning of patients 
with epilepsy. The study at hand examined whether a questionnaire assessing the 
activities of daily living provides additional diagnostic information.
METHODS: A total of 180 consecutive patients with epilepsy received a 
questionnaire addressing (i) mood, (ii) subjective cognitive performance as well 
as (iii) frequencies of subjective problems in everyday life and (iv) 36 
activities of daily living (ADL-Track). Normative data were based on 536 healthy 
volunteers. Analysis focused on the interrelation among these subjective 
measures as well as their relation to objective neuropsychological performance.
RESULTS: Compared to the normative sample, social activities, home activities, 
and mobility were reduced in 25 - 34 % of the patients (OR = 2.07 - 2.79). 
Frequencies of activities of daily living reflect the results of subjective 
performance ratings ("attention", "praxia") and objective performance in 
attention, language, intelligence and memory. A negative mood showed highly 
significant correlations with subjective complaints and increased the risk of 
reduced activities by a factor of 2 - 3. Multiple regression analyses explained 
between 9 - 22 % of the variance of the ADL-Track scales.
CONCLUSION: The ADL-Track, a questionnaire on frequencies of activities of daily 
living, appears more independent from mood than subjective complaints and it 
shows relevant correlations with subjective and even more with objective 
cognitive measures. Moreover, it indicates a behavioural domain in epilepsy 
which is not yet covered by standard diagnostics. When applied longitudinally, 
the ADL-Track may well turn out to be a valuable longer-term outcome parameter 
with regard to epilepsy and its treatment.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0033-1335993
PMID: 23939558 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1031. Pers Soc Psychol Rev. 2013 Nov;17(4):384-401. doi: 10.1177/1088868313498001. 
Epub 2013 Aug 12.

The collective origins of valued originality: a social identity approach to 
creativity.

Haslam SA(1), Adarves-Yorno I, Postmes T, Jans L.

Author information:
(1)1University of Queensland, Australia.

Prevailing approaches to individual and group creativity have focused on 
personal factors that contribute to creative behavior (e.g., personality, 
intelligence, motivation), and the processes of behaving creatively and 
appreciating creativity are understood to be largely unrelated. This article 
uses social identity and self-categorization theories as the basis for a model 
of creativity that addresses these lacunae by emphasizing the role that groups 
play in stimulating and shaping creative acts and in determining the reception 
they are given. We argue that shared social identity (or lack of it) motivates 
individuals to rise to particular creative challenges and provides a basis for 
certain forms of creativity to be recognized (or disregarded). Empirical work 
informed by this approach supports eight novel hypotheses relating to 
individual, group, and systemic dimensions of the creativity process. These also 
provide an agenda for future creativity research.

DOI: 10.1177/1088868313498001
PMID: 23940233 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1032. J Med Syst. 2013 Oct;37(5):9963. doi: 10.1007/s10916-013-9963-2. Epub 2013 Aug 
13.

Adding intelligence to mobile asset management in hospitals: the true value of 
RFID.

Castro L(1), Lefebvre E, Lefebvre LA.

Author information:
(1)École Polytechnique de Montréal, Mathematics and Industrial Engineering, P.O. 
Box 6079, Station Centre-Ville, Montreal, Quebec, Canada, H3C 3A7, 
linda.castro@polymtl.ca.

RFID (Radio Frequency Identification) technology is expected to play a vital 
role in the healthcare arena, especially in times when cost containments are at 
the top of the priorities of healthcare management authorities. Medical 
equipment represents a significant share of yearly healthcare operational costs; 
hence, ensuring an effective and efficient management of such key assets is 
critical to promptly and reliably deliver a diversity of clinical services at 
the patient bedside. Empirical evidence from a phased-out RFID implementation in 
one European hospital demonstrates that RFID has the potential to transform 
asset management by improving inventory management, enhancing asset utilization, 
increasing staff productivity, improving care services, enhancing maintenance 
compliance, and increasing information visibility. Most importantly, RFID allows 
the emergence of intelligent asset management processes, which is, undoubtedly, 
the most important benefit that could be derived from the RFID system. Results 
show that the added intelligence can be rather basic (auto-status change) or a 
bit more advanced (personalized automatic triggers). More importantly, adding 
intelligence improves planning and decision-making processes.

DOI: 10.1007/s10916-013-9963-2
PMID: 23943057 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1033. J Ophthalmic Vis Res. 2013 Apr;8(2):139-46.

Intelligence Quotient (IQ) in Congenital Strabismus.

Bagheri A(1), Fallahi MR, Tamannaifard S, Vajebmonfared S, Zonozian S.

Author information:
(1)Ophthalmic Research Center, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, Iran.

PURPOSE: To evaluate intelligence quotient (IQ) in patients with congenital 
strabismus.
METHODS: All patients with congenital strabismus scheduled for surgery were 
enrolled consecutively over a one year period in a cross-sectional study and 
were evaluated for verbal, performance and total IQ scores, and compared to the 
mean normal IQ of 100±15.
RESULTS: During the study period, 109 patients with mean age of 18.4±10.5 
(range, 4-63) years were included. Educational status in most patients (80%) was 
less than high-school. Most patients (80%) lived in urban areas and 46 patients 
(42.2%) had some degrees of unilateral or bilateral amblyopia. Mean verbal IQ 
was 87.2±19.6 (range, 45-127), performance IQ was 81±15.5 (range, 44-111) and 
total IQ was 83.5±18.3 (range, 40-120). Total IQ was significantly lower in 
comparison to the normal population (P<0.01) and significantly higher in urban 
as compared to rural residents (85.1±19.5 versus 77.3±10.8 respectively, 
P=0.02). Patients with coexisting amblyopia and alternate deviation had lower IQ 
levels. Verbal IQ was insignificantly higher in myopes than emmetropes and 
hyperopes. IQ was better with vertical deviations and was higher in esotropes 
than exotropes; however, these differences were not statistically significant 
(P>0.05 for all comparisons).
CONCLUSION: Patients with congenital strabismus in this study had lower mean IQ 
scores than the normal population which may be due to genetic background or 
acquired causes secondary to strabismus.

PMCID: PMC3740466
PMID: 23943689


1034. Seishin Shinkeigaku Zasshi. 2013;115(6):601-6.

[Psychiatric issues of children and adults with autism spectrum disorders who 
remain undiagnosed].

[Article in Japanese]

Kamio Y(1), Moriwaki A, Takei R, Inada N, Inokuchi E, Takahashi H, Nakahachi T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Child and Adolescent Mental Health, National Institute of 
Mental Health, National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry.

Individuals of normal intelligence with autism spectrum disorders (ASD) tend to 
be diagnosed with ASD late in childhood or sometimes in adulthood, despite a 
persistent symptomatology. When such patients visit psychiatric clinics for 
co-occurring psychiatric symptoms, the diagnostic procedure can be challenging 
due to a lack of accurate developmental information and a mixed clinical 
presentation. The same is true for those with subthreshold autistic symptoms. 
Although individuals with subthreshold ASD also have social adjustment 
difficulties of a similar degree to those with ASD, the relative clinical 
significance of this population is unclear. Here, data from a large national 
population sample of schoolchildren were examined to determine the psychiatric 
needs of children with threshold and subthreshold autistic symptoms. First, 
autistic symptoms or traits assessed by the Social Responsiveness Scale (SRS), a 
quantitative behavioral measure, showed a continuous distribution in the general 
child population (n = 22,529), indicating no evidence of a natural gap that 
could differentiate children diagnosed with ASD from subthreshold or unaffected 
children. Second, data from 25,075 children demonstrated that having threshold 
autistic symptoms predicted a high psychiatric risk, as indicated by higher 
scores on the Strengths and Difficulties Questionnaire (SDQ; odds ratio [OR] 
200.52, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 152.12-264.33), and that having 
subthreshold autistic symptoms indicated the same (OR 12.78, 95% CI: 
11.52-14.18). Having threshold autistic symptoms predicted emotional problems 
(OR 20.19, 95% CI: 17.00-24.00), as did having subthreshold autistic symptoms 
(OR 5.90, 95% CI: 5.29-6.58). Third, among 2,250 children at a high psychiatric 
risk, most had threshold or subthreshold autistic symptoms (21 and 44%, 
respectively). These findings have important implications for the comprehensive 
psychiatric and developmental evaluation and treatment of this patient 
population, whose diagnosis and treatment are often delayed, and a further 
in-depth study is warranted.

PMID: 23944117 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1035. Hum Reprod. 2013 Oct;28(10):2832-7. doi: 10.1093/humrep/det335. Epub 2013 Aug 
14.

Visual-spatial cognition in women with polycystic ovarian syndrome: the role of 
androgens.

Barry JA(1), Parekh HS, Hardiman PJ.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Women's Health, University College London Medical School, 
London NW3 2PF, UK.

STUDY QUESTION: Are women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) better at 
three-dimensional mental rotation than other women?
SUMMARY ANSWER: Women with PCOS scored significantly higher on a mental rotation 
task than a female control group.
WHAT IS KNOWN ALREADY: PCOS is a condition characterized by elevated 
testosterone levels. Some researches have found that three-dimensional mental 
rotation task performance is positively correlated with testosterone levels.
STUDY DESIGN, SIZE, DURATION: This cross-sectional study was conducted between 
June 2006 and January 2009. The participants were 69 women with PCOS and 41 
controls recruited from five gynaecology clinics in London. The control group 
consisted of non-PCOS women of comparable subfertility to PCOS group. These 
groups sizes gave roughly 80% power to detect moderate effect sizes for the main 
statistical test.
PARTICIPANTS/MATERIALS, SETTING, METHODS: Participants were recruited at London 
gynaecology clinics. The women were aged between 18 and 43. PCOS was diagnosed 
based on the Rotterdam criteria. Controls were women who experienced some degree 
of subfertility. Blood samples from participants were frozen for up to 4 months 
until being assayed by direct electrochemiluminescence. The mental rotation task 
was undertaken electronically. Some questionnaires and other tasks were 
completed as control measures.
MAIN RESULTS AND THE ROLE OF CHANCE: Women with PCOS scored significantly higher 
than controls: median (range) 3.00 (0-9) and 2.00 (0-8), respectively (U = 
1147.500, N1 = 69, N2 = 41, P < 0.047). Within the PCOS group, circulating 
levels of testosterone were significantly positively correlated with 
three-dimensional scoring (rs = 0.376, n = 56, P < 0.002), whereas estradiol was 
significantly negatively correlated with three-dimensional scoring (rs = -0.473, 
n = 29, P < 0.010). In the control group, the relationship between sex hormones 
and mental rotation was non-significant. Other factors, including general 
intelligence and social class, did not account for these findings. A subgroup 
analysis comparing hyperandrogenic PCOS cases, non-hyperandrogenic PCOS cases 
and controls, in which age and body mass index were controlled for using ANCOVA, 
found a non-significant difference in three-dimensional scoring between the 
three groups (F = 1.062, d.f. = 1, 73, P < 0.351).
LIMITATIONS, REASONS FOR CAUTION: The small number of women in the control group 
meant that correlations were underpowered in this group.
WIDER IMPLICATIONS OF THE FINDINGS: This study is the first to find a benefit of 
PCOS in visuospatial cognition, and the first to find a link between 
visuospatial cognition and sex hormones in PCOS. The fact that the correlations 
went in the opposite direction in the PCOS group compared with the controls 
might suggest the influence of increased prenatal exposure to androgen in PCOS.
STUDY FUNDING/COMPETING INTEREST(S): The assays for this study were funded by 
the Department of Psychology, City University London. All authors report no 
conflicts of interest.

DOI: 10.1093/humrep/det335
PMID: 23945597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1036. Neurology. 2013 Sep 17;81(12):1044-50. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0b013e3182a4a3e3. Epub 
2013 Aug 14.

Cognitive functioning before and after surgical resection for hypothalamic 
hamartoma and epilepsy.

Wethe JV(1), Prigatano GP, Gray J, Chapple K, Rekate HL, Kerrigan JF.

Author information:
(1)From the Divisions of Neurology and Neurosurgery, Barrow Neurological 
Institute, St. Joseph's Hospital and Medical Center, Phoenix, AZ.

Comment in
    Neurology. 2013 Sep 17;81(12):1028-9.

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether patients with hypothalamic hamartoma (HH) 
improve in their cognitive functioning after neurosurgical resection of their HH 
and explore what variables correlate with cognitive outcome.
METHODS: Thirty-two patients underwent preoperative and postoperative 
neuropsychological testing. The age range of patients was between 3.3 and 39.3 
years (mean 12.2 years, SD 7.0). The average time interval between surgery and 
postoperative neuropsychological testing was 23.4 months (range 5.1-47.2 
months). Tests administered varied on the basis of the patient's age and 
clinical condition.
RESULTS: As a group, measures of overall intelligence showed improvement 
postsurgery, with associated improvement in processing speed. Memory scores did 
not demonstrate consistent improvement or decline. Duration of epilepsy, age at 
surgery, and level of neurocognitive functioning prior to surgery were 
correlated with postsurgical cognitive status. Patients who had mental 
retardation but were testable generally showed the greatest gains.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite the great variability in level of cognitive impairment in 
patients with HH and refractory epilepsy, level of intelligence may show mild to 
moderate improvements postsurgery if no surgical complications occur. The 
variables that predict cognitive outcome are not fully delineated, but testable 
individuals with the greatest presurgical cognitive impairment and those with 
the shortest duration of epilepsy appear to make the greatest gains in 
intellectual functioning.
CLASSIFICATION OF EVIDENCE: This study provides Class IV evidence that single 
surgical resection for HH was associated with improvement in some subset 
measures of intellectual functioning, but not memory. Factors that predict 
better outcomes cannot be determined.

DOI: 10.1212/WNL.0b013e3182a4a3e3
PMID: 23946307 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1037. J Nutr. 2013 Oct;143(10):1611-7. doi: 10.3945/jn.112.170605. Epub 2013 Aug 14.

Diet quality of U.K. infants is associated with dietary, adiposity, 
cardiovascular, and cognitive outcomes measured at 7-8 years of age.

Golley RK(1), Smithers LG, Mittinty MN, Emmett P, Northstone K, Lynch JW.

Author information:
(1)Sansom Institute for Health Research, University of South Australia, 
Adelaide, Australia.

Whereas the influence of pregnancy diet and milk feeding on children's health 
and development is well characterized, the role of early food intake and eating 
behaviors is largely unexplored. This study aimed to determine whether the 
degree of adherence to complementary feeding guidelines was associated with 
dietary, obesity, cardiovascular, and cognitive outcomes at 7-8 y of age. Data 
were analyzed from the Avon Longitudinal Study of Parents and Children using 
parent-completed dietary questionnaires at 6 mo of age to calculate a 
Complementary Feeding Utility Index score. Regression analysis was used to 
explore associations between the index score and dietary patterns derived via 
principal component analysis (n = 4326), body-mass index (BMI) (n = 4801), waist 
circumference (n = 4798), blood pressure (n = 4685), and lipids (n = 3232) 
measured at age 7 y; and intelligence quotient (IQ) measured at age 8 y (n = 
4429) after adjustment for covariates. The index score was negatively associated 
with a "processed" dietary pattern (β = -0.16; 95% CI: -0.20, -0.13; P < 0.001) 
but positively associated with a "health conscious" dietary pattern [β = 0.18 
(95% CI: 0.14, 0.21); P < 0.001]. A higher index score was also positively 
associated with total, verbal, and performance IQ scores at 8 y of age [β = 1.92 
(95%CI: 1.38, 2.47); P < 0.001 for total IQ). The index score was weakly 
associated with waist circumference [β = -0.15 (95%CI: -0.31, -0.002); P = 
0.046] and diastolic blood pressure [β = -0.24 (95%CI: -0.47, -0.01); P = 0.043] 
at 7 y of age but was not associated with BMI or other cardiovascular risk 
factors. These findings suggest that adherence to current complementary feeding 
guidelines may have implications for some, but not all, health and development 
outcomes in childhood.

DOI: 10.3945/jn.112.170605
PMID: 23946339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1038. J Environ Health. 2013 Jul-Aug;76(1):46-8.

Environmental health--champions of One Health.

Eddy C(1), Stull PA, Balster E.

Author information:
(1)Center for Global Health Systems, Management, & Policy, Boonshoft School of 
Medicine Wright State University, Kettering, OH 45420-4006, USA. 
christopher.eddy@wright.edu

The authors find overwhelming evidence among environmental health practitioners 
that One Health disease reporting concepts are essential to the early detection 
of, and expedient recovery from, pandemic disease events. The authors also find, 
however, extraordinary evidence that local public health is not prepared, and 
potentially unaware of their responsibility, to be the initiator of the zoonotic 
infectious disease information intelligence necessary to make such early event 
mitigation possible. The authors propose that NEHA take an affirmative step 
towards the development of local public health-initiated biosurveillance systems 
by organizing and leading a tabletop study group that includes the Centers for 
Disease Control and Prevention, American Veterinary Medical Association, 
American Medical Association, Food and Drug Administration, U.S. Department of 
Agriculture, Institute of Medicine, and a robust panel of NEHA state affiliates. 
This study group should discuss the infrastructure necessary for local public 
health-the frontline against community-acquired infectious disease-to be the 
initiators of environmental health, veterinary, and medical One Health 
biosurveillance systems. The need to establish a community-focused, integrated 
disease prevention strategy that cautions people about the risks associated with 
food, water, animal, and contaminated environmental media, both prior to and 
during epidemic and pandemic events is equally important.

PMID: 23947288 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1039. J Clin Exp Neuropsychol. 2013;35(8):785-98. doi: 10.1080/13803395.2013.824554. 
Epub 2013 Aug 15.

Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Third Edition profiles and their relationship 
to self-reported outcome following traumatic brain injury.

Harman-Smith YE(1), Mathias JL, Bowden SC, Rosenfeld JV, Bigler ED.

Author information:
(1)a School of Psychology , University of Adelaide , Adelaide , SA , Australia.

Neuropsychological assessments of outcome after traumatic brain injury (TBI) are 
often unrelated to self-reported problems after TBI. The current study 
cluster-analyzed the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Third Edition (WAIS-III) 
subtest scores from mild, moderate, and severe TBI (n=220) and orthopedic injury 
control (n=95) groups, to determine whether specific cognitive profiles are 
related to people's perceived outcomes after TBI. A two-stage cluster analysis 
produced 4- and 6-cluster solutions, with the 6-cluster solution better 
capturing subtle variations in cognitive functioning. The 6 clusters differed in 
the levels and profiles of cognitive performance, self-reported recovery, and 
education and injury severity. The findings suggest that subtle cognitive 
impairments after TBI should be interpreted in conjunction with patient's 
self-reported problems.

DOI: 10.1080/13803395.2013.824554
PMID: 23947758 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1040. NeuroRehabilitation. 2013;33(3):465-71. doi: 10.3233/NRE-130979.

Relation between cingulum injury and cognition in chronic patients with 
traumatic brain injury; diffusion tensor tractography study.

Baek SO(1), Kim OL, Kim SH, Kim MS, Son SM, Cho YW, Byun WM, Jang SH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, College of Medicine, 
Yeungnam University, Taegu, Republic of Korea.

OBJECTIVES: Many diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) studies have reported an 
association between cingulum injury and cognition in patients with traumatic 
brain injury (TBI) using DTI parameters. In this study, we attempted to 
investigate the relation between cingulum injury and cognition in chronic 
patients with TBI, using the integrity of the cingulum as well as DTI 
parameters.
METHOD: Thirty five consecutive chronic patients with TBI were recruited. The 
intelligence quotient (IQ) of the Wechsler Intelligence Scale and Memory 
Assessment Scale (MAS) was used for assessment of cognition. The patients were 
classified into three groups, according to continuity to the lower portion of 
the genu of the corpus callosum: type A-both sides of the cingulum showed intact 
continuity, type B-either cingulum showed a discontinuation, and, type C-both 
cingulums showed discontinuation. We measured the fractional anisotropy (FA), 
apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC), and voxel number of both cingulums.
RESULTS: The IQ and MAS scores of type A and B were significantly higher than 
those of type C, respectively (p < 0.05), however, we did not observe a 
significant difference between type A and type B (p > 0.05). A positive 
correlation was observed between the FA value of the cingulum, and IQ and MAS, 
respectively (IQ r = 0.373, p < 0.05, MAS r = 0.357, p < 0.05), and between the 
voxel number and MAS (r = 0.500, p < 0.05). By contrast, we observed a negative 
correlation between the ADC value and IQ (r = -0.353, p < 0.05).
CONCLUSION: In terms of integrity to the basal forebrain and DTI parameters of 
the injured cingulum, DTI findings showed a close association with whole 
cognition and memory in chronic patients with TBI.

DOI: 10.3233/NRE-130979
PMID: 23949082 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1041. J Basic Clin Physiol Pharmacol. 2013;24(3):175-83. doi: 10.1515/jbcpp-2013-0048.

Aging and speech perception: beyond hearing threshold and cognitive ability.

Fostick L, Ben-Artzi E, Babkoff H.

BACKGROUND: Older adults manifest difficulties in speech perception, especially 
when speech is accompanied by noise or when speech is rapid. Several 
explanations have been suggested to account for age-related changes in speech 
perception, such as changes in hearing sensitivity or a more general decline in 
cognitive functioning. The purpose of the present study was to directly examine 
the relative contribution of hearing sensitivity and perceptual and cognitive 
factors in the understanding of age-related differences in speech perception 
under difficult conditions.
METHODS: Eighty-nine healthy participants with normal hearing thresholds, age 
21-82 years, were tested for speech perception under four conditions: quiet, 
speech noise, white noise, and time-compressed speech at 60% compression rate. 
As all participants had age-normal hearing, absolute thresholds were tested for 
click trains, 1 kHz 15-ms duration pure tone, 1 kHz 50-ms duration pure tone, 
and 1.8 kHz 15-ms duration pure tone, which are relatively short and 
discriminative for hearing ability. Cognitive ability was examined using the 
Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale (Third Edition) matrices and digit span.
RESULTS: When words were presented against a quiet background or against white 
noise, speech perception was not significantly affected by aging, although in 
the latter case, increased thresholds predicted poorer speech perception. 
However, when words were presented against a background of speech noise or when 
speech was time-compressed at a 60% rate, age significantly predicted a decline 
in speech perception, even after controlling for hearing thresholds and 
cognitive functioning.
CONCLUSIONS: Hearing threshold for short sounds is the major factor for 
predicting speech perception in background noise, across age, due to changes in 
hearing sensitivity or in temporal resolution. For the adult and aging 
population with preserved cognitive ability, cognitive functioning does not 
predict decline in speech perception.

DOI: 10.1515/jbcpp-2013-0048
PMID: 23950572 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1042. Front Neurol. 2013 Aug 9;4:107. doi: 10.3389/fneur.2013.00107. eCollection 2013.

Administration of neuropsychological tests using interactive voice response 
technology in the elderly: validation and limitations.

Miller DI(1), Talbot V, Gagnon M, Messier C.

Author information:
(1)School of Psychology, University of Ottawa , Ottawa, ON , Canada.

Interactive voice response (IVR) systems are computer programs, which interact 
with people to provide a number of services from business to health care. We 
examined the ability of an IVR system to administer and score a verbal fluency 
task (fruits) and the digit span forward and backward in 158 community dwelling 
people aged between 65 and 92 years of age (full scale IQ of 68-134). Only six 
participants could not complete all tasks mostly due to early technical problems 
in the study. Participants were also administered the Wechsler Intelligence 
Scale fourth edition (WAIS-IV) and Wechsler Memory Scale fourth edition 
subtests. The IVR system correctly recognized 90% of the fruits in the verbal 
fluency task and 93-95% of the number sequences in the digit span. The IVR 
system typically underestimated the performance of participants because of voice 
recognition errors. In the digit span, these errors led to the erroneous 
discontinuation of the test: however the correlation between IVR scoring and 
clinical scoring was still high (93-95%). The correlation between the IVR verbal 
fluency and the WAIS-IV Similarities subtest was 0.31. The correlation between 
the IVR digit span forward and backward and the in-person administration was 
0.46. We discuss how valid and useful IVR systems are for neuropsychological 
testing in the elderly.

DOI: 10.3389/fneur.2013.00107
PMCID: PMC3738914
PMID: 23950755


1043. Front Genet. 2013 Aug 9;4:155. doi: 10.3389/fgene.2013.00155. eCollection 2013.

Human migration, diversity and disease association: a convergent role of 
established and emerging DNA markers.

Guha P(1), Srivastava SK, Bhattacharjee S, Chaudhuri TK.

Author information:
(1)Cellular Immunology Laboratory, Department of Zoology, University of North 
Bengal, Siliguri West Bengal, India.

With the gradual development of intelligence, human got curious to know his 
origin and evolutionary background. Historical statements and anthropological 
findings were his primary tool for solving the puzzles of his own origin, until 
came the golden era of molecular markers which took no time to prove it's 
excellence in unveiling answers to the questions regarding the migration pattern 
of human across different geographical regions. As a bonus these markers proved 
very much beneficial in solving criminal offenses and in understanding the 
etiology of many dreaded diseases and to design their prevention. In this 
review, we have aimed to throw light on some of the promising molecular markers 
which are very much in application now-a-days for not only understanding the 
evolutionary background and ancient migratory routes of humans but also in the 
field of forensics and human health.

DOI: 10.3389/fgene.2013.00155
PMCID: PMC3738866
PMID: 23950760


1044. J Soc Psychol. 2013 Jul-Aug;153(4):399-423. doi: 10.1080/00224545.2012.754397.

Gender and gender role differences in self- and other-estimates of multiple 
intelligences.

Szymanowicz A(1), Furnham A.

Author information:
(1)YSC, London, UK.

This study examined participant gender and gender role differences in estimates 
of multiple intelligences for self, partner, and various hypothetical, 
stereotypical, and counter-stereotypical target persons. A general population 
sample of 261 British participants completed one of four questionnaires that 
required them to estimate their own and others' multiple intelligences and 
personality traits. Males estimated their general IQ slightly, but mathematic IQ 
significantly higher than females, who rated their social and emotional 
intelligence higher than males. Masculine individuals awarded themselves 
somewhat higher verbal and practical IQ scores than did female participants. 
Both participant gender and gender role differences in IQ estimates were found, 
with gender effects stronger in cognitive and gender role than in "personal" 
ability estimates. There was a significant effect of gender role on hypothetical 
persons' intelligence evaluations, with masculine targets receiving 
significantly higher intelligence estimates compared to feminine targets. More 
intelligent hypothetical figures were judged as more masculine and less feminine 
than less intelligent ones.

DOI: 10.1080/00224545.2012.754397
PMCID: PMC4118948
PMID: 23951949 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1045. J Child Psychol Psychiatry. 2013 Oct;54(10):1056-65. doi: 10.1111/jcpp.12120. 
Epub 2013 Aug 19.

Schooling and variation in the COMT gene: the devil is in the details.

Campbell D(1), Bick J, Yrigollen CM, Lee M, Joseph A, Chang JT, Grigorenko EL; 
Learning Disabilities Project: Zambia.

Author information:
(1)Yale University, New Haven, CT, USA.

BACKGROUND: Schooling is considered one of the major contributors to the 
development of intelligence within societies and individuals. Genetic variation 
might modulate the impact of schooling and explain, at least partially, the 
presence of individual differences in classrooms.
METHOD: We studied a sample of 1,502 children (mean age = 11.7 years) from 
Zambia. Approximately 57% of these children were enrolled in school, and the 
rest were not. To quantify genetic variation, we investigated a number of common 
polymorphisms in the catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) gene that controls the 
production of the protein thought to account for >60% of the dopamine 
degradation in the prefrontal cortex.
RESULTS: Haplotype analyses generated results ranging from the presence to 
absence of significant interactions between a number of COMT haplotypes and 
indicators of schooling (i.e., in- vs. out-of-school and grade completed) in the 
prediction of nonverbal intelligence, depending on the parameter specification. 
However, an investigation of the distribution of corresponding p-values 
suggested that these positive results were false.
CONCLUSIONS: Convincing evidence that the variation in the COMT gene is 
associated with individual differences in nonverbal intelligence either directly 
or through interactions with schooling was not found. p-values produced by the 
method of testing for haplotype effects employed here may be sensitive to 
parameter settings, invalid under default settings, and should be checked for 
validity through simulation.

© 2013 The Authors. Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry © 2013 
Association for Child and Adolescent Mental Health.

DOI: 10.1111/jcpp.12120
PMCID: PMC3786416
PMID: 23952646 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest statement: No conflicts of 
interest declared. This article was invited by the journal. The authors have 
declared that they have no competing or potential conflicts of interest.


1046. Am J Otolaryngol. 2013 Nov-Dec;34(6):646-51. doi: 10.1016/j.amjoto.2013.07.004. 
Epub 2013 Aug 13.

Brainstem auditory evoked potentials with the use of acoustic clicks and complex 
verbal sounds in young adults with learning disabilities.

Kouni SN(1), Giannopoulos S, Ziavra N, Koutsojannis C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, School of Health Sciences, University of Ioannina, 
Ioannina, Greece. Electronic address: ngkounis@otenet.gr.

PURPOSE AND BACKGROUND: Acoustic signals are transmitted through the external 
and middle ear mechanically to the cochlea where they are transduced into 
electrical impulse for further transmission via the auditory nerve. The auditory 
nerve encodes the acoustic sounds that are conveyed to the auditory brainstem. 
Multiple brainstem nuclei, the cochlea, the midbrain, the thalamus, and the 
cortex constitute the central auditory system. In clinical practice, auditory 
brainstem responses (ABRs) to simple stimuli such as click or tones are widely 
used. Recently, complex stimuli or complex auditory brain responses (cABRs), 
such as monosyllabic speech stimuli and music, are being used as a tool to study 
the brainstem processing of speech sounds. We have used the classic 'click' as 
well as, for the first time, the artificial successive complex stimuli 'ba', 
which constitutes the Greek word 'baba' corresponding to the English 'daddy'.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Twenty young adults institutionally diagnosed as dyslexic 
(10 subjects) or light dyslexic (10 subjects) comprised the diseased group. 
Twenty sex-, age-, education-, hearing sensitivity-, and IQ-matched normal 
subjects comprised the control group. Measurements included the absolute 
latencies of waves I through V, the interpeak latencies elicited by the 
classical acoustic click, the negative peak latencies of A and C waves, as well 
as the interpeak latencies of A-C elicited by the verbal stimulus 'baba' created 
on a digital speech synthesizer.
RESULTS: The absolute peak latencies of waves I, III, and V in response to 
monoaural rarefaction clicks as well as the interpeak latencies I-III, III-V, 
and I-V in the dyslexic subjects, although increased in comparison with normal 
subjects, did not reach the level of a significant difference (p<0.05). However, 
the absolute peak latencies of the negative wave C and the interpeak latencies 
of A-C elicited by verbal stimuli were found to be increased in the dyslexic 
group in comparison with the control group (p=0.0004 and p=0.045, respectively). 
In the subgroup consisting of 10 patients suffering from 'other learning 
disabilities' and who were characterized as with 'light' dyslexia according to 
dyslexia tests, no significant delays were found in peak latencies A and C and 
interpeak latencies A-C in comparison with the control group.
CONCLUSIONS: Acoustic representation of a speech sound and, in particular, the 
disyllabic word 'baba' was found to be abnormal, as low as the auditory 
brainstem. Because ABRs mature in early life, this can help to identify subjects 
with acoustically based learning problems and apply early intervention, 
rehabilitation, and treatment. Further studies and more experience with more 
patients and pathological conditions such as plasticity of the auditory system, 
cochlear implants, hearing aids, presbycusis, or acoustic neuropathy are 
necessary until this type of testing is ready for clinical application.

© 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjoto.2013.07.004
PMID: 23953938 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1047. Gene. 2013 Oct 25;529(2):215-9. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2013.08.017. Epub 2013 Aug 
14.

Lack of association between genetic polymorphisms in ROBO1, MRPL19/C2ORF3 and 
THEM2 with developmental dyslexia.

Venkatesh SK(1), Siddaiah A, Padakannaya P, Ramachandra NB.

Author information:
(1)Genetics and Genomics Laboratory, DOS in Zoology, University of Mysore, 
Manasagangotri, Mysore 570 006, Karnataka, India.

Developmental Dyslexia (DD) is a heritable, complex genetic disorder 
characterized by specific impairment in reading and writing ability that is 
substantially below the expected reading ability given the person's 
chronological age, measured intelligence and age-appropriate education. More 
than ten susceptible genes have been identified for DD. A Single Nucleotide 
Polymorphism (SNP) of these genes was found to be associated with various 
phenotypes of DD. To identify the role of SNPs of four candidate genes namely, 
MRPL19/C2ORF3, ROBO1 and THEM2 in an Indian population, we genotyped eight SNPs 
of these genes in 157 children with DD and 212 normal readers using a MassARRAY 
technique with a MALDI-TOF MS analyzer. Power analysis of some of these SNPs 
showed >80% of power. Chi-square test, Odds Ratios (ORs), 95% Confidence 
Intervals (CIs) and Bonferroni's correction were applied to identify the 
significance of the genotyped SNPs and haplotypes. Our study failed to show any 
association of SNPs and haplotypes of these genes with DD in an Indian 
population.

© 2013.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2013.08.017
PMID: 23954868 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1048. J Am Med Inform Assoc. 2013 Dec;20(e2):e306-10. doi: 
10.1136/amiajnl-2013-001924. Epub 2013 Aug 16.

Use of computerized algorithm to identify individuals in need of testing for 
celiac disease.

Ludvigsson JF(1), Pathak J, Murphy S, Durski M, Kirsch PS, Chute CG, Ryu E, 
Murray JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Örebro University Hospital, Örebro, Sweden.

BACKGROUND AND AIM: Celiac disease (CD) is a lifelong immune-mediated disease 
with excess mortality. Early diagnosis is important to minimize disease 
symptoms, complications, and consumption of healthcare resources. Most patients 
remain undiagnosed. We developed two electronic medical record (EMR)-based 
algorithms to identify patients at high risk of CD and in need of CD screening.
METHODS: (I) Using natural language processing (NLP), we searched EMRs for 16 
free text (and related) terms in 216 CD patients and 280 controls. (II) EMRs 
were also searched for ICD9 (International Classification of Disease) codes 
suggesting an increased risk of CD in 202 patients with CD and 524 controls. For 
each approach, we determined the optimal number of hits to be assigned as CD 
cases. To assess performance of these algorithms, sensitivity and specificity 
were calculated.
RESULTS: Using two hits as the cut-off, the NLP algorithm identified 72.9% of 
all celiac patients (sensitivity), and ruled out CD in 89.9% of the controls 
(specificity). In a representative US population of individuals without a prior 
celiac diagnosis (assuming that 0.6% had undiagnosed CD), this NLP algorithm 
could identify a group of individuals where 4.2% would have CD (positive 
predictive value). ICD9 code search using three hits as the cut-off had a 
sensitivity of 17.1% and a specificity of 88.5% (positive predictive value was 
0.9%).
DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS: This study shows that computerized EMR-based 
algorithms can help identify patients at high risk of CD. NLP-based techniques 
demonstrate higher sensitivity and positive predictive values than algorithms 
based on ICD9 code searches.

DOI: 10.1136/amiajnl-2013-001924
PMCID: PMC3861918
PMID: 23956016 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1049. Biomed Res Int. 2013;2013:540153. doi: 10.1155/2013/540153. Epub 2013 Jul 10.

Behavioral profiles of clinically referred children with intellectual 
giftedness.

Guénolé F(1), Louis J, Creveuil C, Baleyte JM, Montlahuc C, Fourneret P, Revol 
O.

Author information:
(1)CHU de Caen, Service de Psychiatrie de l'Enfant et de l'Adolescent, avenue 
Clemenceau, 14033 Caen Cedex 9, France. guenole fabian@yahoo.fr

It is common that intellectually gifted children--that is, children with an IQ ≥ 
130--are referred to paediatric or child neuropsychiatry clinics for 
socio-emotional problems and/or school underachievement or maladjustment. These 
clinically-referred children with intellectual giftedness are thought to 
typically display internalizing problems (i.e., self-focused problems reflecting 
overcontrol of emotion and behavior), and to be more behaviorally impaired when 
"highly" gifted (IQ ≥ 145) or displaying developmental asynchrony (i.e., a 
heterogeneous developmental pattern, reflected in a significant 
verbal-performance discrepancy on IQ tests). We tested all these assumptions in 
143 clinically-referred gifted children aged 8 to 12, using Wechsler's 
intelligence profile and the Child Behavior Checklist. Compared to a normative 
sample, gifted children displayed increased behavioral problems in the whole 
symptomatic range. Internalizing problems did not predominate over externalizing 
ones (i.e., acted-out problems, reflecting undercontrol of emotion and 
behavior), revealing a symptomatic nature of behavioral syndromes more severe 
than expected. "Highly gifted" children did not display more behavioral problems 
than the "low gifted." Gifted children with a significant verbal-performance 
discrepancy displayed more externalizing problems and mixed behavioral syndromes 
than gifted children without such a discrepancy. These results suggest that 
developmental asynchrony matters when examining emotional and behavioral 
problems in gifted children.

DOI: 10.1155/2013/540153
PMCID: PMC3722901
PMID: 23956988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1050. Healthc Financ Manage. 2013 Aug;67(8):44-7.

Using business intelligence to manage supply costs.

Bunata E(1).

Author information:
(1)VHA, Inc, Irving, Texas, USA. ebunata@vha.com

Business intelligence tools can help materials managers and managers in the 
operating room and procedural areas track purchasing costs more precisely and 
determine the root causes of cost increases. Data can be shared with physicians 
to increase their awareness of the cost of physician preference items. Proper 
use of business intelligence goes beyond price benchmarking to manage price 
performance over time.

PMID: 23957184 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1051. Psychol Aging. 2013 Dec;28(4):887-901. doi: 10.1037/a0033316. Epub 2013 Aug 19.

Longitudinal mediation of processing speed on age-related change in memory and 
fluid intelligence.

Robitaille A(1), Piccinin AM(1), Muniz-Terrera G(2), Hoffman L(3), Johansson 
B(4), Deeg DJH(5), Aartsen MJ(6), Comijs HC(7), Hofer SM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Victoria.
(2)MRC Biostatistics Unit.
(3)Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska-Lincoln.
(4)Department of Psychology, University of Gothenburg.
(5)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics and EMGO Institute for Health 
and Care Research, VU University Medical Center.
(6)Department of Social Gerontology, VU University.
(7)Department of Psychiatry/EMGO Institute for Health and Care Research, VU 
University Medical Center.

Age-related decline in processing speed has long been considered a key driver of 
cognitive aging. While the majority of empirical evidence for the processing 
speed hypothesis has been obtained from analyses of between-person age 
differences, longitudinal studies provide a direct test of within-person change. 
Using recent developments in longitudinal mediation analysis, we examine the 
speed-mediation hypothesis at both the within-and between-person levels in two 
longitudinal studies, Longitudinal Aging Study Amsterdam (LASA) and Origins of 
Variance in the Oldest-Old (OCTO-Twin). We found significant within-person 
indirect effects of change in age, such that increasing age was related to lower 
speed, which in turn relates to lower performance across repeated measures on 
other cognitive outcomes. Although between-person indirect effects were also 
significant in LASA, they were not in OCTO-Twin which is not unexpected given 
the age homogeneous nature of the OCTO-Twin data. A more in-depth examination 
through measures of effect size suggests that, for the LASA study, the 
within-person indirect effects were small and between-person indirect effects 
were consistently larger. These differing magnitudes of direct and indirect 
effects across levels demonstrate the importance of separating between- and 
within-person effects in evaluating theoretical models of age-related change.

PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2013 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/a0033316
PMCID: PMC4014000
PMID: 23957224 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1052. J Appl Psychol. 2014 Jan;99(1):125-37. doi: 10.1037/a0034138. Epub 2013 Aug 19.

Emotionally unskilled, unaware, and uninterested in learning more: reactions to 
feedback about deficits in emotional intelligence.

Sheldon OJ(1), Dunning D(2), Ames DR(3).

Author information:
(1)Rutgers Business School-Newark and New Brunswick, Rutgers University.
(2)Department of Psychology, Cornell University.
(3)Columbia Business School, Columbia University.

Despite the importance of self-awareness for managerial success, many 
organizational members hold overly optimistic views of their expertise and 
performance-a phenomenon particularly prevalent among those least skilled in a 
given domain. We examined whether this same pattern extends to appraisals of 
emotional intelligence (EI), a critical managerial competency. We also examined 
why this overoptimism tends to survive explicit feedback about performance. 
Across 3 studies involving professional students, we found that the least 
skilled had limited insight into deficits in their performance. Moreover, when 
given concrete feedback, low performers disparaged either the accuracy or the 
relevance of that feedback, depending on how expediently they could do so. 
Consequently, they expressed more reluctance than top performers to pursue 
various paths to self-improvement, including purchasing a book on EI or paying 
for professional coaching. Paradoxically, it was top performers who indicated a 
stronger desire to improve their EI following feedback.

PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved

DOI: 10.1037/a0034138
PMID: 23957689 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1053. Tob Control. 2014 May;23(e1):e44-50. doi: 10.1136/tobaccocontrol-2013-050957. 
Epub 2013 Aug 19.

Countering the demand for, and supply of, illicit tobacco: an assessment of the 
'North of England Tackling Illicit Tobacco for Better Health' Programme.

McNeill A(1), Iringe-Koko B(2), Bains M(3), Bauld L(4), Siggens G(5), Russell 
A(6).

Author information:
(1)Addictions Department, Institute of Psychiatry, UK Centre for Tobacco Control 
Studies, King's College London, London, UK.
(2)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, University College London, 
London, UK.
(3)Division of Epidemiology and Public Health, University of Nottingham, 
Nottingham, UK.
(4)Socio-Management, University of Stirling, UK Centre for Tobacco Control 
Studies, Stirling, UK.
(5)NEMS Market Research Ltd, Billingham, UK.
(6)Department of Anthropology, Durham University, Durham, UK.

BACKGROUND: Illicit tobacco (IT) undermines the effectiveness of tobacco control 
strategies. We assessed the implementation and impact of a new programme 
designed to reduce demand for, as well as supply of, IT, in the north of 
England, where IT was prevalent.
METHODS: 'Mixed methods' research was undertaken. Qualitative methods included 
stakeholder interviews (at outset and 1 year later) and ethnographic research. 
Indicators reflecting those supply and demand issues for which data were 
available were identified and monitored, including relevant items on two 
cross-sectional surveys carried out in 2009 and 2011 with over 4000 individuals 
from which a social marketing campaign was also developed. IT reports to two 
existing hotlines, promoted through the programme, were assessed.
RESULTS: Initially, concerns abounded about the different philosophies and ways 
of working of local and national enforcement and health agencies, but these were 
much reduced at follow-up. A protocol was developed which greatly facilitated 
the flow of intelligence about IT supply. A social marketing campaign was 
developed highlighting two messages: IT makes it easier for children to start 
smoking and brings crime into the community, thereby avoiding misleading 
messages about relative harms of illicit and licit tobacco. Public and 
stakeholder awareness of IT increased as did calls to both hotlines.
CONCLUSIONS: A partnership of agencies, with competing values, was established 
to tackle IT, a complex public health issue and, inter alia, implemented a 
social marketing campaign using novel messages. This improved the flow of 
intelligence about the supply of IT and increased awareness of IT.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not 
already granted under a licence) please go to 
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

DOI: 10.1136/tobaccocontrol-2013-050957
PMCID: PMC4078700
PMID: 23958644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1054. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2013 Aug 20;(8):CD004677. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD004677.pub3.

Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) for autism spectrum disorders 
(ASD).

Williams K(1), Brignell A, Randall M, Silove N, Hazell P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics, University of Melbourne, The Royal Children's 
Hospital, 50 Flemington Rd, Parkville, Victoria, Australia, 3052.

Update of
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2010;(8):CD004677.

BACKGROUND: Autism spectrum disorders (ASD) are characterised by abnormalities 
in social interaction and communication skills, as well as stereotypic 
behaviours and restricted activities and interests. Selective serotonin reuptake 
inhibitors (SSRIs) are prescribed for the treatment of conditions often comorbid 
with ASD such as depression, anxiety and obsessive-compulsive behaviours.
OBJECTIVES: To determine if treatment with an SSRI:1. improves the core features 
of autism (social interaction, communication and behavioural problems);2. 
improves other non-core aspects of behaviour or function such as self-injurious 
behaviour;3. improves the quality of life of adults or children and their 
carers;4. has short- and long-term effects on outcome;5. causes harm.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched the following databases up until March 2013: 
CENTRAL, Ovid MEDLINE, Embase, CINAHL, PsycINFO, ERIC and Sociological 
Abstracts. We also searched ClinicalTrials.gov and the International Clinical 
Trials Registry Platform (ICTRP). This was supplemented by searching reference 
lists and contacting known experts in the field.
SELECTION CRITERIA: Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) of any dose of oral SSRI 
compared with placebo, in people with ASD.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two authors independently selected studies for 
inclusion, extracted data and appraised each study's risk of bias.
MAIN RESULTS: Nine RCTs with a total of 320 participants were included. Four 
SSRIs were evaluated: fluoxetine (three studies), fluvoxamine (two studies), 
fenfluramine (two studies) and citalopram (two studies). Five studies included 
only children and four studies included only adults. Varying inclusion criteria 
were used with regard to diagnostic criteria and intelligence quotient of 
participants. Eighteen different outcome measures were reported. Although more 
than one study reported data for Clinical Global Impression (CGI) and 
obsessive-compulsive behaviour (OCB), different tool types or components of 
these outcomes were used in each study. As such, data were unsuitable for 
meta-analysis, except for one outcome (proportion improvement). One large, 
high-quality study in children showed no evidence of positive effect of 
citalopram. Three small studies in adults showed positive outcomes for CGI and 
OCB; one study showed improvements in aggression, and another in anxiety.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: There is no evidence of effect of SSRIs in children and 
emerging evidence of harm. There is limited evidence of the effectiveness of 
SSRIs in adults from small studies in which risk of bias is unclear.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD004677.pub3
PMID: 23959778 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1055. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2013 Sep 3;110(36):E3435-44. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.1302581110. Epub 2013 Aug 19.

Two distinct forms of functional lateralization in the human brain.

Gotts SJ(1), Jo HJ, Wallace GL, Saad ZS, Cox RW, Martin A.

Author information:
(1)Section on Cognitive Neuropsychology, Laboratory of Brain and Cognition, and 
Scientific and Statistical Computing Core, National Institute of Mental Health, 
National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.

The hemispheric lateralization of certain faculties in the human brain has long 
been held to be beneficial for functioning. However, quantitative relationships 
between the degree of lateralization in particular brain regions and the level 
of functioning have yet to be established. Here we demonstrate that two distinct 
forms of functional lateralization are present in the left vs. the right 
cerebral hemisphere, with the left hemisphere showing a preference to interact 
more exclusively with itself, particularly for cortical regions involved in 
language and fine motor coordination. In contrast, right-hemisphere cortical 
regions involved in visuospatial and attentional processing interact in a more 
integrative fashion with both hemispheres. The degree of lateralization present 
in these distinct systems selectively predicted behavioral measures of verbal 
and visuospatial ability, providing direct evidence that lateralization is 
associated with enhanced cognitive ability.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1302581110
PMCID: PMC3767540
PMID: 23959883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


1056. Springerplus. 2013 Jul 15;2(1):315. doi: 10.1186/2193-1801-2-315. eCollection 
2013.

Gravity inversion of a fault by Particle swarm optimization (PSO).

Toushmalani R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Computer, Faculty of engineering, Kangavar Branch, Islamic Azad 
University, Kangavar, Iran.

Particle swarm optimization is a heuristic global optimization method and also 
an optimization algorithm, which is based on swarm intelligence. It comes from 
the research on the bird and fish flock movement behavior. In this paper we 
introduce and use this method in gravity inverse problem. We discuss the 
solution for the inverse problem of determining the shape of a fault whose 
gravity anomaly is known. Application of the proposed algorithm to this problem 
has proven its capability to deal with difficult optimization problems. The 
technique proved to work efficiently when tested to a number of models.

DOI: 10.1186/2193-1801-2-315
PMCID: PMC3724977
PMID: 23961391


1057. Res Dev Disabil. 2013 Oct;34(10):3526-35. doi: 10.1016/j.ridd.2013.07.010. Epub 
2013 Aug 17.

Development of a Mandarin Expressive and Receptive Vocabulary Test for children 
using cochlear implants.

Lu X(1), Wong LL, Wong AM, Xi X.

Author information:
(1)Division of Speech and Hearing Sciences, The University of Hong Kong, 5th 
Floor, Prince Philip Dental Hospital, 34 Hospital Road, Hong Kong, China; 
Clinical Hearing Sciences (CHearS) Laboratory, The University of Hong Kong, 5th 
Floor, Prince Philip Dental Hospital, 34 Hospital Road, Hong Kong, China. 
Electronic address: joyce-xpan@hotmail.com.

Cochlear implants (CIs) provide children with profound hearing loss access to 
sounds and speech. Research on the effects of CI on speech and language 
development in mainland China is scarce due to the lack of standardized tests. 
This study aims at developing a vocabulary measure, the Mandarin Expressive and 
Receptive Vocabulary Test (MERVT), for pre-school children with CIs. Using 
responses from 102 normal-hearing preschool children, the initial vocabulary set 
was subjected to analyses to identify items with appropriate levels of 
difficulty and discrimination. Norms on 245 normal-hearing children aged 1;6 to 
3;11 were later collected based on the final set of the items. Evaluation of the 
test's psychometric properties revealed good internal consistency. Significant 
correlations between the total MERVT scores and the Gesell Developmental Scale 
scores, between the MERVT expressive and receptive subtest scores and the total 
scores, and the gradual increase in MERVT scores with age, provided evidence of 
construct validity. Results from 29 children with CIs were also examined for 
evidence of the MERVT's construct validity. There was a significant correlation 
between these children's MERVT scores and their scores from an intelligence 
test. The MERVT scores increased with an increase in the duration of CI use and 
in chronological age. With good reliability and strong validity, the test is 
recommended for use in the monitoring of language development in children with 
CI.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ridd.2013.07.010
PMID: 23962600 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1058. Res Dev Disabil. 2013 Oct;34(10):3576-82. doi: 10.1016/j.ridd.2013.07.004. Epub 
2013 Aug 22.

The Self- and Other-Deception Questionnaires-Intellectual Disabilities (SDQ-ID 
and ODQ-ID): component analysis and reliability.

Jobson L(1), Stanbury A, Langdon PE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychological Sciences, Norwich Medical School, University of 
East Anglia and MRC Cognition and Brain Sciences Unit, Cambridge, UK.

The objectives of this research were to: (1) investigate the component structure 
and psychometric properties of the Self- and Other-Deception 
Questionnaires-Intellectual Disabilities (SDQ-ID and ODQ-ID), (2) examine the 
relationship between social desirability and IQ, and (3) compare social 
desirability scores of those with intellectual disabilities (IDs) and a history 
of criminal offending to the social desirability scores of participants with IDs 
and those without IDs and no such history, controlling for general intellectual 
functioning. Men with mild to borderline IDs detained within medium secure 
inpatient forensic mental health services (N=40) completed the SDQ-ID and ODQ-ID 
at Time 1 and then two-weeks later at Time 2. Data for the men with and without 
IDs and no known criminal offending history were taken from a previous study 
(N=60). Following exploratory Principal Components Analysis, the number of 
questionnaire items were reduced, and a two-factor structure was found for the 
SDQ-ID which was labelled: (1) Positive Self Representation and (2) Denial of 
Intrusive Thoughts. A two-factor structure was also found for the ODQ-ID and 
these two factors were labelled: (1) Denial of Negative Social Interaction and 
(2) Untrustworthiness. Both the SDQ-ID and ODQ-ID had acceptable internal 
consistency and test-retest reliability. Fifteen percent of the variance in 
SDQ-ID scores was explained by Full Scale IQ, while 21% of the variance in 
ODQ-ID scores was explained by Full Scale IQ. Between group comparisons 
controlling for intelligence did not yield any significant differences. The 
shortened SDQ-ID and ODQ-ID have promising psychometric properties, and their 
component structures appear robust. Differences between men with and without IDs 
on these two measures of social desirability can be accounted for by differences 
in general intellectual functioning.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ridd.2013.07.004
PMID: 23962604 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1059. Clin Rehabil. 2014 Mar;28(3):221-31. doi: 10.1177/0269215513498609. Epub 2013 
Aug 20.

The influence of sprint interval training on body composition, physical and 
metabolic fitness in adolescents and young adults with intellectual disability: 
a randomized controlled trial.

Boer PH(1), Meeus M, Terblanche E, Rombaut L, Wandele ID, Hermans L, Gysel T, 
Ruige J, Calders P.

Author information:
(1)1Department of Sport Science, North West University, Mafikeng, South Africa.

OBJECTIVE: In this study we evaluated the effect of sprint interval training on 
metabolic and physical fitness in adolescents and young adults with intellectual 
disabilities when compared with continuous aerobic training and no training 
(control).
METHODS: Fifty-four persons with intellectual disabilities (age: 17 (3.0), body 
mass index: 27.7 (3.7), intelligence quotient: 59 (8.6)) were matched based on 
age, gender and intelligence quotient between sprint interval training (n = 17), 
continuous aerobic training (n = 15) and control (n = 14). Sprint interval 
training was composed of three blocks of 10 minutes at ventilatory threshold 
(blocks 1 and 3: 10 sprint bouts of 15 seconds, followed by 45 seconds relative 
rest; block 2: continuous training) twice a week for 15 weeks. Continuous 
aerobic training was composed of three blocks of 10 minutes continuous training. 
After eight weeks, intensity was increased to 110% of ventilatory threshold. The 
control group did not participate in supervised exercise training. Before and 
after the training period, body composition, physical and metabolic fitness were 
evaluated.
RESULTS: Sprint interval training showed a significant positive evolution for 
waist circumference, fat%, systolic blood pressure, lipid profile, fasting 
insulin, homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance, peak VO2, peak 
Watt, ventilatory threshold, 6-minute walk distance and muscle fatigue 
resistance when compared with no training (P < 0.01). The sprint interval 
training group demonstrated significant improvements for fat%, systolic blood 
pressure, low-density lipoprotein, fasting insulin, peak VO2 and peak power and 
ventilatory threshold (P < 0.01) when compared with continuous aerobic training.
CONCLUSION: In this study we could observe that sprint interval training has 
stronger beneficial effects on body composition, physical fitness and metabolic 
fitness compared with control. Compared with continuous aerobic training, sprint 
interval training seems to result in better outcome.

DOI: 10.1177/0269215513498609
PMID: 23963438 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1060. J Clin Immunol. 2013 Oct;33(7):1175-84. doi: 10.1007/s10875-013-9932-z. Epub 
2013 Aug 21.

Neurobehavioral profiles in individuals with hyperimmunoglobulin E Syndrome 
(HIES) and brain white matter hyperintensities.

Martin S(1), Wolters P, Billings N, Toledo-Tamula MA, Hammoud DA, Welch P, 
Darnell D, Holland SM, Freeman AF.

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Oncology Branch, National Cancer Institute, Bethesda, MD, 20892, 
USA, martins@mail.nih.gov.

PURPOSE: Individuals with hyperimmunoglobulin E Syndrome (HIES) have central 
nervous system abnormalities, including focal white matter hyperintensities 
(WMH), or unidentified bright objects. This cross-sectional study aimed to 
describe the cognitive and emotional functioning and quality of life of people 
with HIES. We also sought to explore the relationship between cognitive 
functioning and WMHs in this population.
METHODS: Twenty-nine individuals (13 males) with autosomal-dominant HIES (mean 
age = 35.1 years, range 16-55) were administered a comprehensive psychological 
assessment as part of a natural history protocol. The assessment included 
measures of global cognitive functioning (Wechsler Adult Intelligence 
Scale-III), memory (California Verbal Learning Test-II, Wechsler Memory 
Scale-III), executive skills (Delis Kaplan Executive Function System), and 
attention (Test of Everyday Attention). Emotional symptoms and quality of life 
also were assessed.
RESULTS: All mean cognitive scores were within normal limits. Mean scores on 
memory and executive functioning measures were significantly lower than Full 
Scale IQ scores (ps < .05). Substantial percentages of patients self-reported 
executive skills to be in the clinical range. Patients with fewer (1-20) versus 
more (21+) WMHs scored significantly better on measures of global cognitive 
skills, visual-perceptual skills, and working memory. Mean scores on emotional 
symptom and quality of life measures were in the average range and unrelated to 
WMHs.
CONCLUSIONS: Global cognitive functioning was average to high average in our 
sample of individuals with HIES. However, focal brain lesions were associated 
with lower scores in specific domains. Emotional functioning and quality of life 
are within normal limits in this sample.

DOI: 10.1007/s10875-013-9932-z
PMCID: PMC5467306
PMID: 23963745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1061. Psychol Sci. 2013 Oct;24(10):1906-17. doi: 10.1177/0956797613479974. Epub 2013 
Aug 20.

Physically developed and exploratory young infants contribute to their own 
long-term academic achievement.

Bornstein MH(1), Hahn CS, Suwalsky JT.

Author information:
(1)Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human 
Development.

A developmental cascade defines a longitudinal relation in which one 
psychological characteristic uniquely affects another psychological 
characteristic later in time, separately from other intrapersonal and 
extrapersonal factors. Here, we report results of a large-scale (N = 374), 
normative, prospective, 14-year longitudinal, multivariate, multisource, 
controlled study of a developmental cascade from infant motor-exploratory 
competence at 5 months to adolescent academic achievement at 14 years, through 
conceptually related and age-appropriate measures of psychometric intelligence 
at 4 and 10 years and academic achievement at 10 years. This developmental 
cascade applied equally to girls and boys and was independent of children's 
behavioral adjustment and social competence; mothers' supportive caregiving, 
verbal intelligence, education, and parenting knowledge; and the material home 
environment. Infants who were more motorically mature and who explored more 
actively at 5 months of age achieved higher academic levels as 14-year-olds.

DOI: 10.1177/0956797613479974
PMCID: PMC4151610
PMID: 23964000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting Interests The authors 
declared that they had no conflicts of interest with respect to their authorship 
or the publication of this article.


1062. Front Psychol. 2013 Aug 12;4:513. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2013.00513. eCollection 
2013.

Simpson's paradox in psychological science: a practical guide.

Kievit RA(1), Frankenhuis WE, Waldorp LJ, Borsboom D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychological Methods, University of Amsterdam Amsterdam, 
Netherlands ; Medical Research Council - Cognition and Brain Sciences Unit 
Cambridge, UK.

The direction of an association at the population-level may be reversed within 
the subgroups comprising that population-a striking observation called Simpson's 
paradox. When facing this pattern, psychologists often view it as anomalous. 
Here, we argue that Simpson's paradox is more common than conventionally 
thought, and typically results in incorrect interpretations-potentially with 
harmful consequences. We support this claim by reviewing results from cognitive 
neuroscience, behavior genetics, clinical psychology, personality psychology, 
educational psychology, intelligence research, and simulation studies. We show 
that Simpson's paradox is most likely to occur when inferences are drawn across 
different levels of explanation (e.g., from populations to subgroups, or 
subgroups to individuals). We propose a set of statistical markers indicative of 
the paradox, and offer psychometric solutions for dealing with the paradox when 
encountered-including a toolbox in R for detecting Simpson's paradox. We show 
that explicit modeling of situations in which the paradox might occur not only 
prevents incorrect interpretations of data, but also results in a deeper 
understanding of what data tell us about the world.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2013.00513
PMCID: PMC3740239
PMID: 23964259


1063. Emerg Infect Dis. 2013;19(9):1428-36. doi: 10.3201/eid1909.130201.

Underreporting of viral encephalitis and viral meningitis, Ireland, 2005-2008.

Kelly TA(1), O'Lorcain P, Moran J, Garvey P, McKeown P, Connell J, Cotter S.

Author information:
(1)Health Services Executive–Health Protection Surveillance Centre, Dublin, 
Ireland. taraanne.kelly@hse.ie

Viral encephalitis (VE) and viral meningitis (VM) have been notifiable 
infectious diseases under surveillance in the Republic of Ireland since 1981. 
Laboratories have reported confirmed cases by detection of viral nucleic acid in 
cerebrospinal fluid since 2004. To determine the prevalence of these diseases in 
Ireland during 2005-2008, we analyzed 3 data sources: Hospital In-patient 
Enquiry data (from hospitalized following patients discharge) accessed through 
Health Intelligence Ireland, laboratory confirmations from the National Virus 
Reference Laboratory, and events from the Computerised Infectious Disease 
Reporting surveillance system. We found that the national surveillance system 
underestimates the incidence of these diseases in Ireland with a 10-fold higher 
VE hospitalization rate and 3-fold higher VM hospitalization rate than the 
reporting rate. Herpesviruses were responsible for most specified VE and 
enteroviruses for most specified VM from all 3 sources. Recommendations from 
this study have been implemented to improve the surveillance of these diseases 
in Ireland.

DOI: 10.3201/eid1909.130201
PMCID: PMC3810922
PMID: 23965781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1064. Front Psychol. 2013 Aug 15;4:531. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2013.00531. eCollection 
2013.

Count on dopamine: influences of COMT polymorphisms on numerical cognition.

Júlio-Costa A(1), Antunes AM, Lopes-Silva JB, Moreira BC, Vianna GS, Wood G, 
Carvalho MR, Haase VG.

Author information:
(1)Laboratório de Neuropsicologia do Desenvolvimento, Departamento de 
Psicologia, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais Belo Horizonte, Brazil ; 
Programa de Pós-graduação em Neurociências, Instituto de Ciências Biológicas, 
Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais Belo Horizonte, Brazil.

Catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) is an enzyme that is particularly important 
for the metabolism of dopamine. Functional polymorphisms of COMT have been 
implicated in working memory and numerical cognition. This is an exploratory 
study that aims at investigating associations between COMT polymorphisms, 
working memory, and numerical cognition. Elementary school children from 2th to 
6th grades were divided into two groups according to their COMT val158met 
polymorphism [homozygous for valine allele (n = 61) vs. heterozygous plus 
methionine homozygous children or met+ group (n = 94)]. Both groups were matched 
for age and intelligence. Working memory was assessed through digit span and 
Corsi blocks. Symbolic numerical processing was assessed through transcoding and 
single-digit word problem tasks. Non-symbolic magnitude comparison and 
estimation tasks were used to assess number sense. Between-group differences 
were found in symbolic and non-symbolic numerical tasks, but not in working 
memory tasks. Children in the met+ group showed better performance in all 
numerical tasks while val homozygous children presented slower development of 
non-symbolic magnitude representations. These results suggest COMT-related 
dopaminergic modulation may be related not only to working memory, as found in 
previous studies, but also to the development of magnitude processing and 
magnitude representations.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2013.00531
PMCID: PMC3744013
PMID: 23966969


1065. Zhonghua Nei Ke Za Zhi. 2013 Feb;52(2):144-50.

[A bibliometric investigation to research fronts of major sub-specialties in 
internal medicine].

[Article in Chinese]

Cui L(1), Shen XB, Fang L, Pan XW, Zhong XM, Gong X, Yang Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Informatics, China Medical University, Shenyang 110001, 
China. lcui@mail.cmu.edu.cn

OBJECTIVE: To outline the research fronts of ten major sub-specialties in 
internal medicine.
METHODS: Based on their impact factor scores and the proportion of the journals 
of 10 subspecialties (endocrinology & metabolism, cardiac & cardiovascular 
systems, hematology, infectious diseases, nephrology, gastroenterology & 
hepatology, respiratory system, rheumatology, critical care medicine, clinical 
neurology) in Journal Citation Report (JCR), and careful consulation of expert 
clinicians, we identified 50 journals. Their bibliographic records (including 
references) published in 2011 were downloaded, and the frequency of the 
references (citations) in each sub-specialty was counted and the highly cited 
records were extracted. We performed a clustering analysis according to the 
co-cited times among any pairs of the highly cited records. To tag each cluster 
of highly cited records, we browsed the titles and abstracts of all highly cited 
records in the same cluster, and concluded the main topics of each cluster. 
Finally, we extracted the current published papers devoted to particular cluster 
by some clustering analysis indicators. The clusters of highly cited records 
were considered as the intelligence base, and the main topics in current papers 
which citing these highly cited papers were considered as research fronts.
RESULTS: Totally 50 journals on 10 sub-specialties in internal medicine were 
identified. A total of 202 highly cited papers, 38 clusters (knowledge bases) , 
and 152 corresponding current citing papers presenting the research fronts were 
selected.
CONCLUSIONS: We confirm and present research fronts in 10 major sub-specialties 
of internal medicine. This study provides a synchronic structure of contemporary 
research activities in internal medicine sub-specialties.

PMID: 23967610 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1066. Epilepsy Res. 2013 Oct;106(3):423-32. doi: 10.1016/j.eplepsyres.2013.07.009. 
Epub 2013 Aug 6.

Stereotactic radiofrequency amygdalohippocampectomy: two years of good 
neuropsychological outcomes.

Malikova H(1), Kramska L, Vojtech Z, Lukavsky J, Liscak R.

Author information:
(1)Epilepsy Center Na Homolce Hospital, Department of Radiology, Roentgenova 2, 
150 00 Prague 5, Czech Republic. Electronic address: hana.malikova@homolka.cz.

PURPOSE: To provide two-year seizure and neuropsychological outcomes in patients 
treated by stereotactic radiofrequency amygdalohippocampectomy (SAHE), an 
alternative, minimally invasive method for the treatment of mesial temporal lobe 
epilepsy (MTLE).
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Thirty-seven MTLE patients treated by SAHE (26 left-sided, 
11 right-sided) were included. Patients underwent neuropsychological evaluation 
by the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Revised and the Wechsler Memory 
Scale-Revised preoperatively, 1 year and 2 years after SAHE.
RESULTS: Two years after SAHE twenty-eight (75.5%) patients were assessed as 
Engel Class I and seven (18.9%) patients as Engel Class II. In two patients 
(5.4%) treatment failed, one of them was classified as Class III and one as 
Class IV. Irrespective of the laterality of the procedure, the group improved 
significantly in Global and Verbal Memory Quotients, Attention, Delayed Recall, 
Semantic Long-term memory subtest and Working Memory. Additionally, increases in 
Full-scale, Verbal and Visual Intelligence Quotients were detected on the group 
level.
CONCLUSION: In the present study we report good seizure control and 
neuropsychological outcomes after SAHE in our patients. We hypothesize that good 
neuropsychological results were achieved by the incomplete destruction of target 
structures, sparing the lateral temporal neocortex, and also partially by 
practice effect. Treatment failures in seizure control may be attributed to 
larger epileptogenic zones.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eplepsyres.2013.07.009
PMID: 23968819 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1067. Curr Biol. 2013 Aug 19;23(16):R673-6. doi: 10.1016/j.cub.2013.07.021.

Intelligence.

Deary IJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, Department of 
Psychology, University of Edinburgh, 7 George Square, Edinburgh EH8 9JZ, 
Scotland, UK. i.deary@ed.ac.uk

Some people are cleverer than others. I think it would be a good thing if more 
biologists began with that observation as the starting point for their research. 
Why? Because it is a prominent and consistent way in which people differ from 
each other; because the measurements we make of people's cleverness produce 
scores that are correlated with important life outcomes; because it is 
interesting to discover the mechanisms that produce these individual 
differences; and because understanding these mechanisms might help to ameliorate 
those states in which cognitive function is low or declining.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cub.2013.07.021
PMID: 23968918 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1068. Ann Epidemiol. 2013 Oct;23(10):652-61. doi: 10.1016/j.annepidem.2013.07.001. 
Epub 2013 Aug 19.

Is exposure to secondhand smoke associated with cognitive parameters of children 
and adolescents?--a systematic literature review.

Chen R(1), Clifford A, Lang L, Anstey KJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Health and Social Care Research, King's College London, London, 
UK. Electronic address: ruoling.chen@kcl.ac.uk.

PURPOSE: Despite the known association of second hand smoke (SHS) with increased 
risk of ill health and mortality, the effects of SHS exposure on cognitive 
functioning in children and adolescents are unclear. Through a critical review 
of the literature we sought to determine whether a relationship exists between 
these variables.
METHODS: The authors systematically reviewed articles (dated 1989-2012) that 
investigated the association between SHS exposure (including in utero due to SHS 
exposure by pregnant women) and performance on neurocognitive and academic 
tests. Eligible studies were identified from searches of Web of Knowledge, 
MEDLINE, Science Direct, Google Scholar, CINAHL, EMBASE, Zetoc, and 
Clinicaltrials.gov.
RESULTS: Fifteen articles were identified, of which 12 showed inverse 
relationships between SHS and cognitive parameters. Prenatal SHS exposure was 
inversely associated with neurodevelopmental outcomes in young children, whereas 
postnatal SHS exposure was associated with poor academic achievement and 
neurocognitive performance in older children and adolescents. Furthermore, SHS 
exposure was associated with an increased risk of neurodevelopmental delay.
CONCLUSIONS: Recommendations should be made to the public to avoid sources of 
SHS and future research should investigate interactions between SHS exposure and 
other risk factors for delayed neurodevelopment and poor cognitive performance.

Copyright © 2013 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.annepidem.2013.07.001
PMID: 23969303 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1069. Int J STD AIDS. 2013 May;24(5):351-5. doi: 10.1177/0956462412472827. Epub 2013 
Jun 14.

Neurocognitive impairment in HIV-infected individuals with previous syphilis.

Marra CM(1), Deutsch R, Collier AC, Morgello S, Letendre S, Clifford D, Gelman 
B, McArthur J, McCutchan JA, Simpson DM, Duarte NA, Heaton RK, Grant I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA. 
cmarra@u.washington.edu

Cognitive impairment is common in HIV-infected individuals, as is syphilis. 
Treponema pallidum, the bacterium that causes syphilis, invades the central 
nervous system early in disease. We hypothesized that HIV-infected patients with 
a history of syphilis or neurosyphilis would have more cognitive impairment than 
HIV-infected individuals without these infections. Eighty-two of 1574 enrollees 
in CHARTER, a prospective, observational study, had reactive serum rapid plasma 
reagin (RPR) tests. They were matched to 84 controls with non-reactive RPR by 
age, gender, ethnicity and HIV risk factor. Participants underwent comprehensive 
neuropsychological (NP) evaluations. RPR results were confirmed and serum 
fluorescent treponemal antibody absorption (FTA-ABS) test reactivity determined 
at a central laboratory. Sera from 101 of 166 participants were FTA-ABS 
reactive, indicating past or current syphilis. Among the 136 individuals without 
confounding conditions, compared with patients who had never had syphilis, those 
with prior syphilis had a greater number of impaired NP test domains (1.90 SD 
[1.77] versus 1.25 [1.52], P = 0.03), a higher global deficit score (0.47 [0.46] 
versus 0.31 [0.33], P = 0.03), and more were impaired in the NP learning domain 
(36 [42.9%] of 84 versus 13 [25.0%] of 52, P = 0.04). These effects of prior 
syphilis remained after controlling for education and premorbid intelligence.

DOI: 10.1177/0956462412472827
PMCID: PMC4560461
PMID: 23970701 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest: None declared.


1070. Soc Sci Med. 2013 Dec;99:119-26. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2013.04.034. Epub 2013 
Jun 5.

A case for critical ethnography: rethinking the early years of the AIDS epidemic 
in South Africa.

Fassin D(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton, USA. Electronic address: 
dfassin@ias.edu.

The epidemic of AIDS in South Africa has been characterized not only by its 
rapid progression but also its impassioned controversies. Retrospectively 
examining a long-term anthropological project and discussing some reactions it 
elicited, the paper proposes a defense and illustration of a critical 
ethnography at three moments of the research. Ethnography is first discussed as 
fieldworks, proposing an alternative to the horizontal multi-sited approach via 
a vertical multi-layered method using various scales and locations, and thus 
connecting the disease endured by patients in townships and former homelands 
with the heated debates in scientific and political forums: this procedure 
substitutes a political economy of the disease for its cultural and behavioral 
interpretations. Ethnography is then discussed as writing, suggesting 
acknowledgment of the social intelligence of the agents as well as the need for 
a scientific distance: this principle allows the articulation of the objective 
historical condition of the individuals and their subjective experience of 
history, both revealed in the development of the epidemic. Ultimately 
ethnography is considered from the perspective of its afterlife, that is, the 
continuous process of its translation by readers and commentators, on the one 
hand, by the author trying to reach beyond the boundaries of the academic realm, 
on the other, the work of anthropology appearing as a living object open to 
public conversation and consequently a resource for knowledge and action.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2013.04.034
PMID: 23973002 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1071. Brain Dev. 2014 Jun;36(6):516-22. doi: 10.1016/j.braindev.2013.07.006. Epub 2013 
Aug 20.

Speech intonation in children with autism spectrum disorder.

Nakai Y(1), Takashima R(2), Takiguchi T(2), Takada S(3).

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Health Sciences, Kobe University, Kobe, Japan; Department 
of Nursing Childcare, Kawasaki College of Allied Health Professions, Kurashiki, 
Japan. Electronic address: nakai@jc.kawasaki-m.ac.jp.
(2)Graduate School of System Informatics, Kobe University, Kobe, Japan.
(3)Graduate School of Health Sciences, Kobe University, Kobe, Japan.

OBJECTIVE: The prosody of children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) has 
several abnormal features. We assessed the speech tone of children with ASD and 
of children with typical development (TD) by using a new quantitative acoustic 
analysis.
METHODS: Our study participants consisted of 63 children (26 with ASD and 37 
with TD). The participants were divided into 4 groups based on their 
developmental features and age. We assessed the variety of the fundamental 
frequency (F0) pattern quantitatively, using pitch coefficient of variation 
(CV), considering the different F0 mean for each word.
RESULTS: (1) No significant difference was observed between the ASD and TD group 
at pre-school age. However, the TD group exhibited significantly greater pitch 
CV than the ASD group at school age. (2) In pitch CV, range and standard 
deviation of the whole speech of each participant, no significant differences 
were observed between the type of participants and age. (3) No significant 
correlation was found between the pitch CV of each word and the Japanese Autism 
Screening Questionnaire total score, or between the pitch CV of each word and 
the intelligence quotient levels in the ASD group. A significant correlation was 
observed between the pitch CV of each word and social reciprocal interaction 
score.
CONCLUSIONS: We assessed the speech tone of children with ASD by using a new 
quantitative method. Monotonous speech in school-aged children with ASD was 
detected. The extent of monotonous speech was related to the extent of social 
reciprocal interaction in children with ASD.

Copyright © 2013 The Japanese Society of Child Neurology. Published by Elsevier 
B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.braindev.2013.07.006
PMID: 23973369 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1072. Epilepsy Behav. 2013 Oct;29(1):166-71. doi: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2013.07.010. Epub 
2013 Aug 22.

Determinants of intelligence in childhood-onset epilepsy: a single-center study.

Park J(1), Yum MS, Choi HW, Kim EH, Kim HW, Ko TS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Asan Medical Center Children's Hospital, University 
of Ulsan College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.

The purpose of this study was to quantify the intelligence of children with 
epilepsy and to determine the clinical factors associated with intellectual 
impairment. The medical records of patients diagnosed with childhood-onset 
epilepsy at a single tertiary medical center in Korea between 2006 and 2011 were 
retrospectively reviewed. The Korean Education Development Institute-Wechsler 
Intelligence Scale for Children or Korean Wechsler Intelligence Scale for adults 
was used to quantify the level of intelligence. Age at seizure onset, etiology, 
epilepsy duration, number of seizures in the last year, use of antiepileptic 
drugs, EEG/MRI findings, and epilepsy classification were recorded. The 
association between clinical factors and the intelligence was determined using 
logistic regression. Three hundred and twenty-two patients were included in the 
analysis. One hundred and seventy-six (54.7%) patients had low intelligence 
(intelligence quotient [IQ]<80) with 18 (5.6%) defined as borderline mental 
retardation (IQ 70-79), 47 (14.6%) as mild mental retardation (IQ 60-69), and 
111 (34.5%) as moderate-to-severe mental retardation (IQ<60). Epilepsy duration, 
number of seizures in the last year, and epilepsy classification were 
significantly associated with low intelligence in multivariate logistic 
regression (p<0.05). However, when analyzed according to etiology, these factors 
were not associated with low intelligence in children with idiopathic epilepsy. 
The most important factors associated with low intelligence in childhood-onset 
epilepsy are the underlying etiology and, in cryptogenic and symptomatic 
epilepsy, seizure burden. The results of this study underscore the importance of 
seizure control to alleviate the harmful impact of epilepsy on cognition.

© 2013.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2013.07.010
PMID: 23973641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1073. Environ Monit Assess. 2014 Jan;186(1):35-45. doi: 10.1007/s10661-013-3353-6. 
Epub 2013 Aug 23.

Modeling of nitrate concentration in groundwater using artificial intelligence 
approach--a case study of Gaza coastal aquifer.

Alagha JS(1), Said MA, Mogheir Y.

Author information:
(1)School of Civil Engineering, Universiti Sains Malaysia, 14300, Nibong Tebal, 
Pulau Pinang, Malaysia.

Nitrate concentration in groundwater is influenced by complex and interrelated 
variables, leading to great difficulty during the modeling process. The 
objectives of this study are (1) to evaluate the performance of two artificial 
intelligence (AI) techniques, namely artificial neural networks and support 
vector machine, in modeling groundwater nitrate concentration using scant input 
data, as well as (2) to assess the effect of data clustering as a pre-modeling 
technique on the developed models' performance. The AI models were developed 
using data from 22 municipal wells of the Gaza coastal aquifer in Palestine from 
2000 to 2010. Results indicated high simulation performance, with the 
correlation coefficient and the mean average percentage error of the best model 
reaching 0.996 and 7 %, respectively. The variables that strongly influenced 
groundwater nitrate concentration were previous nitrate concentration, 
groundwater recharge, and on-ground nitrogen load of each land use land cover 
category in the well's vicinity. The results also demonstrated the merit of 
performing clustering of input data prior to the application of AI models. With 
their high performance and simplicity, the developed AI models can be 
effectively utilized to assess the effects of future management scenarios on 
groundwater nitrate concentration, leading to more reasonable groundwater 
resources management and decision-making.

DOI: 10.1007/s10661-013-3353-6
PMID: 23974533 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1074. Brain Topogr. 2014 Mar;27(2):271-8. doi: 10.1007/s10548-013-0309-7. Epub 2013 
Aug 22.

Electrophysiological correlates of connotative meaning in healthy children.

Skrandies W(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Physiology, Justus-Liebig University, Aulweg 129, 35392, 
Giessen, Germany, wolfgang.skrandies@physiologie.med.uni-giessen.de.

The affective, connotative meaning of words can be statistically quantified by 
the semantic differential technique. Words that are located clearly on one of 
the three dimensions called "Evaluation", "Potency", and "Activity" were used as 
visual stimuli in a topographic event related potential study (ERP). Stimuli had 
been statistically defined in a group of 249 children (Skrandies, Jpn Psychol 
Res 53: 65-76, 2011). We investigated electrical brain activity in 19 healthy 
children with normal intelligence and reading skills between 11 and 15 years of 
age. Words that belonged to different semantic classes were presented at random 
on a monitor, and EEG was measured from 30 channels. Evoked potentials were 
computed offline for each semantic class. In the ERP data we observed 
significant effects of word class on component latency, field strength and 
topography. Similar as with adult subjects such effects occurred at small 
latency of about 115 ms after word presentation. The language-evoked components 
in children were similar but not identical to those reported previously for 
various groups of adults. Our data show that visually evoked brain activity is 
modulated by connotative meaning of the stimuli at early processing stages not 
only in adults but also in children.

DOI: 10.1007/s10548-013-0309-7
PMID: 23974725 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1075. J Med Philos. 2013 Oct;38(5):501-19. doi: 10.1093/jmp/jht040. Epub 2013 Aug 24.

The role of emotions in clinical reasoning and decision making.

Marcum JA(1).

Author information:
(1)*Department of Philosophy, Baylor University, Waco, TX 76798, USA. 
James_Marcum@baylor.edu.

What role, if any, should emotions play in clinical reasoning and decision 
making? Traditionally, emotions have been excluded from clinical reasoning and 
decision making, but with recent advances in cognitive neuropsychology they are 
now considered an important component of them. Today, cognition is thought to be 
a set of complex processes relying on multiple types of intelligences. The role 
of mathematical logic (hypothetico-deductive thinking) or verbal linguistic 
intelligence in cognition, for example, is well documented and accepted; 
however, the role of emotional intelligence has received less 
attention-especially because its nature and function are not well understood. In 
this paper, I argue for the inclusion of emotions in clinical reasoning and 
decision making. To that end, developments in contemporary cognitive 
neuropsychology are initially examined and analyzed, followed by a review of the 
medical literature discussing the role of emotions in clinical practice. Next, a 
published clinical case is reconstructed and used to illustrate the recognition 
and regulation of emotions played during a series of clinical consultations, 
which resulted in a positive medical outcome. The paper's main thesis is that 
emotions, particularly in terms of emotional intelligence as a practical form of 
intelligence, afford clinical practitioners a robust cognitive resource for 
providing quality medical care.

DOI: 10.1093/jmp/jht040
PMID: 23975905 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1076. Neuropsychiatr Dis Treat. 2013;9:1087-94. doi: 10.2147/NDT.S47287. Epub 2013 Aug 
9.

Executive dysfunction in children affected by obstructive sleep apnea syndrome: 
an observational study.

Esposito M(1), Antinolfi L, Gallai B, Parisi L, Roccella M, Marotta R, Lavano 
SM, Mazzotta G, Precenzano F, Carotenuto M.

Author information:
(1)Sleep Clinic for Developmental Age, Clinic of Child and Adolescent 
Neuropsychiatry, Department of Mental and Physical Health and Preventive 
Medicine, Second University of Naples, Naples, Italy.

INTRODUCTION: The role of sleep in cognitive processes can be considered clear 
and well established. Different reports have disclosed the association between 
sleep and cognition in adults and in children, as well as the impact of 
disturbed sleep on various aspects of neuropsychological functioning and 
behavior in children and adolescents. Behavioral and cognitive dysfunctions can 
also be considered as related to alterations in the executive functions (EF) 
system. In particular, the EF concept refers to self-regulatory cognitive 
processes that are associated with monitoring and controlling both thought and 
goal directed behaviors. The aim of the present study is to assess the impact of 
the obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS) on EF in a large sample of school 
aged children.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The study population comprised 79 children (51 males and 
28 females) aged 7-12 years (mean 9.14 ± 2.36 years) with OSAS and 92 healthy 
children (63 males and 29 females, mean age 9.08 ± 2.44 years). To identify the 
severity of OSAS, an overnight respiratory evaluation was performed. All 
subjects filled out the Italian version of the Modified Card Sorting Test to 
screen EFs. Moreover, to check the degree of subjective perceived daytime 
sleepiness, all subjects were administered the Pediatric Daytime Sleepiness 
Scale (PDSS).
RESULTS: No significant differences between the two study groups were found for 
age (P = 0.871), gender (P = 0.704), z-score of body mass index (P = 0.656), 
total intelligence quotient (P = 0.358), and PDSS scores (P = 0.232). The OSAS 
children showed a significantly higher rate of total errors (P < 0.001), 
perseverative errors (P < 0.001), nonperseverative errors (P < 0.001), 
percentage of total errors (P < 0.001), percentage of perseverative errors (P < 
0.001), and percentage of nonperseverative errors (P < 0.001). On the other 
hand, OSAS children showed a significant reduction in the number of completed 
categories (P = 0.036), total correct sorts (P = 0.001), and categorizing 
efficiency (P < 0.001). The Pearson's correlation analysis revealed a 
significant positive relationship between all error parameters and 
apnea-hypopnea index, oxygen desaturation index, and percentage of mean 
desaturation of O2 with a specular negative relationship between the error 
parameters and the mean oxygen saturation values, such as a significant negative 
relationship between apnea-hypopnea index, oxygen desaturation index, percent of 
mean desaturation of O2, and the number of completed categories.
CONCLUSION: Our study identified differences in the executive functioning of 
children affected by OSAS and is the first to identify a correlation between 
alteration in respiratory nocturnal parameters and EF that has not yet been 
reported in developmental age. These findings can be considered as the strength 
and novelty of the present report in a large pediatric population.

DOI: 10.2147/NDT.S47287
PMCID: PMC3747022
PMID: 23976855


1077. PLoS One. 2013 Aug 20;8(8):e71548. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0071548. 
eCollection 2013.

Infant feeding and school attainment in five cohorts from low- and middle-income 
countries.

Horta BL(1), Bas A, Bhargava SK, Fall CH, Feranil A, de Kadt J, Martorell R, 
Richter LM, Stein AD, Victora CG; COHORTS group.

Collaborators: Hallal PC, Barros FC, Gigante DP, Ramirez-Zea M, Sachdev HS, 
Adair L, Borja J, Dahly D, Desmond C, Ginsburg C, Mickelesfield L, Norris S, 
Stein A, Osmond C.

Author information:
(1)Post-Graduate Programme in Epidemiology, Universidade Federal de Pelotas, 
Pelotas, Brazil.

BACKGROUND: Performance in intelligence tests tends to be higher among 
individuals breastfed as infants, but little is known about the association 
between breastfeeding and achieved schooling. We assessed the association of 
infant feeding with school achievement in five cohorts from low- and 
middle-income countries. Unlike high-income country settings where most previous 
studies come from, breastfeeding is not positively associated with socioeconomic 
position in our cohorts, thus reducing the likelihood of a spurious positive 
association.
METHODOLOGY AND PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Participants included 10,082 young adults 
from five birth cohorts (Brazil, India, Guatemala, the Philippines, and South 
Africa). The exposures variables were whether the subject was ever breastfed, 
total duration of breastfeeding, and age at introduction of complementary foods. 
We adjusted the estimates for age at follow up, sex, maternal age, smoking 
during pregnancy, birthweight and socioeconomic position at birth. The key 
outcome was the highest grade achieved at school. In unadjusted analyses, the 
association between ever breastfeeding and schooling was positive in Brazil, 
inverse in the Philippines, and null in South Africa; in adjusted analyses, 
these associations were attenuated. In Brazil, schooling was highest among 
individuals breastfed for 3-12 months whereas in the Philippines duration of 
breastfeeding was inversely associated with schooling; and null associations 
were observed in South Africa and Guatemala. These associations were attenuated 
in adjusted models. Late introduction of solid foods was associated with lower 
schooling achievement in Brazil and South Africa.
CONCLUSION: Measures of breastfeeding are not consistently related to schooling 
achievement in contemporary cohorts of young adults in lower and middle-income 
countries.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0071548
PMCID: PMC3748078
PMID: 23977075 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


1078. BMC Psychiatry. 2013 Aug 27;13:215. doi: 10.1186/1471-244X-13-215.

Association between family environment and attention deficit hyperactivity 
disorder in children--mothers' and teachers' views.

Pires Tde O(1), da Silva CM, de Assis SG.

Author information:
(1)Latin-American Centre for Studies on Violence and Health (CLAVES), National 
School of Public Health, Oswaldo Cruz Foundation, Av, Brasil 4036 - sala 700, 
Manguinhos, 21040-361 Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil. thop100@hotmail.com.

BACKGROUND: To ascertain whether factors of the family environment and 
gestational period are associated with the appearance of ADHD in children, as 
reported by various different informants (mothers and teachers).
METHODS: This paper presents results from the dataset of a longitudinal study to 
evaluate behavioral problems among schoolchildren in São Gonçalo, Rio de Janeiro 
State, in 2005 and 2006. The cross-section considered for this paper comprises 
records of exposure factors and ADHD. In all, 370 schoolchildren of the public 
school system were assessed by 3-stage cluster sampling. The Child Behavior 
Checklist (CBCL) and the Teacher Report Form (TRF) were used to measure 
outcomes. The exposure factors examined were: profile of child and mother, 
variables relating to the family environment, and perinatal considerations. The 
questions were answered by mothers and teachers. A hierarchical logistic 
regression model was used.
RESULTS: Precariously functioning families, lack of social support for mothers, 
adverse life events and discord during pregnancy were the factors associated 
with mother-reported ADHD. When ADHD was reported by teachers, the variables 
selected were: Intelligence quotient (IQ) and sex, with children with low IQ 
scores and boys more likely to display the disorder.
CONCLUSIONS: Assessment of ADHD by teachers or mothers reveals specific 
characteristics that reflect how each of these informants understands the 
children. This highlights the importance of using informants from different 
environments in diagnosing the disorder.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-244X-13-215
PMCID: PMC3765901
PMID: 23978164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1079. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2013 Nov;98(11):4499-506. doi: 10.1210/jc.2013-2175. 
Epub 2013 Aug 26.

Cognitive development in congenital hypothyroidism: is overtreatment a greater 
threat than undertreatment?

Bongers-Schokking JJ(1), Resing WC, de Rijke YB, de Ridder MA, de Muinck 
Keizer-Schrama SM.

Author information:
(1)PhD, Department of Endocrinology, Erasmus Medical Center-Sophia Children's 
Hospital, Sp 3435, PO Box 2060, 3000 CB Rotterdam, The Netherlands. 
abongers@worldonline.nl.

Comment in
    Ann Clin Biochem. 2014 Mar;51(2):303.

BACKGROUND: Optimal treatment of children with congenital hypothyroidism (CHT) 
is still debated. Our objective was to evaluate whether early undertreatment 
(UT) and overtreatment (OT) influence cognitive development at age 11 years.
METHODS: Sixty-one patients (27 severe CHT, 34 mild CHT) were psychologically 
tested at ages 1.8 (Mental Development Index), 6 [intelligence quotient (IQ) 6], 
and 11 years (IQ11). Scores for cognitive development were related to initial 
levels of TSH normalization (fast, moderate, or slow) and to total durations of 
the UT and OT episodes within the first 2 years of life (no, short, or long 
UT/OT). UT and OT were defined as a free T4 (fT4) concentration below or above 
the individual fT4 steady-state concentration range (±2 SD).
RESULTS: Patients with fast and moderate TSH normalization had higher Mental 
Development Index scores than patients with slow TSH normalization; 14.2 and 7.7 
points higher, respectively (P = .001). TSH normalization had no significant 
effect on IQ11. Patients with long and short overtreatment had IQ11s that were 
-17.8 and -13.4 points lower, respectively, than the IQ11s of patients with no 
overtreatment (P = .014). UT without OT was associated with normal development 
scores, but UT with OT was associated with -14.7 points lower IQ11s than UT 
without OT (P = .005).
CONCLUSIONS: Our study suggests that CHT overtreatment during the first 2 years 
leads to lowered cognitive outcomes at 11 years, whereas undertreatment, if not 
complicated by overtreatment, results in a normal cognitive development. Fast 
TSH normalization at initial treatment leads to above-normal development scores 
at a young age but does not affect IQ at age 11 years.

DOI: 10.1210/jc.2013-2175
PMID: 23979950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1080. Telemed J E Health. 2013 Oct;19(10):772-9. doi: 10.1089/tmj.2012.0324. Epub 2013 
Aug 27.

Telehealth trends and the challenge for infrastructure.

Li J(1), Wilson LS.

Author information:
(1)Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation Information & 
Communication Technologies Centre , Marsfield, New South Wales, Australia .

BACKGROUND: As telehealth takes advantage of improved networks, there is a 
growing need to understand the infrastructure needs of future telehealth 
developments. This work aims to predict such needs based on current trends and 
research.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We conducted a literature review of telehealth with a 
focus on advanced network infrastructure. We drew inferences from our previous 
demonstrator projects in advanced telehealth, but the most important findings 
emerged from interviews with a panel of thought leaders.
RESULTS: Our results show that there will be simultaneous and coupled evolution 
of telehealth through the space spanned by three axes: care models, clinical 
applications, and technology. We also consider a two-dimensional model of reach 
and complexity to describe future applications. Universal access to advanced 
networks will drive fundamental changes in healthcare deliver. The biggest 
change will be seen in home and mobile health care delivery, forming part of a 
trend toward patient-centric models. Other aspects of decentralization in 
healthcare systems will include networks of caregivers. Besides this reach 
trend, the complexity trend will include integrating multiple-channel 
applications and seamlessly moving large datasets in real time among hospitals, 
other medical facilities, and homes. There is a need to provide infrastructure 
that does not have an upper limit on quality of service and allows telehealth to 
address mobility, usability, interoperability, intelligence, and adaptability in 
a systematic way.

DOI: 10.1089/tmj.2012.0324
PMID: 23980936 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1081. Neurogastroenterol Motil. 2013 Nov;25(11):918-e704. doi: 10.1111/nmo.12219. Epub 
2013 Aug 26.

An observational study of cognitive function in patients with irritable bowel 
syndrome and inflammatory bowel disease.

Berrill JW(1), Gallacher J, Hood K, Green JT, Matthews SB, Campbell AK, Smith A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, University Hospital Llandough, Cardiff, UK.

BACKGROUND: Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) and inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) 
are associated with several risk factors for developing cognitive impairment. 
These include altered cytokine levels, concurrent mood disorders, and the 
presence of chronic pain. This observational study aimed to explore the 
cognitive profile of patients with these conditions.
METHODS: Participants completed the Cardiff Cognitive Battery, a series of 
computerized neuropsychological performance tests that examine a range of 
cognitive function including psychomotor speed, memory, and intelligence. A 
progressive analysis of covariance model was used with demographic details, 
anxiety and depression scores entered as covariates. Fecal calprotectin levels 
were measured in IBD patients to determine disease activity.
KEY RESULTS: In total 231 participants were recruited (150 IBD patients, 40 IBS 
patients, and 41 healthy controls). IBD patients had significantly lower scores 
on fluid (p = 0.01) and crystalline intelligence tests (p = 0.028) compared to 
healthy volunteers, however, this reflected differences in concurrent mood 
disorder and level of education. When these factors were added as covariates, 
there was no significant difference between the groups. Duration and activity of 
disease did not affect cognitive function in IBD patients. Severity of symptoms 
had no impact on cognition in patients with IBS.
CONCLUSIONS & INFERENCES: The results of this observational study do not support 
the hypothesis that IBS or IBD have an intrinsic disease process that is 
associated with cognitive dysfunction. It is possible that concurrent mood 
disorders, in particular depression, may affect the cognitive performance of 
patients with IBD in specific tasks.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/nmo.12219
PMID: 23981191 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1082. Q J Exp Psychol (Hove). 2013;66(10):1881-7. doi: 10.1080/17470218.2013.828314. 
Epub 2013 Aug 27.

Raven's matrices and working memory: a dual-task approach.

Rao KV(1), Baddeley A.

Author information:
(1)a Department of Psychology , University of York , York , UK.

Raven's Matrices Test was developed as a "pure" measure of Spearman's concept of 
general intelligence, g. Subsequent research has attempted to specify the 
processes underpinning performance, some relating it to the concept of working 
memory and proposing a crucial role for the central executive, with the nature 
of other components currently unclear. Up to this point, virtually all work has 
been based on correlational analysis of number of correct solutions, sometimes 
related to possible strategies. We explore the application to this problem of 
the concurrent task methodology used widely in developing the concept of 
multicomponent working memory. Participants attempted to solve problems from the 
matrices under baseline conditions, or accompanied by backward counting or 
verbal repetition tasks, assumed to disrupt the central executive and 
phonological loop components of working memory, respectively. As in other uses 
of this method, number of items correct showed little effect, while solution 
time measures gave very clear evidence of an important role for the central 
executive, but no evidence for phonological loop involvement. We conclude that 
this and related concurrent task techniques hold considerable promise for the 
analysis of Raven's matrices and potentially for other established psychometric 
tests.

DOI: 10.1080/17470218.2013.828314
PMID: 23981295 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1083. Neuropsychologia. 2013 Nov;51(13):2781-90. doi: 
10.1016/j.neuropsychologia.2013.08.012. Epub 2013 Aug 25.

Increased parietal activity after training of interference control.

Oelhafen S(1), Nikolaidis A, Padovani T, Blaser D, Koenig T, Perrig WJ.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Psychology, University of Bern, Switzerland. Electronic address: 
stephan.oelhafen@psy.unibe.ch.

Recent studies suggest that computerized cognitive training leads to improved 
performance in related but untrained tasks (i.e. transfer effects). However, 
most study designs prevent disentangling which of the task components are 
necessary for transfer. In the current study, we examined whether training on 
two variants of the adaptive dual n-back task would affect untrained task 
performance and the corresponding electrophysiological event-related potentials 
(ERPs). Forty three healthy young adults were trained for three weeks with a 
high or low interference training variant of the dual n-back task, or they were 
assigned to a passive control group. While n-back training with high 
interference led to partial improvements in the Attention Network Test (ANT), we 
did not find transfer to measures of working memory and fluid intelligence. ERP 
analysis in the n-back task and the ANT indicated overlapping processes in the 
P3 time range. Moreover, in the ANT, we detected increased parietal activity for 
the interference training group alone. In contrast, we did not find 
electrophysiological differences between the low interference training and the 
control group. These findings suggest that training on an interference control 
task leads to higher electrophysiological activity in the parietal cortex, which 
may be related to improvements in processing speed, attentional control, or 
both.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuropsychologia.2013.08.012
PMID: 23982078 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1084. Neuromolecular Med. 2014 Mar;16(1):94-105. doi: 10.1007/s12017-013-8260-z. Epub 
2013 Aug 28.

Low glucose utilization and neurodegenerative changes caused by sodium fluoride 
exposure in rat's developmental brain.

Jiang C(1), Zhang S, Liu H, Guan Z, Zeng Q, Zhang C, Lei R, Xia T, Wang Z, Yang 
L, Chen Y, Wu X, Zhang X, Cui Y, Yu L, Wang A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Health and MOE Key Lab of Environment and Health, 
School of Public, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and 
Technology, Hangkong Road 13, Wuhan, 430030, Hubei, People's Republic of China.

Fluorine, a toxic and reactive element, is widely prevalent throughout the 
environment and can induce toxicity when absorbed into the body. This study was 
to explore the possible mechanisms of developmental neurotoxicity in rats 
treated with different levels of sodium fluoride (NaF). The rats' intelligence, 
as well as changes in neuronal morphology, glucose absorption, and functional 
gene expression within the brain were determined using the Morris water maze 
test, transmission electron microscopy, small-animal magnetic resonance imaging 
and Positron emission tomography and computed tomography, and Western blotting 
techniques. We found that NaF treatment-impaired learning and memory in these 
rats. Furthermore, NaF caused neuronal degeneration, decreased brain glucose 
utilization, decreased the protein expression of glucose transporter 1 and glial 
fibrillary acidic protein, and increased levels of brain-derived neurotrophic 
factor in the rat brains. The developmental neurotoxicity of fluoride may be 
closely associated with low glucose utilization and neurodegenerative changes.

DOI: 10.1007/s12017-013-8260-z
PMID: 23982469 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1085. J Hist Behav Sci. 2013 Fall;49(4):379-95. doi: 10.1002/jhbs.21631. Epub 2013 Aug 
27.

Alone again: John Zubek and the troubled history of sensory deprivation 
research.

Raz M.

In the 1950s, sensory deprivation research emerged as an influential new field 
for behavioral science researchers, supported by the intelligence community. 
Within a few years, deprivation research had become ubiquitous; images of 
sensory deprivation were invoked to explain a wide range of phenomena, from 
religious revelations to the very structure of psychoanalysis. Yet within a 
decade and a half, this field of research became implicated in cases of torture 
and abuse. This article examines the history of University of Manitoba 
psychologist John Zubek, who remained one of the final researchers still 
conducting sensory deprivation research in the 1970s. It raises questions on how 
might it be possible to successfully and cautiously perform controversial 
research.

© 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jhbs.21631
PMID: 23982952 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1086. Neuropsychiatr Dis Treat. 2013;9:1175-85. doi: 10.2147/NDT.S45785. Epub 2013 Aug 
14.

Latent class analysis of reading, decoding, and writing performance using the 
Academic Performance Test: concurrent and discriminating validity.

Cogo-Moreira H(1), Carvalho CA, de Souza Batista Kida A, de Avila CR, Salum GA, 
Moriyama TS, Gadelha A, Rohde LA, de Moura LM, Jackowski AP, de Jesus Mari J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Federal University of São Paulo, São Paulo.

AIM: To explore and validate the best returned latent class solution for reading 
and writing subtests from the Academic Performance Test (TDE).
SAMPLE: A total of 1,945 children (6-14 years of age), who answered the TDE, the 
Development and Well-Being Assessment (DAWBA), and had an estimated intelligence 
quotient (IQ) higher than 70, came from public schools in São Paulo (35 schools) 
and Porto Alegre (22 schools) that participated in the 'High Risk Cohort Study 
for Childhood Psychiatric Disorders' project. They were on average 9.52 years 
old (standard deviation = 1.856), from the 1st to 9th grades, and 53.3% male. 
The mean estimated IQ was 102.70 (standard deviation = 16.44).
METHODS: Via Item Response Theory (IRT), the highest discriminating items 
('a'>1.7) were selected from the TDE subtests of reading and writing. A latent 
class analysis was run based on these subtests. The statistically and 
empirically best latent class solutions were validated through concurrent (IQ 
and combined attention deficit hyperactivity disorder [ADHD] diagnoses) and 
discriminant (major depression diagnoses) measures.
RESULTS: A three-class solution was found to be the best model solution, 
revealing classes of children with good, not-so-good, or poor performance on TDE 
reading and writing tasks. The three-class solution has been shown to be 
correlated with estimated IQ and to ADHD diagnosis. No association was observed 
between the latent class and major depression.
CONCLUSION: The three-class solution showed both concurrent and discriminant 
validity. This work provides initial evidence of validity for an empirically 
derived categorical classification of reading, decoding, and writing performance 
using the TDE. A valid classification encourages further research investing 
correlates of reading and writing performance using the TDE.

DOI: 10.2147/NDT.S45785
PMCID: PMC3748054
PMID: 23983466


1087. Iran J Nurs Midwifery Res. 2013 Jan;18(1):38-41.

The relationship between spiritual intelligence with psychological well-being 
and purpose in life of nurses.

Sahebalzamani M(1), Farahani H, Abasi R, Talebi M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nursing and Midwifery, Islamic Azad University, Tehran Medical 
Branch, Tehran, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Spiritual intelligence is defined as the human capacity to ask 
questions about the ultimate meaning of life and the integrated relationship 
between us and the world in which we live. It results in an increase in 
psychological well-being of individuals as well as having a goal in their life. 
This study was conducted to investigate the relationship between spiritual 
intelligence with purpose in life and psychological well-being among the nurses.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The study was a descriptive correlation study. In this 
study, 270 nurses were selected from some hospitals of Tehran University through 
convenient sampling. Data were collected through a four-section questionnaire 
including demographic characteristics, a 24-item questionnaire of spiritual 
intelligence and its four components, psychological well-being questionnaire 
with six subscales and 84 questions, and the questionnaire of purpose in life 
with 20 questions. The data obtained from the questionnaires were analyzed 
through SPSS software.
RESULTS: The results showed that there was a significant relationship between 
spiritual intelligence with psychological well-being and having a purpose in 
life. Furthermore, there was a significant association between the components of 
spiritual intelligence including conscious state expansion, personal meaning 
production, transcendental awareness, and critical existential thinking with 
psychological well-being.
CONCLUSION: High level of spiritual intelligence in nurses helps them to improve 
their psychological well-being and have a purpose in life, which can lead to the 
health provision of them and their patients.

PMCID: PMC3748553
PMID: 23983726

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None


1088. J Neurotrauma. 2013 Oct 1;30(19):1672-9. doi: 10.1089/neu.2013.2898. Epub 2013 
Aug 28.

Inhibition of Myosin light-chain kinase attenuates cerebral edema after 
traumatic brain injury in postnatal mice.

Rossi JL(1), Todd T, Bazan NG, Belayev L.

Author information:
(1)1 Neuroscience Center of Excellence, Louisiana State University Health 
Sciences Center , New Orleans, Louisiana.

Traumatic brain injury (TBI) in children less than 8 years of age leads to 
decline in intelligence and executive functioning. Neurological outcomes after 
TBI correlate to development of cerebral edema, which affect survival rates 
after TBI. It has been shown that myosin light-chain kinase (MLCK) increases 
cerebral edema and that pretreatment with an MLCK inhibitor (ML-7) reduces 
cerebral edema. The aim of this study was to determine whether inhibition of 
MLCK after TBI in postnatal day 24 (PND-24) mice would prevent breakdown of the 
blood-brain barrier (BBB) and development of cerebral edema and improve 
neurological outcome. We used a closed head injury model of TBI. ML-7 or saline 
treatment was administered at 4 h and every 24 h until sacrifice or 5 days after 
TBI. Mice were sacrificed at 24 h, 48 h, and 72 h and 7 days after impact. Mice 
treated with ML-7 after TBI had decreased levels of MLCK-expressing cells 
(20.7±4.8 vs. 149.3±40.6), less albumin extravasation (28.3±11.2 vs. 
116.2±60.7 mm(2)) into surrounding parenchymal tissue, less Evans Blue 
extravasation (339±314 vs. 4017±560 ng/g), and showed a significant difference 
in wet/dry weight ratio (1.9±0.07 vs. 2.2±0.05 g), compared to saline-treated 
groups. Treatment with ML-7 also resulted in preserved neurological function 
measured by the wire hang test (57 vs. 21 sec) and two-object novel recognition 
test (old vs. new, 10.5 touches). We concluded that inhibition of MLCK reduces 
cerebral edema and preserves neurological function in PND-24 mice.

DOI: 10.1089/neu.2013.2898
PMCID: PMC3787387
PMID: 23984869 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1089. J Hum Genet. 2013 Nov;58(11):755-7. doi: 10.1038/jhg.2013.88. Epub 2013 Aug 29.

An Xp22.12 microduplication including RPS6KA3 identified in a family with 
variably affected intellectual and behavioral disabilities.

Matsumoto A(1), Kuwajima M, Miyake K, Kojima K, Nakashima N, Jimbo EF, Kubota T, 
Momoi MY, Yamagata T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Jichi Medical University, Shimotsuke, Japan.

The ribosomal protein S6 kinase, 90 kb, polypeptide 3 gene (RPS6KA3) is 
responsible for Coffin-Lowry syndrome (CLS), which is characterized by 
intellectual disability (ID) and facial and bony abnormalities. This gene also 
affects nonsyndromic X-linked ID and nonsyndromic X-linked ID without bony 
abnormalities. Two families have been previously reported to have genetic 
microduplication including RPS6KA3. In the present study, we used 
array-comparative genomic hybridization (CGH) analysis with Agilent Human genome 
CGH 180K and detected a 584-kb microduplication spanning 19.92-20.50 Mb of 
Xp22.12 (including RPS6KA3) in the members of one family, including three 
brothers, two sisters, and their mother. The 15-year-old male proband and one of 
his brothers had mild ID and localization-related epilepsy, whereas his other 
brother presented borderline intelligence quotient (IQ) and 
attention-deficit-hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). One sister presented pervasive 
development disorder (PDD). Analysis of this family suggests that RPS6KA3 
duplication is responsible for mild ID, ADHD, and localization-related epilepsy, 
and possibly for PDD.

DOI: 10.1038/jhg.2013.88
PMID: 23985797 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1090. J Neurosci. 2013 Aug 28;33(35):14135-45. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0775-13.2013.

Using IQ discrepancy scores to examine the neural correlates of specific 
cognitive abilities.

Margolis A(1), Bansal R, Hao X, Algermissen M, Erickson C, Klahr KW, Naglieri 
JA, Peterson BS.

Author information:
(1)Center for Developmental Neuropsychiatry, Department of Psychiatry, Columbia 
University College of Physicians and Surgeons, New York, New York 10032, USA.

The underlying neural determinants of general intelligence have been studied 
intensively, and seem to derive from the anatomical and functional 
characteristics of a frontoparietal network. Little is known, however, about the 
underlying neural correlates of domain-specific cognitive abilities, the other 
factors hypothesized to explain individual performance on intelligence tests. 
Previous preliminary studies have suggested that spatially distinct neural 
structures do not support domain-specific cognitive abilities. To test whether 
differences between abilities that affect performance on verbal and performance 
tasks derive instead from the morphological features of a single anatomical 
network, we assessed in two independent samples of healthy human participants 
(N=83 and N=58; age range, 5-57 years) the correlation of cortical thickness 
with the magnitude of the verbal intelligence quotient (VIQ)-performance 
intelligence quotient (PIQ) discrepancy. We operationalized the VIQ-PIQ 
discrepancy by regressing VIQ onto PIQ (VIQ-regressed-on-PIQ score), and by 
regressing PIQ onto VIQ (PIQ-regressed-on-VIQ score). In both samples, a 
progressively thinner cortical mantle in anterior and posterior regions 
bilaterally was associated with progressively greater (more positive) 
VIQ-regressed-on-PIQ scores. A progressively thicker cortical mantle in anterior 
and posterior regions bilaterally was associated with progressively greater 
(more positive) PIQ-regressed-on-VIQ scores. Variation in cortical thickness in 
these regions accounted for a large portion of the overall variance in magnitude 
of the VIQ-PIQ discrepancy. The degree of hemispheric asymmetry in cortical 
thickness accounted for a much smaller but statistically significant portion of 
variance in VIQ-PIQ discrepancy.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0775-13.2013
PMCID: PMC3756758
PMID: 23986248 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1091. J Allergy Clin Immunol. 2013 Oct;132(4):889-95.e1-3. doi: 
10.1016/j.jaci.2013.05.046. Epub 2013 Aug 26.

Cognitive and psychosocial function post hematopoietic stem cell transplantation 
in children with hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis.

Jackson J(1), Titman P, Butler S, Bond K, Rao A, Veys P, Chiesa R, Leiper A, 
Riley L, Gilmour K, Amrolia P, Rao K.

Author information:
(1)Research Department of Clinical, Educational and Health Psychology, 
University College London, London, United Kingdom.

OBJECTIVES: This study investigated the cognitive and psychosocial outcomes in 
childhood survivors of hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis after hematopoietic 
stem cell transplantation.
METHODS: Twenty-one children were assessed on standardized measures of cognitive 
and psychosocial functioning and compared with an unaffected sibling control 
group (n = 14). Parent and teacher reports were obtained to provide additional 
information.
RESULTS: The average full-scale intelligence quotient for the patient cohort was 
81 (95% CI, 72-90), which was significantly lower than both the population 
average of 100 (P = .001) and the average for the unaffected sibling control 
group (99.2, P = .002). Fifty-six percent of school-aged children were receiving 
additional support at school, with the majority needing high levels of support. 
These children also experienced significant psychosocial difficulties. Lower 
socioeconomic status was associated with poorer cognitive outcomes, but age at 
transplantation, time to transplantation, type of conditioning, and presence of 
mixed chimerism were not. Ten (48%) of 21 children had evidence of neurologic 
involvement at diagnosis, but surprisingly, this was not significantly 
associated with adverse neurologic outcomes, and some children who did not have 
any apparent neurologic involvement at diagnosis had severe learning 
difficulties at follow-up.
CONCLUSIONS: In summary, childhood survivors of hemophagocytic 
lymphohistiocytosis are at risk of long-term cognitive and psychosocial 
difficulties. Prospective and systematic long-term follow-up of these patients 
is essential for early identification and effective management of these 
problems.

Copyright © 2013 American Academy of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology. Published by 
Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jaci.2013.05.046
PMID: 23987797 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1092. Soc Cogn Affect Neurosci. 2014 Oct;9(10):1464-71. doi: 10.1093/scan/nst140. Epub 
2013 Aug 29.

A neuroimaging investigation of attribute framing and individual differences.

Murch KB(1), Krawczyk DC(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, 
Dallas, TX, USA 75390 and Center for BrainHealth®, School of Behavioral and 
Brain Sciences, The University of Texas at Dallas, Dallas, TX, USA 75235.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, 
Dallas, TX, USA 75390 and Center for BrainHealth®, School of Behavioral and 
Brain Sciences, The University of Texas at Dallas, Dallas, TX, USA 75235 
Department of Psychiatry, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, 
Dallas, TX, USA 75390 and Center for BrainHealth®, School of Behavioral and 
Brain Sciences, The University of Texas at Dallas, Dallas, TX, USA 75235 
daniel.krawczyk@utdallas.edu.

Functional magnetic resonance imaging was used to evaluate the neural basis of 
framing effects. We tested the reflexive and reflective systems model of social 
cognition as it relates to framing. We also examined the relationships among 
frame susceptibility, intelligence and personality measures. Participants 
evaluated whether personal attributes applied to themselves from multiple 
perspectives and in positive and negative frames. Participants rated whether 
each statement was descriptive or not and endorsed positive frames more than 
negative frames. Individual differences on frame decisions enabled us to form 
high and low frame susceptibility groups. Endorsement of frame-consistent 
attributes was associated with personality factors, cognitive reflection and 
intelligence. Reflexive brain regions were associated with positive frames while 
reflective areas were associated with negative frames. Region of Interest 
analyses showed that frame-inconsistent responses were associated with increased 
activation within reflective cognitive control regions including the left 
dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (PFC), dorsomedial PFC and left ventrolateral 
PFC. Frame-consistent responses were associated with increased activation in the 
right orbitofrontal cortex. These results demonstrate that individual 
differences in frame susceptibility influence personal attribute evaluations. 
Overall, this study clarifies the neural correlates of the reflective and 
reflexive systems of social cognition as applied to decisions about social 
attributions.

© The Author (2013). Published by Oxford University Press. For Permissions, 
please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/scan/nst140
PMCID: PMC4187265
PMID: 23988759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1093. Kardiol Pol. 2014;72(2):134-9. doi: 10.5603/KP.a2013.0215. Epub 2013 Aug 30.

Cognitive impairment after appropriate implantable cardioverter-defibrillator 
therapy for ventricular fibrillation.

Hałas K, Krzyżanowski K(1), Krzyżanowska E, Smurzyński P, Ryczek R, 
Michałkiewicz D, Orski Z, Makowski K, Wierzbowski R, Gielerak G.

Author information:
(1)Wojskowy Instytut Medyczny. krystian.krzyzanowski@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Short periods of cerebral ischaemia during ventricular 
defibrillation testing may be associated with neuropsychological impairment. 
However, the impact of out-of-hospital ventricular fibrillation (VF) converted 
by implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) shock on cognitive functioning 
is unknown.
AIM: To assess the impact of out-of-hospital VF converted by ICD shock on 
cognitive functioning.
METHODS: The study included 52 primary prevention ICD recipients. Patients with 
a history of stroke or other neurological impairment, previous head injury and 
individuals unable to see or speak to complete neuropsychological tests were not 
included.Initially, a Mini-Mental State Examination was performed in all 
patients and one patient with a result below 24 points was excluded from the 
study. The cognitive battery consisted of four tests (six measurements): 1) the 
Digit Span subtest of Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Revised; 2) the Digit 
Symbol subtest of Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Revised; 3) the 
Halstead-Reitan Trail-Making Test A and B; and 4) the Ruff Figural Fluency Test.
RESULTS: The mean time from ICD implantation to cognitive assessment was 26 
months. During this period, 15 appropriate shocks for VF were observed in seven 
(14%) patients. The patients with appropriate ICD therapy were significantly 
worse in two out of the six neuropsychological measurements and had a 
significantly lower aggregate result. In multivariate linear regression 
analysis, defibrillation therapy was an independent factor of poor cognitive 
functioning, along with age and education.
CONCLUSIONS: Short periods of out-of-hospital VF converted by ICD are associated 
with cognitive impairment in the recipients of primary prevention ICD.

DOI: 10.5603/KP.a2013.0215
PMID: 23990235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1094. PLoS One. 2013 Aug 21;8(8):e72035. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0072035. 
eCollection 2013.

Small and dim target detection via lateral inhibition filtering and Artificial 
Bee colony based selective visual attention.

Duan H(1), Deng Y, Wang X, Xu C.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Virtual Reality Technology and Systems, School of 
Automation Science and Electrical Engineering, Beihang University (formerly 
Beijing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics), Beijing, P. R. China ; 
Science and Technology on Aircraft Control Laboratory, Beihang University, 
Beijing, P. R. China.

This paper proposed a novel bionic selective visual attention mechanism to 
quickly select regions that contain salient objects to reduce calculations. 
Firstly, lateral inhibition filtering, inspired by the limulus' ommateum, is 
applied to filter low-frequency noises. After the filtering operation, we use 
Artificial Bee Colony (ABC) algorithm based selective visual attention mechanism 
to obtain the interested object to carry through the following recognition 
operation. In order to eliminate the camera motion influence, this paper adopted 
ABC algorithm, a new optimization method inspired by swarm intelligence, to 
calculate the motion salience map to integrate with conventional visual 
attention. To prove the feasibility and effectiveness of our method, several 
experiments were conducted. First the filtering results of lateral inhibition 
filter were shown to illustrate its noise reducing effect, then we applied the 
ABC algorithm to obtain the motion features of the image sequence. The ABC 
algorithm is proved to be more robust and effective through the comparison 
between ABC algorithm and popular Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO) algorithm. 
Except for the above results, we also compared the classic visual attention 
mechanism and our ABC algorithm based visual attention mechanism, and the 
experimental results of which further verified the effectiveness of our method.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0072035
PMCID: PMC3749114
PMID: 23991033 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


1095. Am J Cardiovasc Dis. 2013 Aug 16;3(3):163-9. eCollection 2013.

"Personality traits and heart disease in the Middle East". Is there a link?

Jamil G(1), Haque A, Namawar A, Jamil M.

Author information:
(1)Tawam Hospital PO Box 15258, Al Ain, UAE.

The significant role of psychosocial factors as a contributing factor to an 
increased risk of having a myocardial infarction has been extensively studied in 
the western world. This era of economic crises has seen an exponential rise in 
heart disease at a relatively earlier age. Whether these dynamics are equally 
associated, in the younger ethnically diverse population of UAE, which 
contributes to more than 50% of the population is not very well known.
OBJECTIVES: No studies have examined the role of psychosocial variables and 
personality traits as a contributing factor to CAD in the UAE. The objective of 
this case controlled study was to explore relationships between demographics, 
socioeconomic status, personality types, stress-handling abilities, emotional 
intelligence, and cardiac risk factors.
METHODS: The participants of this case controlled study included 90 MI patients 
admitted to a govt hospital in UAE during the period of 2011-2012, which were 
matched to 90 healthy individual. A analysis of their personality types, 
emotional intelligence and stress handling skills was performed using specific 
questionnaires.
RESULTS: The results showed a significantly higher incidence of Type A 
personality in the MI group. In addition, these individuals were also much more 
likely to have diabetes, hypertension, and a history smoking, when compared to 
controls. Moreover a significant relationship between the presence of Type A 
personality and the presence of CAD was identified. Associations among variables 
were examined followed by analysis, discussion, and recommendation for 
prevention and treatment of CAD in UAE.

PMCID: PMC3751682
PMID: 23991351


1096. Arch Latinoam Nutr. 2013 Sep;63(3):218-23.

[Breastfeeding and its influence into the cognitive process of Spanish 
school-children (6 years old), measured by the Wechsler Intelligence Scale].

[Article in Spanish]

Pérez Ruiz JM, Miranda León MT, Peinado Herreros JM, Iribar Ibabe MC.

Some scientific evidence support that a better cognitive development during the 
school age is related with breastfeeding. In this study, the potential benefit 
of breastfeeding duration is evaluated, related to Verbal Comprehension, 
Perceptual Reasoning, Working Memory and Processing Speed. A total of 103 
children, first year of Primary School, six-year-old, (47 boys and 56 girls), 
were included from different schools in the province of Granada (Spain) at 
urban, semi-urban and rural areas. The global cognitive capability, as well as 
some specific intelligence domains which permit a more precise and deeper 
analysis of the cognitive processes, was evaluated through the Wechsler 
Intelligence Scale for Children--version IV. The results prove an association, 
statistically signnificative, between the best values of IQ and the other four 
WISC-IV indexes and a longer breastfeeding. There is a highly significant (p = 
0.000) association between the best scores and those children who were breastfed 
during 6 months, which validates our hypothesis. The advice of breastfeeding 
during at least the first six months of life should be reinforced to reduce 
learning difficulties.

PMID: 25362821 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1097. Behav Sci (Basel). 2013 Aug 16;3(3):473-491. doi: 10.3390/bs3030473. eCollection 
2013 Sep.

Explaining Differential Reporting of Victimization between Parents and Children: 
A Consideration of Social Biases.

John SG(1), DiLalla LF(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Southern Illinois University, MC 6502, Carbondale, 
IL 62901, USA.
(2)Department of Family and Community Medicine, Southern Illinois University 
School of Medicine, MC 6503, Carbondale, IL 62901, USA.

Studies have shown that children and parents provide different reports of 
children's victimization, with children often reporting more victimization. 
However, the reason for this differential reporting is unclear. This study 
explored two types of social biases (emotion recognition and perceived 
impairment) in parents and children as possible reasons underlying differential 
reporting. Six- to 10-year-old children and one of their parents were tested in 
a lab. Testing included subjective measures of parent alexithymic traits, child 
perceived impairment from victimization, and child- and parent-reported 
frequency of children's peer victimization and internalizing and externalizing 
difficulties. Parents and children also completed an objective measure of 
emotion recognition. Both types of social bias significantly predicted reports 
of children's peer victimization frequency as well as internalizing and 
externalizing difficulties, as rated by parents and children. Moreover, child 
perceived impairment bias, rather than parent emotion bias, best predicted 
differential reporting of peer victimization. Finally, a significant interaction 
demonstrated that the influence of child perceived impairment bias on 
differential reporting was most salient in the presence of parent emotion bias. 
This underscores the importance of expanding interventions for victimized youth 
to include the restructuring of social biases.

DOI: 10.3390/bs3030473
PMCID: PMC4217596
PMID: 25379250


1098. Proc Am Philos Soc. 2013 Sep;157(3):269-80.

The origin of bounded rationality and intelligence.

Lo AW(1).

Author information:
(1)MIT Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory.

Rational economic behavior in which individuals maximize their own self-interest 
is only one of many possible types of behavior that arise from natural 
selection. Given an initial population of individuals, each assigned a purely 
arbitrary behavior with respect to a binary choice problem, and assuming that 
offspring behave identically to their parents, only those behaviors linked to 
reproductive success will survive, and less successful behaviors will disappear 
exponentially fast. This framework yields a single evolutionary explanation for 
the origin of several behaviors that have been observed in organisms ranging 
from bacteria to humans, including risk-sensitive foraging, risk aversion, loss 
aversion, probability matching, randomization, and diversification. The key to 
understanding which types of behavior are more likely to survive is how behavior 
affects reproductive success in a given population's environment. From this 
perspective, intelligence is naturally defined as behavior that increases the 
likelihood of reproductive success, and bounds on rationality are determined by 
physiological and environmental constraints.

PMID: 25638827 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1099. Perspect Psychol Sci. 2013 Sep;8(5):573-85. doi: 10.1177/1745691613498098.

From the Revolution to Embodiment: 25 Years of Cognitive Psychology.

Glenberg AM(1), Witt JK(2), Metcalfe J(3).

Author information:
(1)Arizona State University University of Wisconsin-Madison glenberg@asu.edu.
(2)Colorado State University.
(3)Columbia University.

In 1988, the cognitive revolution had become institutionalized: Cognition was 
the manipulation of abstract symbols by rules. But, much like institutionalized 
political parties, some of the ideas were becoming stale. Where was action? 
Where was the self? How could cognition be smoothly integrated with emotions, 
with social psychology, with development, with clinical analyses? Around that 
time, thinkers in linguistics, philosophy, artificial intelligence, biology, and 
psychology were formulating the idea that just as overt behavior depends on the 
specifics of the body in action, so might cognition depend on the body. Here we 
characterize (some would say caricature) the strengths and weaknesses of 
cognitive psychology of that era, and then we describe what has come to be 
called embodied cognition: how cognition arises through the dynamic interplay of 
brain controlling bodily action controlling perception, which changes the brain. 
We focus on the importance of action and how action shapes perception, the self, 
and language. Having the body in action as a central consideration for theories 
of cognition promises, we believe, to help unify psychology.

© The Author(s) 2013.

DOI: 10.1177/1745691613498098
PMID: 26173215


1100. Multivariate Behav Res. 2013 Sep;48(5):639-62. doi: 
10.1080/00273171.2013.804398.

Bifactor Modeling and the Estimation of Model-Based Reliability in the WAIS-IV.

Gignac GE(1), Watkins MW(1).

Author information:
(1)a University of Western Australia.

Previous confirmatory factor analytic research that has examined the factor 
structure of the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Fourth Edition (WAIS-IV) has 
endorsed either higher order models or oblique factor models that tend to 
amalgamate both general factor and index factor sources of systematic variance. 
An alternative model that has not yet been examined for the WAIS-IV is the 
bifactor model. Bifactor models allow all subtests to load onto both the general 
factor and their respective index factor directly. Bifactor models are also 
particularly amenable to the estimation of model-based reliabilities for both 
global composite scores (ω h ) and subscale/index scores (ω s ). Based on the 
WAIS-IV normative sample correlation matrices, a bifactor model that did not 
include any index factor cross loadings or correlated residuals was found to be 
better fitting than the conventional higher order and oblique factor models. 
Although the ω h estimate associated with the full scale intelligence quotient 
(FSIQ) scores was respectably high (.86), the ω s estimates associated with the 
WAIS-IV index scores were very low (.13 to .47). The results are interpreted in 
the context of the benefits of a bifactor modeling approach. Additionally, in 
light of the very low levels of unique internal consistency reliabilities 
associated with the index scores, it is contended that clinical index score 
interpretations are probably not justifiable.

DOI: 10.1080/00273171.2013.804398
PMID: 26741057


1101. Noro Psikiyatr Ars. 2013 Sep;50(3):209-215. doi: 10.4274/npa.y6226. Epub 2013 
Sep 1.

Psychiatric and Neurocognitive Evaluation Focused on Frontal Lobe Functions in 
Rolandic Epilepsy.

Ayaz M(1), Karakaya I(2), Ayaz AB(1), Kara B(2), Kutlu M(3).

Author information:
(1)Sakarya Education and Research Hospital, Division of Pediatric Psychiatry, 
Sakarya, Turkey.
(2)Kocaeli University Medical Faculty, Department of Child and Adolescent 
Psychiatry, Kocaeli, Turkey.
(3)Kocaeli University Medical Faculty, Department of Pediatrics, Kocaeli, 
Turkey.

INTRODUCTION: In this study, we aimed to assess the behavioral problems, 
psychiatric disorders and neurocognitive functions focusing on frontal lobe 
functions in children with rolandic epilepsy (RE) and compare them with a 
control group.
METHOD: 31 children with RE, aged between 8 and 13,5 years were compared with a 
control group matched for age, sex and socioeconomic status. Behavioral problems 
were assessed by the Child Behavior Checklist (CBCL) and psychiatric diagnoses 
were established by using the Kiddie Schedule for Affective Disorders and 
Schizophrenia Present and Lifetime Version. The Wechsler Intelligence Scale for 
Children-Revised (WISC-R), Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST) and the Stroop 
Color and Word Test (SCWT) were applied in both groups of children.
RESULT: The RE group presented more psychiatric disorders than the control 
group. Verbal and total IQ scores in the RE group were lower than in the control 
group. Although the groups did not differ from each other in WCST scores, 
children with RE displayed lower performance in SCWT. The RE group had a higher 
externalizing score and higher total scores in CBCL.
CONCLUSION: It was concluded that RE did not affect basic frontal lobe functions 
significantly, had negative effects on attention and IQ performance and 
increased behavioral problems and psychiatric disorders.

Publisher: GIRIŞ: Bu çalışmada, rolandik epilepsi (RE) tanısı alan çocuklarda 
davranış sorunlarını, ruhsal bozuklukları ve frontal lob işlevlerine odaklanan 
nörobilişsel işlevleri deg̃erlendirmeyi amaçladık.
YÖNTEMLER: RE tanısı ile takip edilen 8–13,5 yaşlarında 31 çocuk ile yaş, 
cinsiyet ve sosyoekonomik düzey açısından eşleştirilen kontrol grubu 
karşılaştırıldı. Çocukların davranış sorunları Çocuk ve Gençlerde Davranış 
Deg̃erlendirme Ölçeg̃i (ÇDDÖ) ile ruhsal bozukluk tanıları Okul Çag̃ı Çocukları 
İçin Duygulanım Bozuklukları ve Şizofreni Görüşme Çizelgesi-Şimdi ve Yaşam Boyu 
Şekli (ÇDŞG-ŞY) yapılarak deg̃erlendirildi. Çocuklara Wechsler Çocuklar İçin 
Zeka Ölçeg̃i (WISC-R), Wisconsin Kart Eşleme Testi (WKET) ve Stroop Renk ve 
Kelime Testi (SRKT) uygulandı.
BULGULAR: RE grubunda kontrol grubuna kıyasla daha fazla ruhsal bozukluk 
saptandı. RE grubunun sözel ve toplam zeka düzeylerinin kontrol grubundan daha 
düşük oldug̃u belirlendi. WKET puanları açısından iki grup arasında anlamlı bir 
fark bulunmazken, SRKT’de RE’li çocuklar kontrol grubuna göre daha kötü 
işlevsellik gösterdi. RE grubu ÇDDÖ’de dışa yönelim ve toplam sorun alanlarında 
daha yüksek puan aldı.
SONUÇ: RE’nin temel frontal lob işlevlerini anlamlı düzeyde etkilemedig̃i, 
dikkat ve zeka üzerinde olumsuz etkilerinin oldug̃u, ruhsal bozukluk ve davranış 
sorunlarını arttırdıg̃ı düşünüldü.

DOI: 10.4274/npa.y6226
PMCID: PMC5363437
PMID: 28360545

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: The authors reported no 
conflict of interest related to this article. Çıkar çatışması: Yazarlar bu 
makale ile ilgili olarak herhangi bir çıkar çatışması bildirmemişlerdir.


1102. Ir J Psychol Med. 2013 Sep;30(3):179-186. doi: 10.1017/ipm.2013.26.

Examining IQ among a clinical sample of preschool children with autism spectrum 
disorder over time.

Barry M(1), Moran A(2), Anglim M(3), Conway EV(2), Guerin S(4).

Author information:
(1)1Senior Clinical Psychologist, Department of Psychology, Temple Street 
Children's University Hospital, Dublin, Ireland.
(2)2Research Psychologist, Department of Psychology, Temple Street Children's 
University Hospital, Dublin, Ireland.
(3)3Consultant Child and Adolescent Psychiatrist, Department of Psychiatry, 
Temple Street Children's University Hospital, Dublin, Ireland.
(4)4Senior Lecturer, Department of Psychology, University College Dublin, 
Belfield, Dublin, Ireland.

BACKGROUND: The cognitive functioning of children who received a diagnosis of 
autistic spectrum disorder (ASD) during the preschool years was assessed at the 
time of diagnosis (Time 1) and reassessed, on average, 3 years and 5 months 
later (Time 2).
METHOD: A total of 50 children were assessed (76% male, n = 38); the group had 
an average age of 4 years 3 months at Time 1 and 7 years 8 months at Time 2.
RESULTS: There was a significant positive relationship (r = 0.791, p < 0.01) 
between the group's Full Scale Intelligence Quotient (FSIQ)/Developmental 
Quotient (DQ) at Time 1 and at Time 2. Results indicated a significant increase 
in FSIQ/DQ over time for the total group and for both the High Functioning (IQ ⩾ 
70) and Low Functioning (IQ < 70) groups. Of the total samples, 32% showed a 
clinically significant change in FSIQ/DQ of 15 points or more from Time 1 to 
Time 2. When age at Time 1 was included as a covariate, no significant 
difference was identified for change in FSIQ over time. The practical 
implications of the findings are discussed.

DOI: 10.1017/ipm.2013.26
PMID: 30189494


1103. Seizure. 2013 Dec;22(10):886-92. doi: 10.1016/j.seizure.2013.08.002. Epub 2013 
Aug 12.

Intellectual functioning in children with epilepsy: frontal lobe epilepsy, 
childhood absence epilepsy and benign epilepsy with centro-temporal spikes.

Lopes AF(1), Simões MR, Monteiro JP, Fonseca MJ, Martins C, Ventosa L, Lourenço 
L, Robalo C.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Psychology, University of Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal; 
Neuropaediatric Unit - Garcia de Orta Hospital, Almada, Portugal. Electronic 
address: anafilipalopes@fpce.uc.pt.

PURPOSE: The purpose of our study is to describe intellectual functioning in 
three common childhood epilepsy syndromes - frontal lobe epilepsy (FLE), 
childhood absence epilepsy (CAE) and benign epilepsy with centro-temporal spikes 
(BECTS). And also to determine the influence of epilepsy related variables, type 
of epilepsy, age at epilepsy onset, duration and frequency of epilepsy, and 
treatment on the scores.
METHODS: Intellectual functioning was examined in a group of 90 children with 
epilepsy (30 FLE, 30 CAE, 30 BECTS), aged 6-15 years, and compared with a 
control group (30). All subjects obtained a Full Scale IQ ≥ 70 and they were 
receiving no more than two antiepileptic medications. Participants completed the 
Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children - Third Edition. The impact of epilepsy 
related variables (type of epilepsy, age at epilepsy onset, duration of 
epilepsy, seizure frequency and anti-epileptic drugs) on intellectual 
functioning was examined.
RESULTS: Children with FLE scored significantly worse than controls on WISC-III 
Verbal IQ, Full Scale IQ and Processing Speed Index. There was a trend for 
children with FLE to have lower intelligence scores than CAE and BECTS groups. 
Linear regression analysis showed no effect for age at onset, frequency of 
seizures and treatment. Type of epilepsy and duration of epilepsy were the best 
indicators of intellectual functioning.
CONCLUSION: It is crucial that children with FLE and those with a longer active 
duration of epilepsy are closely monitored to allow the early identification and 
evaluation of cognitive problems, in order to establish adequate and timely 
school intervention plans.

Copyright © 2013 British Epilepsy Association. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.seizure.2013.08.002
PMID: 23992789 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1104. Psychiatry Res. 2013 Dec 30;210(3):986-93. doi: 10.1016/j.psychres.2013.07.028. 
Epub 2013 Aug 28.

Prevalence of premorbid personality disorder and its clinical correlates in 
patients with delusional disorder.

de Portugal E(1), Díaz-Caneja CM, González-Molinier M, de Castro MJ, del Amo V, 
Arango C, Cervilla JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Hospital General Universitario Gregorio Marañón, 
CIBERSAM, IiSGM, School of Medicine, Universidad Complutense, Madrid, Spain. 
Electronic address: edeportugal@yahoo.com.

The aim of this study was to investigate the presence of premorbid Personality 
Disorder (PD) and its relationship with clinical correlates in patients with 
Delusional Disorder (DD). Eighty-six outpatients with DD whose diagnoses were 
confirmed using the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV Axis I (SCID-I) 
Disorders (psychosis module) were evaluated for premorbid PD utilizing the 
Standardized Assessment of Personality (SAP). Psychopathology was assessed using 
Module B of SCID-I and the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS); 
psychosocial functioning was evaluated with the Global Assessment of Functioning 
scale. Premorbid intelligence was assessed using the Wechsler Adult Intelligence 
Scale-Third Edition, vocabulary subtest. A sociodemographic-clinical 
questionnaire was completed. Sixty-four percent of the patients had at least one 
premorbid PD, the most common being paranoid PD (38.4%), followed by schizoid PD 
(12.8%). The presence of at least one premorbid PD was significantly associated 
with higher scores for psychopathology, in particular, on the affective 
dimension of DD symptoms. However, the presence of premorbid PD was not 
associated with psychosocial functioning. Each of the premorbid PD was 
associated with different psychopathological profiles. Premorbid PD is a 
relevant phenomenon in DD, given its high prevalence and comorbidity, its 
influence on clinical correlates and its potential ability to predict specific 
sub-syndromes.

© 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2013.07.028
PMID: 23993136 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1105. Mol Genet Metab. 2013 Nov;110(3):218-21. doi: 10.1016/j.ymgme.2013.08.003. Epub 
2013 Aug 14.

Clinical and metabolic findings in patients with methionine adenosyltransferase 
I/III deficiency detected by newborn screening.

Couce ML(1), Bóveda MD, García-Jimémez C, Balmaseda E, Vives I, Castiñeiras DE, 
Fernández-Marmiesse A, Fraga JM, Mudd SH, Corrales FJ.

Author information:
(1)Unit of Diagnosis and Treatment of Congenital Metabolic Diseases, Department 
of Pediatrics, Hospital Clínico Universitario de Santiago de Compostela, 
CIBERER, Health Research Institute of Santiago de Compostela (IDIS), A Choupana, 
s/n, 15706 Santiago de Compostela, A Coruña, Spain

Erratum in
    Mol Genet Metab. 2015 Mar;114(3):486.

Persistent hypermethioninemia due to mutations in the MAT1A gene is often found 
during newborn screening (NBS) for homocystinuria due to cystathionine 
beta-synthase deficiency, however, outcomes and optimal management for these 
patients are not well established. We carried out a multicenter study of MAT 
I/III-deficient patients detected by NBS in four of the Spanish regional NBS 
programs. Data evaluated during NBS and follow-up for 18 patients included 
methionine and total homocysteine levels, clinical presentation parameters, 
genotypes, and development quotients. The birth prevalence was 1:1:22,874. At 
detection 16 of the 18 patients exhibited elevations of plasma methionine above 
60 μmol/L (mean 99.9 ± 38 μmol/L) and the mean value in confirmation tests was 
301 μmol/L (91-899) μmol/L. All patients were asymptomatic. In four patients 
with more markedly elevated plasma methionines (>450 μmol/L) total homocysteine 
values were slightly elevated (about 20 μmol/L). The average follow-up period 
was 3 years 7 months (range: 2-123 months). Most patients (83%) were 
heterozygous for the autosomal dominant Arg264His mutation and, with one 
exception, presented relatively low circulating methionine concentrations (<400 
μM). Additional mutations identified in patients with mean confirmatory plasma 
methionines above 400 μM were Arg199Cys, Leu355Arg, and a novel mutation, 
Thr288Ala. During continued follow-up, the patients have been asymptomatic, and, 
to date, no therapeutic interventions have been utilized. Therefore, the 
currently available evidence shows that hypermethioninemia due to heterozygous 
MAT1A mutations such as Arg264His is a mild condition for which no treatment is 
necessary.

© 2013.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymgme.2013.08.003
PMID: 23993429 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1106. Epilepsy Behav. 2013 Oct;29(1):205-10. doi: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2013.07.014. Epub 
2013 Aug 27.

Cognitive correlates of interictal epileptiform discharges in adult patients 
with epilepsy in China.

Lv Y(1), Wang Z, Cui L, Ma D, Meng H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Jilin University, 
71 Xinmin Street, Changchun, Jilin, PR China.

OBJECTIVE: Learning difficulties or cognitive impairment has been observed in 
many patients with epilepsy. Evidence from neurophysiologic and functional 
neuroimaging suggests that epileptic seizures and/or epileptiform activity can 
be the dominant factors inhibiting specific brain areas. However, most previous 
studies were focused on cognitive performance in children. In this study, we 
analyzed a new cohort of adult patients with frequent interictal epileptiform 
discharges (IEDs).
METHODS: Data from 67 adult patients with epilepsy were reviewed. 
Electroencephalography (EEG)-video recording and cognitive testing were 
performed, and the IED index was estimated as a percentage assigned to one of 
four categories (<1%, 1-10%, 10-50%, and >50%) during either wakefulness or 
sleep. Correlations of cognitive test results and clinical characteristics of 
IED categories were analyzed. The effects of the frequency, duration, location, 
and sleep-wake cycles of IEDs on cognition (intelligence and memory capacity) 
were analyzed.
RESULTS: Patients with an IED index >10% showed impaired performance on the 
Chinese Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale (WAIS-RC) and the Chinese Wechsler 
Memory Scale (WMS). This effect was detected independently from other IED 
frequencies and other IED-related variables, such as duration, distribution, and 
location. The impact of waking or sleeping IEDs was of equal importance in 
contributing to impaired WAIS-RC and WMS performance.
CONCLUSION: An IED frequency of more than 10% in both waking and sleeping EEGs 
is associated with impaired cognitive performance in adult patients. However, 
whether patients with a high IED frequency but low seizure frequency will 
benefit from antiepileptic treatment should be examined in future studies.

© 2013.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2013.07.014
PMID: 23994830 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1107. Epilepsy Behav. 2013 Oct;29(1):211-6. doi: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2013.07.007. Epub 
2013 Aug 27.

Facial emotion recognition in childhood: the effects of febrile seizures in the 
developing brain.

Cantalupo G(1), Meletti S, Miduri A, Mazzotta S, Rios-Pohl L, Benuzzi F, Pisani 
F, Tassinari CA, Cossu G.

Author information:
(1)Child Neuropsychiatry Unit, Department of Neuroscience, University-Hospital 
of Parma, Via Gramsci 14, Parma, Italy; Department of Life and Reproduction 
Sciences, University of Verona, P.le Scuro 10, Verona, Italy. Electronic 
address: gcantalupo@gmail.com.

It has been documented that anteromedial temporal lobe dysfunction can cause 
impairment in emotional intelligence. In particular, medial temporal lobe 
epilepsy (MTLE) is associated with disorders in emotion recognition from facial 
expressions. About one-third of patients with MTLE experienced febrile seizures 
(FSs) during childhood. In the present study, we investigated facial emotion 
recognition ability in a group of 38 school-aged children with antecedent FSs 
and in an age- and sex-matched control group. Children with abnormal general 
visuoperceptual abilities were excluded. Children with FSs showed lower 
recognition scores versus controls in both matching (28.64 vs 33.47; p<.0001) 
and labeling (21.25 vs 23.03; p=.001) facial emotions. Our findings support the 
hypothesis that FSs can be associated during childhood with a dysfunction within 
the neural network subserving the processing of facial expressions of the basic 
emotions.

© 2013.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2013.07.007
PMID: 23994831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1108. J Can Chiropr Assoc. 2013 Sep;57(3):205-13.

On Vaccination & Chiropractic: when ideology, history, perception, politics and 
jurisprudence collide.

Gleberzon B, Lameris M, Schmidt C, Ogrady J.

The Palmers espoused anti-vaccination opinions in the early part of the 20(th) 
century, rejecting the germ theory of disease in favor of a worldview that a 
subluxation-free spine, achieved by spinal adjustments, would result in an 
unfettered innate intelligence; this, along with other healthful lifestyle 
choices, would allow a person to thwart disease by marshaling the body's natural 
recuperative abilities. Some chiropractors continue to staunchly champion the 
Palmer postulates, while others do not. At the national level, advocacy 
organizations publish conflicting position statements. We explore how this 
divisiveness has impacted chiropractic ideology, perceptions among students and 
practitioners, politics and issues of jurisprudence as reflected by the 
evolution of a standard of chiropractic practice in at least one Canadian 
province (Ontario). We opine that the chiropractic profession should champion a 
health promotion and disease prevention approach to vaccination, which would 
allow it to align itself with the broader healthcare community while not 
abandoning its traditional tenets.

Publisher: Au début du 20e siècle, les Palmer ont soutenu des opinions 
anti-vaccination, rejetant la théorie microbienne des maladies en faveur d’une 
idée répandue mondialement suivant laquelle une colonne vertébrale sans 
subluxation, résultat d’ajustements vertébraux, se traduirait par une 
intelligence innée et sans contrainte. Ceci, accompagné d’autres choix sains de 
mode de vie, permettrait à une personne d’écarter les maladies en faisant appel 
aux capacités de récupération naturelles de son corps. Certains chiropraticiens 
continuent de défendre farouchement la thèse de Palmer, alors que d’autres s’y 
opposent. À l’échelle nationale, divers groupes de défense publient des opinions 
contradictoires. Nous examinons l’impact de cette divergence d’opinion sur 
l’idéologie de la chiropratique, les perceptions des étudiants et des 
praticiens, les politiques et les enjeux de jurisprudence, comme le reflète 
l’évolution de normes de pratique de la chiropratique dans au moins une province 
canadienne (Ontario). Nous sommes d’avis que la profession de la chiropratique 
devrait favoriser une approche de promotion de la santé et de prévention des 
maladies concernant la vaccination, ce qui lui permettra de s’harmoniser avec le 
reste de la communauté médicale sans pour autant abandonner ses principes 
traditionnels.

PMCID: PMC3743646
PMID: 23997246


1109. Ann Thorac Surg. 2013 Nov;96(5):1727-33. doi: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2013.06.012. 
Epub 2013 Aug 30.

Incremental reduction in the incidence of stroke in children supported with the 
Berlin EXCOR ventricular assist device.

Byrnes JW(1), Prodhan P, Williams BA, Schmitz ML, Moss MM, Dyamenahalli U, 
McKamie W, Morrow WR, Imamura M, Bhutta AT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Arkansas Medical Sciences, Little 
Rock, Arkansas. Electronic address: jonathanwbyrnes@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Cerebrovascular events (CVEs) are common among children supported 
with the Berlin EXCOR (Berlin Heart GmbH, Berlin, Germany) ventricular assist 
device (VAD). Given the high incidence of CVEs associated with this device, we 
sought to describe our institutional experience in incrementally reducing CVEs 
in children supported with the Berlin EXCOR VAD.
METHODS: We collected pertinent data on 39 consecutive patients who underwent 
Berlin EXCOR VAD implantation at a single center. Frequency of CVEs was 
described in risk per implantation, per day, and in reference to the time of 
therapeutic anticoagulation. Risk factors were analyzed for association with 
CVEs.
RESULTS: Of the initial 39 Berlin EXCOR VAD implantations, 16 CVEs occurred in 
12 patients. The incidence of CVEs decreased with institutional experience per 
patient (R(2) = 0.6909, p = 0.007) and per patient-day (R(2) = 0.8051, p = 
0.002). CVEs occurred more frequently before therapeutic anticoagulation targets 
were achieved (4.1%/day) compared with after therapeutic anticoagulation targets 
were achieved (0.9%/day; p = 0.044).
CONCLUSIONS: Incidence of CVEs decreased with institutional experience. The risk 
of CVE is highest in the immediate postoperative period before therapeutic 
anticoagulation is achieved. Further studies are warranted in pediatric patients 
supported with the Berlin EXCOR VAD to confirm our findings in a larger cohort.

Copyright © 2013 The Society of Thoracic Surgeons. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2013.06.012
PMID: 23998407 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1110. Stem Cell Res Ther. 2013 Aug 22;4(4):100. doi: 10.1186/scrt311.

Clever glia.

Spitzer S, Agathou S, Karadottir R.

Comment on
    Cell Stem Cell. 2013 Mar 7;12(3):342-53.

Twenty years ago glial cells were shown to contribute to neuronal information 
processing, instead of merely supporting neuronal function, thus challenging the 
century old neuron doctrine. Due to the lack of appropriate experimental models, 
however, determining the role of glia in higher brain function and disease has 
been hampered. In a recent paper, Han and colleagues transplanted human glial 
progenitor cells into mice; not only does this study pave the way for 
generations of excellent models to study the physiology and pathophysiology of 
human glial cells, especially in the age of induced pluripotent stem cells, but 
more importantly it further challenges the neuron doctrine, since the human-glia 
transplanted mice turned into better learners. So, are glial cells the ones we 
owe our intelligence to after all?

DOI: 10.1186/scrt311
PMCID: PMC3854849
PMID: 23998426 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1111. J Neurosci Methods. 2014 Jan 15;221:202-14. doi: 10.1016/j.jneumeth.2013.08.013. 
Epub 2013 Aug 30.

Assessing EEG sleep spindle propagation. Part 1: theory and proposed 
methodology.

O'Reilly C(1), Nielsen T.

Author information:
(1)Dream and Nightmare Laboratory, Center for Advanced Research in Sleep 
Medicine, Hôpital du Sacré-Coeur de Montréal, 5400 boulevard Gouin Ouest 
Montréal, QC H4J 1C5, Canada. Electronic address: 
christian.oreilly@umontreal.ca.

BACKGROUND: A convergence of studies has revealed sleep spindles to be 
associated with sleep-related cognitive processing and even with fundamental 
waking state capacities such as intelligence. However, some spindle 
characteristics, such as propagation direction and delay, may play a decisive 
role but are only infrequently investigated because of technical complexities.
NEW METHOD: A new methodology for assessing sleep spindle propagation over the 
human scalp using noninvasive electroencephalography (EEG) is described. This 
approach is based on the alignment of time-frequency representations of spindle 
activity across recording channels.
RESULTS: This first of a two-part series concentrates on framing theoretical 
considerations related to EEG spindle propagation and on detailing the 
methodology. A short example application is provided that illustrates the 
repeatability of results obtained with the new propagation measure in a sample 
of 32 night recordings. A more comprehensive experimental investigation is 
presented in part two of the series.
COMPARISON WITH EXISTING METHOD(S): Compared to existing methods, this approach 
is particularly well adapted for studying the propagation of sleep spindles 
because it estimates time delays rather than phase synchrony and it computes 
propagation properties for every individual spindle with windows adjusted to the 
specific spindle duration.
CONCLUSIONS: The proposed methodology is effective in tracking the propagation 
of spindles across the scalp and may thus help in elucidating the temporal 
aspects of sleep spindle dynamics, as well as other transient EEG and MEG 
events. A software implementation (the Spyndle Python package) is provided as 
open source software.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jneumeth.2013.08.013
PMID: 23999176 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1112. Br J Psychiatry. 2013 Sep;203(3):161-2. doi: 10.1192/bjp.bp.112.109553.

Cognitive function in schizophrenia: insights from intelligence research.

Joyce EM.

Schizophrenia is characterised by generalised cognitive impairment that is both 
a risk factor and a predictor of outcome. Recent research into human 
intelligence supports the view that, in schizophrenia, poor performance on 
disparate cognitive tasks can be explained by dysfunction of a frontoparietal 
neural network thought to support fluid intelligence.

DOI: 10.1192/bjp.bp.112.109553
PMID: 23999476 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1113. Mol Psychiatry. 2014 Jul;19(7):784-90. doi: 10.1038/mp.2013.106. Epub 2013 Sep 
3.

Exome sequencing in multiplex autism families suggests a major role for 
heterozygous truncating mutations.

Toma C(1), Torrico B(1), Hervás A(2), Valdés-Mas R(3), Tristán-Noguero A(4), 
Padillo V(5), Maristany M(5), Salgado M(2), Arenas C(6), Puente XS(3), Bayés 
M(7), Cormand B(8).

Author information:
(1)1] Department of Genetics, University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain [2] 
Biomedical Network Research Centre on Rare Diseases (CIBERER), Barcelona, Spain.
(2)Child and Adolescent Mental Health Unit, Hospital Universitari Mútua de 
Terrassa, Barcelona, Spain.
(3)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, University of Oviedo-IUOPA, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(4)Department of Genetics, University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(5)Developmental Disorders Unit (UETD), Hospital Sant Joan de Déu, Esplugues de 
Llobregat, Barcelona, Spain.
(6)Department of Statistics, University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(7)National Centre for Genomic Analysis (CNAG), Barcelona, Spain.
(8)1] Department of Genetics, University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain [2] 
Biomedical Network Research Centre on Rare Diseases (CIBERER), Barcelona, Spain 
[3] Institute of Biomedicine, University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.

Autism is a severe neurodevelopmental disorder, the aetiology of which remains 
mainly unknown. Family and twin studies provide strong evidence that genetic 
factors have a major role in the aetiology of this disease. Recently, whole 
exome sequencing (WES) efforts have focused mainly on rare de novo variants in 
singleton families. Although these studies have provided pioneering insights, de 
novo variants probably explain only a small proportion of the autism risk 
variance. In this study, we performed exome sequencing of 10 autism multiplex 
families with the aim of investigating the role of rare variants that are 
coinherited in the affected sibs. The pool of variants selected in our study is 
enriched with genes involved in neuronal functions or previously reported in 
psychiatric disorders, as shown by Gene Ontology analysis and by browsing the 
Neurocarta database. Our data suggest that rare truncating heterozygous variants 
have a predominant role in the aetiology of autism. Using a multiple linear 
regression model, we found that the burden of truncating mutations correlates 
with a lower non-verbal intelligence quotient (NVIQ). Also, the number of 
truncating mutations that were transmitted to the affected sibs was 
significantly higher (twofold) than those not transmitted. Protein-protein 
interaction analysis performed with our list of mutated genes revealed that the 
postsynaptic YWHAZ is the most interconnected node of the network. Among the 
genes found disrupted in our study, there is evidence suggesting that YWHAZ and 
also the X-linked DRP2 may be considered as novel autism candidate genes.

DOI: 10.1038/mp.2013.106
PMID: 23999528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1114. Nanotechnology. 2013 Sep 27;24(38):383001. doi: 10.1088/0957-4484/24/38/383001. 
Epub 2013 Sep 2.

Memristor, Hodgkin-Huxley, and edge of chaos.

Chua L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences, University of 
California-Berkeley, CA 94720, USA. chua@eecs.berkeley.edu

From a pedagogical point of view, the memristor is defined in this tutorial as 
any 2-terminal device obeying a state-dependent Ohm's law. This tutorial also 
shows that from an experimental point of view, the memristor can be defined as 
any 2-terminal device that exhibits the fingerprints of 'pinched' hysteresis 
loops in the v-i plane. It also shows that memristors endowed with a continuum 
of equilibrium states can be used as non-volatile analog memories. This tutorial 
shows that memristors span a much broader vista of complex phenomena and 
potential applications in many fields, including neurobiology. In particular, 
this tutorial presents toy memristors that can mimic the classic habituation and 
LTP learning phenomena. It also shows that sodium and potassium ion-channel 
memristors are the key to generating the action potential in the Hodgkin-Huxley 
equations, and that they are the key to resolving several unresolved anomalies 
associated with the Hodgkin-Huxley equations. This tutorial ends with an amazing 
new result derived from the new principle of local activity, which uncovers a 
minuscule life-enabling 'Goldilocks zone', dubbed the edge of chaos, where 
complex phenomena, including creativity and intelligence, may emerge. From an 
information processing perspective, this tutorial shows that synapses are 
locally-passive memristors, and that neurons are made of locally-active 
memristors.

DOI: 10.1088/0957-4484/24/38/383001
PMID: 23999613 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1115. Dan Med J. 2013 Sep;60(9):A4704.

Mechanism of injury and microbiological flora of the geographical location are 
essential for the prognosis in soldiers with serious warfare injuries.

Wetterslev M(1), Rose-Larsen K, Hansen-Schwartz J, Steen-Andersen J, Møller K, 
Møller-Sørensen H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Anaesthesiology and Intensive Care 4141, 
Rigshospitalet, 2100 Copenhagen, Denmark.

INTRODUCTION: Denmark has been engaged in the Afghanistan war and as a result, 
Rigshospitalet has received a number of multi-traumatized Danish soldiers. 
Lesions sustained in armed conflict differ from their civilian counterparts and 
knowledge of the pathophysiology related to these types of lesions is essential 
when engaging in the intensive care of these patients.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The study was conducted as a retrospective survey of 
Danish soldiers evacuated from Afghanistan to the Intensive Care Unit at 
Rigshospitalet in the 2002-2012 period. The following data were recorded: age, 
gender, hospitalization (days), mortality, organ involvement, respiratory 
therapy, dialysis, circulatory supportive care, antibiotic treatment and 
bacteriology. Furthermore, Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation, 
Simplified Acute Physiology Score and Sequential Organ Failure Assessment scores 
were calculated.
RESULTS: A total of twenty patients were identified and included in the study. 
All patients had sustained serious blast injuries as a result of explosion. 
Primarily the central nervous system, respiratory, musculoskeletal and abdominal 
systems were affected by the explosions. Eighteen patients survived to discharge 
and two patients died.
DISCUSSION: Explosion was the most frequent cause of injury in all cases and 
caused damage to several organ systems. Infections after combat injuries are a 
major problem because of the different microbiological profile.
CONCLUSION: The use of explosives has been and remains a substantial part of 
warfare, and this review has showed us that the knowledge of the mechanism of 
injury is indeed essential, and that intelligence on the microbiological flora 
of the geographical location of the conflict is essential.
FUNDING: not relevant.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: not relevant.

PMID: 24001466 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1116. Psychiatry Res. 2013 Dec 30;210(3):1014-9. doi: 10.1016/j.psychres.2013.08.020. 
Epub 2013 Aug 31.

A multidimensional assessment of social cognition in psychometrically defined 
schizotypy.

Morrison SC(1), Brown LA, Cohen AS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Louisiana State University, USA. Electronic 
address: sean.morrison3@gmail.com.

Individuals with schizophrenia exhibit impairments in multiple social cognitive 
domains. There is evidence that these impairments may be trait-related 
vulnerability markers for schizophrenia. However, the literature focusing on 
individuals vulnerable to developing schizophrenia-spectrum disorders, referred 
to as schizotypy, has produced inconsistent findings. This study's primary aim 
was to provide a more comprehensive understanding of social cognitive 
functioning within schizotypy than previous studies by employing a broad array 
of measures to assess multiple social cognitive domains, and examine how these 
domains relate to specific schizotypy traits (i.e., positive, negative, and 
disorganized) and Quality of Life (QOL). Facial emotion recognition, Theory of 
Mind (ToM), and aspects of emotional intelligence related to regulating one's 
own emotions (emotion management) and other's emotions (social management) were 
measured. Individuals with psychometrically defined schizotypy (n=36) and 
controls (n=26) were examined. The schizotypy group performed significantly 
worse than controls on facial emotion recognition, ToM, and emotion management, 
but not social management. Generally speaking, poorer social cognition 
performance was not a function of specific schizotypy traits. However, negative 
traits were associated with poorer facial emotion recognition, and disorganized 
traits were associated with better social management. Facial emotion recognition 
was associated with QOL in the schizotypy group.

© 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2013.08.020
PMID: 24001586 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1117. Comput Methods Programs Biomed. 2013 Dec;112(3):441-54. doi: 
10.1016/j.cmpb.2013.08.004. Epub 2013 Aug 17.

An improved method of early diagnosis of smoking-induced respiratory changes 
using machine learning algorithms.

Amaral JL(1), Lopes AJ, Jansen JM, Faria AC, Melo PL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Electronics and Telecommunications Engineering, State 
University of Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.

The purpose of this study was to develop an automatic classifier to increase the 
accuracy of the forced oscillation technique (FOT) for diagnosing early 
respiratory abnormalities in smoking patients. The data consisted of FOT 
parameters obtained from 56 volunteers, 28 healthy and 28 smokers with low 
tobacco consumption. Many supervised learning techniques were investigated, 
including logistic linear classifiers, k nearest neighbor (KNN), neural networks 
and support vector machines (SVM). To evaluate performance, the ROC curve of the 
most accurate parameter was established as baseline. To determine the best input 
features and classifier parameters, we used genetic algorithms and a 10-fold 
cross-validation using the average area under the ROC curve (AUC). In the first 
experiment, the original FOT parameters were used as input. We observed a 
significant improvement in accuracy (KNN=0.89 and SVM=0.87) compared with the 
baseline (0.77). The second experiment performed a feature selection on the 
original FOT parameters. This selection did not cause any significant 
improvement in accuracy, but it was useful in identifying more adequate FOT 
parameters. In the third experiment, we performed a feature selection on the 
cross products of the FOT parameters. This selection resulted in a further 
increase in AUC (KNN=SVM=0.91), which allows for high diagnostic accuracy. In 
conclusion, machine learning classifiers can help identify early smoking-induced 
respiratory alterations. The use of FOT cross products and the search for the 
best features and classifier parameters can markedly improve the performance of 
machine learning classifiers.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cmpb.2013.08.004
PMID: 24001924 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1118. Chin J Integr Med. 2015 Dec;21(12):949-54. doi: 10.1007/s11655-013-1339-9. Epub 
2013 Sep 3.

Overview of Taiwan's indigenous ethnopharmacology in the perspective of 
traditional knowledge protection.

Guo JJ(1)(2), Pan W(2), Chen MW(2), Wang CM(2), Wang YT(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Agronomy, Taiwan University, Roosevelt Road, Taipei, 10617, 
Taiwan, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Quality Research in Chinese Medicine, Institute of 
Chinese Medical Sciences, University of Macau, Macau, 999078, China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Quality Research in Chinese Medicine, Institute of 
Chinese Medical Sciences, University of Macau, Macau, 999078, China. 
ytwang@umac.mo.

Ethnopharmacology, the study of ethnic use of drugs, opens up the crucial 
gateway to understanding and promoting traditional medicine in the new age. 
Taiwan is a unique region where traditional medicine and herbal therapeutics 
have been benefiting its people of multiple races for centuries. This article 
overviews Taiwan's indigenous traditional medicine and the emerging status of 
ethnopharmacology study, and outlines the global scenario of the inheritance and 
development of traditional medicine. In such a scope of knowledge protection, 
this article particularly highlights the challenges with bioprospecting and 
biopiracy, and summarizes the current measures for protection of traditional 
knowledge in Taiwan. Finally, based upon these analyses, we propose rational 
strategies for promoting Taiwan's ethnopharmacology, from multiple angles of 
resource, economy, policy and law. We conclude that four measures, namely (1) 
protecting the natural environment of biodiversity, (2) avoiding unnecessary 
conflicts caused by bioprospecting and biopiracy, (3) strengthening the 
international collaboration, and (4) upgrading the legal system of traditional 
intelligence, would be the right paths for Taiwan to protect its invaluable 
heritage of traditional medicine and the knowledge of ethnopharmacology therein.

DOI: 10.1007/s11655-013-1339-9
PMID: 24002709 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1119. Psychol Sci. 2013 Oct;24(10):2048-56. doi: 10.1177/0956797613486982. Epub 2013 
Sep 3.

Literacy and numeracy are more heritable than intelligence in primary school.

Kovas Y(1), Voronin I, Kaydalov A, Malykh SB, Dale PS, Plomin R.

Author information:
(1)1Laboratory for Cognitive Investigations and Behavioural Genetics, Department 
of Psychology, Tomsk State University.

Because literacy and numeracy are the focus of teaching in schools, whereas 
general cognitive ability (g, intelligence) is not, it would be reasonable to 
expect that literacy and numeracy are less heritable than g. Here, we directly 
compare heritabilities of multiple measures of literacy, numeracy, and g in a 
United Kingdom sample of 7,500 pairs of twins assessed longitudinally at ages 7, 
9, and 12. We show that differences between children are significantly and 
substantially more heritable for literacy and numeracy than for g at ages 7 and 
9, but not 12. We suggest that the reason for this counterintuitive result is 
that universal education in the early school years reduces environmental 
disparities so that individual differences that remain are to a greater extent 
due to genetic differences. In contrast, the heritability of g increases during 
development as individuals select and create their own environments correlated 
with their genetic propensities.

DOI: 10.1177/0956797613486982
PMCID: PMC3834736
PMID: 24002885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting Interests: The 
authors declared that they had no conflicts of interest with respect to their 
authorship or the publication of this article.


1120. Psychol Sci. 2013 Oct;24(10):2111-6. doi: 10.1177/0956797613488394. Epub 2013 
Sep 3.

Childhood socioeconomic status amplifies genetic effects on adult intelligence.

Bates TC(1), Lewis GJ, Weiss A.

Author information:
(1)1The University of Edinburgh.

Studies of intelligence in children reveal significantly higher heritability 
among groups with high socioeconomic status (SES) than among groups with low 
SES. These interaction effects, however, have not been examined in adults, when 
between-families environmental effects are reduced. Using 1,702 adult twins 
(aged 24-84) for whom intelligence assessment data were available, we tested for 
interactions between childhood SES and genetic effects, between-families 
environmental effects, and unique environmental effects. Higher SES was 
associated with higher mean intelligence scores. Moreover, the magnitude of 
genetic influences on intelligence was proportional to SES. By contrast, 
environmental influences were constant. These results suggest that rather than 
setting lower and upper bounds on intelligence, genes multiply environmental 
inputs that support intellectual growth. This mechanism implies that increasing 
SES may raise average intelligence but also magnifies individual differences in 
intelligence.

DOI: 10.1177/0956797613488394
PMID: 24002887 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1121. J Psychol. 2013 Sep-Oct;147(5):435-53. doi: 10.1080/00223980.2012.710663.

Individual ambidexterity: exploring and exploiting in dynamic contexts.

Good D(1), Michel EJ.

Author information:
(1)Graziadio School of Business and Management, Pepperdine University, Malibu, 
CA 90263, USA. Darren.Good@pepperdine.edu

Previous research regarding the role of individuals within the organizational 
ambidexterity construct has primarily focused on behavioral characteristics of 
managers. Drawing from the organizational, psychological, and neuroscience 
literatures, this study develops and tests hypotheses concerning the formative 
construct of Individual Ambidexterity (IA), the cognitive abilities necessary to 
balance efforts of exploration and exploitation. In an initial criterion-related 
predictive validity laboratory study, 181 undergraduate students completed 
successive trials in a computer-simulated, real-time dynamic microworld context. 
Findings explained unique variance beyond measures of general intelligence on 
the total score of task adaptive performance. The results indicate a novel 
combination of abilities that may further understanding of how individual 
abilities contribute to the ambidexterity literature.

DOI: 10.1080/00223980.2012.710663
PMID: 24003589 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1122. Anxiety Stress Coping. 2014;27(2):156-75. doi: 10.1080/10615806.2013.832219. 
Epub 2013 Sep 5.

Life outcomes influenced by war-related experiences during the Gulf crisis.

Hadi F(1), Lai BS, Llabre MM.

Author information:
(1)a Department of Educational Psychology , Kuwait University , Kuwait.

This study examined the life outcomes of children exposed to the Gulf crisis in 
1990-1991. We expected war-trauma exposure and psychological distress symptoms 
to predict poorer educational and occupational outcomes. Participants were 151 
Kuwaiti citizens who were assessed during childhood (in 1993; M age = 10.6 
years), and who were reassessed 10 years later in young adulthood (in 2003; M 
age = 21.2 years). Participants completed measures of intelligence, war-trauma 
exposure, posttraumatic stress symptoms, anxiety symptoms, depressive symptoms, 
intervening life events, and life outcomes. Results indicated that war-trauma 
exposure negatively impacted children's educational and occupational outcomes as 
young adults. Boys with higher levels of war-trauma exposure were less likely to 
attend University. Posttraumatic stress and anxiety symptoms also predicted 
poorer educational and occupational outcomes. However, this relationship was not 
significant when we accounted for children's intelligence. Depressive symptoms 
were not predictive of children's educational or occupational outcomes. Results 
suggest that war-trauma exposure may have life-altering effects on children. 
Tailored, early interventions are needed for children exposed to war traumas.

DOI: 10.1080/10615806.2013.832219
PMCID: PMC3877742
PMID: 24003829 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1123. Rev Panam Salud Publica. 2013 Jul;34(1):68-74.

Changing patterns of migration in Latin America: how can research develop 
intelligence for public health?

Cabieses B(1), Tunstall H, Pickett KE, Gideon J.

Author information:
(1)Universidad del Desarrollo, Santiago, Chile. bcabieses@udd.cl

Migration patterns in Latin America have changed significantly in recent 
decades, particularly since the onset of global recession in 2007. These recent 
economic changes have highlighted and exacerbated the weakness of evidence from 
Latin America regarding migration-a crucial determinant of health. Migration 
patterns are constantly evolving in Latin America, but research on migration has 
not developed at the same speed. This article focuses on the need for better 
understanding of the living conditions and health of migrant populations in 
Latin America within the context of the recent global recession. The authors 
explain how new data on migrant well-being could be obtained through improved 
evidence from censuses and ongoing research surveys to 1) better inform 
policy-makers about the needs of migrant populations in Latin America and 2) 
help determine better ways of reaching undocumented immigrants. Longitudinal 
studies on immigrants in Latin America are essential for generating a better 
representation of migrant living conditions and health needs during the initial 
stages of immigration and over time. To help meet this need, the authors support 
the promotion of sustainable sources of data and evidence on the complex 
relationship between migration and health.

PMID: 24006023 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1124. J Basic Clin Physiol Pharmacol. 2013;24(3):191-9. doi: 10.1515/jbcpp-2013-0049.

Temporal and non-temporal processes in the elderly.

Fostick L, Babkoff H.

BACKGROUND: The present study examined whether the reported age-related decline 
in auditory temporal resolution is specific to the temporal domain or rather 
reflects a general decline in auditory perception, including the stimulus 
intensity domain.
METHODS: The performance of 89 healthy participants aged between 21 and 82 years 
with normal hearing was tested on a variety of psychophysical tasks, where 
discrimination was based either on the temporal or on the intensity domains. 
Stimulus levels for all tasks were 40 dB SL (corrected for threshold). 
Participants were also tested on two cognitive tasks: Wechsler Adult 
Intelligence Scale, Third Edition, matrices and digit span.
RESULTS: Findings indicate that age was significantly negatively correlated with 
performance on three of the temporal resolution tasks, namely, dichotic 
temporal-order judgment, spectral temporal-order judgment, and gap detection, 
but not on the intensity discrimination task, thus emphasizing the specificity 
of the age-related decline to the auditory temporal domain.
CONCLUSIONS: The overall results suggest that age-related changes in auditory 
perception are specific to the temporal domain, even when controlling for 
hearing sensitivity and cognitive ability, and are not reflected in other 
aspects of non-temporal perception, such as intensity discrimination.

DOI: 10.1515/jbcpp-2013-0049
PMID: 24006326 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1125. Rev Sci Instrum. 2013 Aug;84(8):083106. doi: 10.1063/1.4818668.

Dual-band infrared remote sensing system with combined long-wave infrared 
imaging and mid-wave infrared spectral analysis.

Fang Z(1), Yi X, Liu X, Zhang W, Zhang T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Mechanical and Electrical Engineering, Xiamen University, 
Xiamen 361005, China.

We present a new optical system for infrared (IR) image-spectrum integration 
remote sensing. The purpose to develop this instrument is to find the key 
spectral characteristics of typical hot target and to explore a new intelligence 
fusion method for the recognition. When mounted on a two-dimensional rotation 
stage, it can track the suspected target by image processing, and then get its 
spectrum to do recognition. It is a dual-band system with long-wave infrared 
(LWIR) imaging and mid-wave infrared (MWIR) spectrum. An IR dichroic 
beamsplitter is used to divide wideband incident infrared into LWIR and MWIR. 
Compared to traditional infrared combined imaging and spectral-analysis 
instruments, it yields higher sensitivity for measuring the IR spectrum. The 
sensors for imaging and spectrum detection are separate, so high spatial 
resolution, frame rate, and spectrum resolution can all be obtained 
simultaneously.

DOI: 10.1063/1.4818668
PMID: 24007052


1126. Neuropsychiatr Dis Treat. 2013;9:1231-7. doi: 10.2147/NDT.S49985. Epub 2013 Aug 
22.

Occlusal traits in developmental dyslexia: a preliminary study.

Perillo L(1), Esposito M, Contiello M, Lucchese A, Santini AC, Carotenuto M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthodontics, Second University of Naples, Naples, Italy.

AIM: The objective of the study reported here was to assess the orthodontic 
features in children affected by developmental dyslexia (DD).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A total of 28 children affected by DD (22 boys, six girls; 
mean age: 9.78 ± 1.69 years) were compared with 51 healthy children (38 boys, 13 
girls; mean age 9.41 ± 1.48; range 7-10 years). Reading and writing skills were 
evaluated along with orthodontic features.
RESULTS: The DD and control groups were not significantly different in terms of 
total intelligence quotient (P = 0.441) and writing skills (P = 0.805 and P = 
0.240, respectively), whereas significant differences were observed between the 
DD group and control group in both word reading (2.018 ± 1.714 vs 0.917 ± 0.563; 
P = 0.000) and non-word reading (2.537 ± 1.543 vs 0.862 ± 0.244; P = 0.000). 
Moreover, for many orthodontic features, there was no significant difference 
between the two groups; only in prevalence of diastemas (57.14%, P = 0.006), 
midline diastemas (46.42%, P = 0.007), overbite > 4 mm (71.42%, P = 0.006) and 
overjet > 4 mm (53.57%, P = 0.001), was there a statistically significant 
difference. According to univariate logistic regression analysis, the presence 
of diastemas (odds ratio [OR] 4.33; 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.61-11.65), 
midline diastemas (OR 4.68; 95% CI 1.61-13.43), an overbite >4 mm (OR 1.75; 95% 
CI 0.64-4.71), or an overjet >4 mm (OR 2.76; 95% CI 1.06-7.20) seems to play a 
role in the relationship between occlusal abnormalities and DD in children.
CONCLUSION: Children with DD tend to present with altered dental features, 
particularly in the area of the incisors, suggesting that a persistently 
different tongue kinematic profile may thus affect both the developmental 
variability of the tongue and lip and the occlusion.

DOI: 10.2147/NDT.S49985
PMCID: PMC3762607
PMID: 24009421


1127. Front Neurosci. 2013 Aug 29;7:152. doi: 10.3389/fnins.2013.00152.

Deceptively simple … The "deception-general" ability and the need to put the 
liar under the spotlight.

Wright GR(1), Berry CJ, Bird G.

Author information:
(1)Social Interaction Lab, Department of Psychological Sciences, Birkbeck, 
University of London London, UK.

This Focused Review expands upon our original paper (You can't kid a kidder": 
Interaction between production and detection of deception in an interactive 
deception task. Frontiers in Human Neuroscience, 6:87). In that paper we 
introduced a new socially interactive, laboratory-based task, the Deceptive 
Interaction Task (DeceIT), and used it to measure individuals' ability to lie, 
their ability to detect the lies of others, and potential individual difference 
measures contributing to these abilities. We showed that the two skills were 
correlated; better liars made better lie detectors (a "deception general" 
ability) and this ability seemed to be independent of cognitive (IQ) and 
emotional (EQ) intelligence. Here, following the Focused Review format, we 
outline the method and results of the original paper and comment more on the 
value of lab-based experimental studies of deception, which have attracted 
criticism in recent years. While acknowledging that experimental paradigms may 
fail to recreate the full complexity and potential seriousness of real-world 
deceptive behavior, we suggest that lab-based deception paradigms can offer 
valuable insight into ecologically-valid deceptive behavior. The use of the 
DeceIT procedure enabled deception to be studied in an interactive setting, with 
motivated participants, and importantly allowed the study of both the liar and 
the lie detector within the same deceptive interaction. It is our thesis that by 
addressing deception more holistically-by bringing the liar into the "spotlight" 
which is typically trained exclusively on the lie detector-we may further 
enhance our understanding of deception.

DOI: 10.3389/fnins.2013.00152
PMCID: PMC3756307
PMID: 24009549


1128. J Adolesc. 2013 Oct;36(5):883-92. doi: 10.1016/j.adolescence.2013.07.001. Epub 
2013 Jul 31.

Effects of an emotional intelligence intervention on aggression and empathy 
among adolescents.

Castillo R(1), Salguero JM, Fernández-Berrocal P, Balluerka N.

Author information:
(1)University of Malaga, Campus de Teatinos s/n, 29071 Malaga, Spain. 
ruthcastillo@uma.es

The aim of this study was to explore the effects of a two-year intervention 
grounded in the ability model of emotional intelligence (EI) on aggression and 
empathy among adolescents. Eight Spanish public schools volunteered to 
participate in the research. A total of 590 adolescents (46% boys) were randomly 
assigned to either the EI training group or control group conditions. Students 
in the EI training group reported lower levels of physical/verbal aggression, 
anger, hostility, personal distress and fantasy compared to students in the 
control group. Additionally, the EI program was particularly effective for 
males' empathic abilities. These findings confirm the effectiveness of social 
and emotional learning interventions in Spanish academic contexts and extend the 
literature of gender-related differences during adolescence. Study limitations 
and future research directions are also considered.

Copyright © 2013 The Foundation for Professionals in Services for Adolescents. 
Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.adolescence.2013.07.001
PMID: 24011104 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1129. Epilepsy Behav. 2013 Nov;29(2):337-43. doi: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2013.07.027. Epub 
2013 Sep 4.

Neurocognitive and psychological profiles of adult patients with epilepsy in 
Hong Kong.

Tang V(1), Kwan P, Poon WS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Psychology, Prince of Wales Hospital, Shatin, Hong 
Kong Special Administrative Region; Division of Neurosurgery, Department of 
Surgery, Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin, Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region. Electronic address: venustang@gmail.com.

Cognitive deficits and psychological impairments are often associated with 
seizures. In order to describe the neuropsychological profiles of adult patients 
with epilepsy (PWEs) in Hong Kong China, a total of 186 PWEs were recruited with 
102 being drug-responsive and 84 being drug-resistant. Symptoms of depression, 
anxiety, and epilepsy-specific quality of life (QOL) were measured. Cognitive 
assessments consisted of intelligence, memory, verbal and visual abilities, and 
executive function. Neurocognitive impairments were prevalent among PWEs, and 
patients with drug-resistant epilepsy had significantly more impaired 
psychological and cognitive profiles. Thirty-nine percent and 30% of patients 
with drug-resistant epilepsy reported moderate to severe levels of anxiety and 
depression, respectively, versus 16% and 7% of patients with drug-responsive 
epilepsy. The most commonly occurring cognitive deficit was memory. Thirty-five 
percent to 47% of patients with drug-resistant epilepsy and 26% to 35% of 
patients with drug-responsive epilepsy were compromised in verbal recall memory. 
Our findings also suggested significant correlations between psychological 
well-being and cognitive performance. Patients who reported more psychological 
symptoms tended to perform worse in neurocognitive tests. Identification and 
management of neuropsychological difficulties in PWEs are important and should 
be included in primary epilepsy care.

© 2013.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2013.07.027
PMID: 24011399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1130. Child Abuse Negl. 2014 Jan;38(1):65-75. doi: 10.1016/j.chiabu.2013.07.017. Epub 
2013 Sep 6.

Relationship between adverse early experiences, stressors, psychosocial 
resources and wellbeing.

Mc Elroy S(1), Hevey D(2).

Author information:
(1)Research Centre for Psychological Health, School of Psychology, Trinity 
College Dublin, Aras An Phairsaigh, College Green, Dublin 2, Ireland; Family and 
Psychosocial Services, Great Ormond Street Hospital, Great Ormond Street, 
London, WC1N 3JH, UK; St Patrick's University Hospital, James Street, Dublin 8, 
Ireland.
(2)Research Centre for Psychological Health, School of Psychology, Trinity 
College Dublin, Aras An Phairsaigh, College Green, Dublin 2, Ireland.

The study examined a diathesis stress model of the relationship between adverse 
child experiences (ACEs), stressors and psychosocial resources to explore their 
relationship with wellbeing. A cross sectional study was conducted across two 
mental health and addiction treatment centers. 176 individuals were interviewed 
using a demographics form, SCID-DSM-IV(First, Spitzer, Gibbon, &Williams, 2002), 
Child Trauma Questionnaire (Bernstein & Fink, 1998), NEO-Five Factor Inventory 
(Costa & McCrae, 1992), Trait Emotional Intelligence Questionnaire (Petrides, 
2009), The Coping, Inventory for Stressful Situations (CISS) (Endler & Parker, 
1990), Recent Life Events Questionnaire (Department of Health, 1985) and 
perceived social support from family, friends and religion. Multiple, 
regressions and correlations were used to analyze the data. All early 
experiences, except physical, abuse and death of a parent in childhood, were 
significantly correlated with increased number of, stressors and lower wellbeing 
scores. This is possibly because of sample specific issues. Number of stressors 
partially mediated the relationship between ACEs and wellbeing. Increased number 
of ACEs was related to higher neuroticism and emotion-focused coping and lower 
conscientiousness, agreeableness, trait emotional intelligence and task coping 
scores. These resources were significantly related to increased stressors and 
lower wellbeing. Distraction and emotion coping significantly moderated the 
relationship between number of stressors and wellbeing. These findings support 
the diathesis stress model and indicate that there are significant relationships 
between ACEs, psychosocial, resources, stressors and wellbeing. Recommendations 
to improve wellbeing are discussed.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chiabu.2013.07.017
PMID: 24011494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1131. Psychiatry Res. 2013 Dec 30;210(3):1147-53. doi: 10.1016/j.psychres.2013.08.033. 
Epub 2013 Sep 5.

Heartless and cunning? Intelligence in adolescents with antisocial behavior and 
psychopathic traits.

Allen JL(1), Briskman J, Humayun S, Dadds MR, Scott S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology and Human Development, Institute of Education, 
University of London, 20 Bedford Way, London WC1H 0AL, United Kingdom; National 
Academy for Parenting Research, Institute of Psychiatry, Kings College London, 
London, United Kingdom. Electronic address: j.allen@ioe.ac.uk.

Clinical theory predicts that individuals high in psychopathic traits possess 
average or above average intelligence; however findings in adult and child 
samples have been mixed. The present study aimed to investigate (1) the 
relationship between verbal and nonverbal intelligence and the three dimensions 
of psychopathy (callous-unemotional (CU) traits, narcissism, impulsivity); and 
(2) whether these dimensions moderate the association between verbal and 
nonverbal intelligence and the severity of antisocial behavior. Participants 
were 361 adolescents aged 9-18 years (68% boys) and their parents, drawn from 
four samples with different levels of risk for antisocial behavior. Families 
were disadvantaged and 25% were from an ethnic minority. Verbal intelligence was 
unrelated to parent-reported CU traits, narcissism or impulsivity after 
controlling for gender, sociodemographic disadvantage, sample, antisocial 
behavior and hyperactivity. Narcissism, but not CU traits or impulsivity, was 
significantly related to lower nonverbal IQ. None of the three psychopathic 
trait dimensions moderated the relationship between verbal or nonverbal IQ and 
antisocial behavior. CU traits, narcissism, hyperactivity and inclusion in the 
very high or high risk samples were significantly related to more severe 
antisocial behavior. Results contradict the widely held view that psychopathic 
traits are associated with better than average verbal or nonverbal intelligence.

Crown Copyright © 2013 Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2013.08.033
PMID: 24011851 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1132. Child Adolesc Psychiatr Clin N Am. 2013 Oct;22(4):715-26. doi: 
10.1016/j.chc.2013.04.007. Epub 2013 Jun 18.

Neurocognition in early-onset schizophrenia.

Frangou S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, Box 1230, 
1425 Madison Avenue, New York, NY 10029, USA. Electronic address: 
sophia.frangou@mssm.edu.

Cognitive impairment is recognized as a central feature of schizophrenia. 
Early-onset schizophrenia (EOS) represents a more severe variant of the disorder 
associated with onset in childhood or adolescence. Examination of the cognitive 
abnormalities of EOS offers the opportunity to explore how disease-related 
mechanisms may affect facets of cognitive development. This article summarizes 
and synthesizes available data with regards to the profile of cognitive 
impairments in EOS, their severity, and their evolution over the course of the 
disorder.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chc.2013.04.007
PMID: 24012082 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1133. Am J Geriatr Psychiatry. 2014 Dec;22(12):1391-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.jagp.2013.04.017. Epub 2013 Sep 5.

Comparison of anxiety as reported by older people with intellectual disabilities 
and by older people with normal intelligence.

Hermans H(1), Beekman AT(2), Evenhuis HM(3).

Author information:
(1)Intellectual Disability Medicine, Department of General Practice, Erasmus MC 
University Medical Center Rotterdam, The Netherlands; Amarant, Healthcare 
Organization for People With Intellectual Disabilities, Tilburg, The 
Netherlands. Electronic address: h.hermans.1@erasmusmc.nl.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, VU University Medical Center, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(3)Intellectual Disability Medicine, Department of General Practice, Erasmus MC 
University Medical Center Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVES: Older people with intellectual disabilities (ID) may experience more 
and different symptoms of anxiety than older people with normal intelligence.
STUDY QUESTIONS: (1) Is the reported severity of anxiety in this group similar 
to that in the general older population; (2) Are specific anxiety symptoms 
reported as frequently by both groups?
DESIGN: Cross-sectional.
SETTING: Formal Dutch intellectual disability services and Dutch 
population-based study.
PARTICIPANTS: One hundred fifty-four participants of the Healthy Ageing and 
Intellectual Disability study with mild or moderate ID (IQ <70), aged 55-85 
years, and 2,917 participants of the Longitudinal Aging Study Amsterdam with 
normal intelligence, aged 55-85 years.
MEASUREMENTS: The general anxiety subscale of the Hospital Anxiety and 
Depression Scale.
RESULTS: Mean (standard deviation) Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale total 
score of subjects with ID was significantly higher than that of subjects with 
normal intelligence (3.53 [3.03]) versus 2.53 [3.30]; p <0.01), whereas the 
percentage of scores above cutoff in both groups was similar. Four of 7 items 
were more often reported as present by subjects with ID: "tense or wound up 
feelings," "frightened feelings," "worrying thoughts," and "sudden feelings of 
panic."
CONCLUSIONS: Older people with ID report more symptoms of anxiety than older 
people with normal intelligence. Tense feelings and worrying especially need 
more attention, because more than one-half of all older people with ID reported 
such symptoms.

Copyright © 2014 American Association for Geriatric Psychiatry. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jagp.2013.04.017
PMID: 24012225 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1134. Epilepsy Behav. 2013 Nov;29(2):322-5. doi: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2013.07.033. Epub 
2013 Sep 5.

Fine motor skills in children with rolandic epilepsy.

Ayaz M(1), Kara B, Soylu N, Ayaz AB.

Author information:
(1)Sakarya University Training and Research Hospital, Child and Adolescent 
Psychiatry Outpatient Clinic, Sakarya, Turkey. Electronic address: 
ayazmuhammed@yahoo.com.

This study aimed to evaluate fine motor skills in children with rolandic 
epilepsy (RE). The research included 44 children diagnosed with typical RE and 
44 controls matched in terms of age, gender, and level of education. Fine motor 
skills were evaluated with the Purdue Pegboard Test, and intelligence was 
measured with the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children. After controlling 
for the effect of intelligence on fine motor skills, the results showed that the 
children with RE did not perform as well as the controls in the PPT dominant 
hand, both hands, and assembly subtests. Epileptic focus, treatment status, type 
of antiepileptic treatment, age at the time of the first seizure, time since the 
last seizure, and total number of seizures did not affect motor skills. Rolandic 
epilepsy negatively affected fine motor skills regardless of the children's 
level of intelligence.

© 2013.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2013.07.033
PMID: 24012511 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1135. PLoS One. 2013 Aug 27;8(8):e71925. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0071925. 
eCollection 2013.

Usefulness of parent-completed ASQ for neurodevelopmental screening of preterm 
children at five years of age.

Halbwachs M(1), Muller JB, Nguyen The Tich S, de La Rochebrochard E, Gascoin G, 
Branger B, Rouger V, Rozé JC, Flamant C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neonatal Medicine, Nantes University Hospital, Nantes, France.

INTRODUCTION: Preterm children are at greater risk of developmental impairment 
and require close follow-up for early and optimal medical care. Our goal was to 
examine use of the parent-completed Ages and Stages Questionnaire (ASQ) as a 
screening tool for neurodevelopmental disabilities in preterm infants at five 
years of age.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A total of 648 preterm children (<35 weeks gestational 
age) born between 2003 and 2004 and included in the regional Loire Infant 
Follow-up network were evaluated at five years of age. ASQ was compared with two 
validated tools (Intelligence Quotient and Global School Adaptation Score) and 
the impact of maternal education on the accuracy of this questionnaire was 
assessed.
RESULTS: Overall ASQ scores for predicting full-scale IQ<85 and GSA score 
produced an area under the receiver operating characteristic curve of 0.73±0.03 
and 0.77±0.03, respectively. An ASQ cut-off value of 285 had optimal 
discriminatory power for identifying children with IQ scores<85 and GSA scores 
in the first quintile. ASQ values<285 were significantly associated with a 
higher risk of non-optimal neurologic outcomes (sensitivity of 0.80, specificity 
of 0.54 for IQ<85). ASQ values>285 were not distinctive for mild delay or normal 
development. In children with developmental delay, no difference was found when 
ASQ scores according to maternal education levels were analyzed.
CONCLUSIONS: ASQ at five years is a simple and cost-effective tool that can 
detect severe developmental delay in preterm children regardless of maternal 
education level, while its capacity to identify children with mild delay appears 
to be more limited.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0071925
PMCID: PMC3754941
PMID: 24014166 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


1136. Am Psychol. 2013 Sep;68(6):467-8. doi: 10.1037/a0032874.

George A. Miller (1920-2012).

Pinker S(1).

Author information:
(1)Harvard University.

Presents an obituary for George A. Miller (1920-2012). Miller ranks among the 
most important psychologists of the 20th century. In addition to writing one of 
the best known papers in the history of psychology ("The Magical Number Seven, 
Plus or Minus Two: Some Limits on Our Capacity for Processing Information," 
published in Psychological Review in 1956), Miller also fomented the cognitive 
revolution, invented psycholinguistics and cognitive psychology, imported 
powerful ideas from the theories of information, communication, grammar, 
semantics, and artificial intelligence, and left us a sparkling oeuvre that 
proves that a rigorous scientist needn't write in soggy prose. Honors rained 
down on Miller. APA gave him the Award for Distinguished Scientific 
Contributions (1963), the American Psychological Foundation Gold Medal Award for 
Life Achievement in Psychological Science (1990), the William James Book Award 
(1992, for The Science of Words), and the Award for Lifetime Contributions to 
Psychology (2003), and named a prize after him, as did the Cognitive 
Neuroscience Society. Miller was also honored by the Association for 
Psychological Science and the American Speech and Hearing Association. In 2000, 
he won the John P. McGovern Award in the Behavioral Sciences from the American 
Association for the Advancement of Science, and in 1991, the National Medal of 
Science, the country's highest scientific honor.

© 2013 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/a0032874
PMID: 24016117 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1137. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 2013 May;34(5):520-2.

[Risk factors related to mental disorder in patients with craniocerebral 
injury].

[Article in Chinese]

Xu SQ(1), Chen SM, Zhang DK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nursing, Shaoxing University, Shaoxing, China. 
shuiqinxu@sina.com

OBJECTIVE: To explore the correlation between mental disorder and craniocerebral 
injury, and notifying its related risk factors.
METHODS: 342 patients from Sep. 2008 to Sep. 2012 with craniocerebral injury 
were selected and related clinical data on general their conditions, including 
sex, age, educational level, satisfaction on careers and relations to family 
were collected. All the patients received CT-scans to the head, IQ test, MQ 
test, SCID-1/P, PDQC and SCICP detection. Multivariate logistic regression was 
used to analyze the general information and cerebral injurious conditions of 
patients regarding the incidence of mental disorders.
RESULTS: 249 patients with mental disorder were noticed out of the total 342 
patients with craniocerebral injury, with the incidence rate as 72.8% including 
117 depression (47.0%), 95 anxiety disorders (38.2%), 27 mania (10.8%), 69 
intelligence and memory disorders (27.7%) cases. Data from correlation analysis 
showed that factors as sex, age, educational level, satisfaction on careers and 
family of patients as well as type, severity and location of the craniocerebral 
injuries appeared to have important correlation with mental disorder.
RESULTS: also showed that the age of patients (OR > 1.04), severity and location 
of the craniocerebral injuries (OR1 > 1.28, OR2 > 1.31) were independent risk 
factors (P < 0.05).
CONCLUSION: The age of patients, severity and location of the craniocerebral 
injuries were independent risk factors for mental disorder in patients with 
craniocerebral injury.

PMID: 24016447 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1138. Acta Psychol (Amst). 2013 Oct;144(2):424-32. doi: 10.1016/j.actpsy.2013.08.002. 
Epub 2013 Sep 7.

Is the fluency of language outputs related to individual differences in 
intelligence and executive function?

Engelhardt PE(1), Nigg JT, Ferreira F.

Author information:
(1)University of East Anglia, United Kingdom. Electronic address: 
p.engelhardt@uea.ac.uk.

There has been little research on the fluency of language production and 
individual difference variables, such as intelligence and executive function. In 
this study, we report data from 106 participants who completed a battery of 
standardized cognitive tasks and a sentence production task. For the sentence 
production task, participants were presented with two objects and a verb and 
their task was to formulate a sentence. Four types of disfluency were examined: 
filled pauses (e.g. uh, um), unfilled pauses, repetitions, and repairs. 
Repetitions occur when the speaker suspends articulation and then repeats the 
previous word/phrase, and repairs occur when the speaker suspends articulation 
and then starts over with a different word/phrase. Hierarchical structural 
equation modeling revealed a significant relationship between repair 
disfluencies and inhibition. Conclusions focus on the role of individual 
differences in cognitive ability and their role in models and theories of 
language production.

© 2013.

DOI: 10.1016/j.actpsy.2013.08.002
PMCID: PMC4207434
PMID: 24018099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1139. Stud Health Technol Inform. 2013;193:332-61.

Issues of data governance associated with data mining in medical research: 
experiences from an empirical study.

Nahar J(1), Imam T, Tickle KS, Garcia-Alonso D.

Author information:
(1)Central Queensland University, Queensland, Australia.

This chapter is a review of data mining techniques used in medical research. It 
will cover the existing applications of these techniques in the identification 
of diseases, and also present the authors' research experiences in medical 
disease diagnosis and analysis. A computational diagnosis approach can have a 
significant impact on accurate diagnosis and result in time and cost effective 
solutions. The chapter will begin with an overview of computational intelligence 
concepts, followed by details on different classification algorithms. Use of 
association learning, a well recognised data mining procedure, will also be 
discussed. Many of the datasets considered in existing medical data mining 
research are imbalanced, and the chapter focuses on this issue as well. Lastly, 
the chapter outlines the need of data governance in this research domain.

PMID: 24018527 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1140. BMJ Qual Saf. 2014 Feb;23(2):106-15. doi: 10.1136/bmjqs-2013-001947. Epub 2013 
Sep 9.

Culture and behaviour in the English National Health Service: overview of 
lessons from a large multimethod study.

Dixon-Woods M(1), Baker R, Charles K, Dawson J, Jerzembek G, Martin G, McCarthy 
I, McKee L, Minion J, Ozieranski P, Willars J, Wilkie P, West M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, University of Leicester, , Leicester, UK.

Comment in
    doi: 10.1136/bmjqs-2013-002471.

BACKGROUND: Problems of quality and safety persist in health systems worldwide. 
We conducted a large research programme to examine culture and behaviour in the 
English National Health Service (NHS).
METHODS: Mixed-methods study involving collection and triangulation of data from 
multiple sources, including interviews, surveys, ethnographic case studies, 
board minutes and publicly available datasets. We narratively synthesised data 
across the studies to produce a holistic picture and in this paper present a 
high-level summary.
RESULTS: We found an almost universal desire to provide the best quality of 
care. We identified many 'bright spots' of excellent caring and practice and 
high-quality innovation across the NHS, but also considerable inconsistency. 
Consistent achievement of high-quality care was challenged by unclear goals, 
overlapping priorities that distracted attention, and compliance-oriented 
bureaucratised management. The institutional and regulatory environment was 
populated by multiple external bodies serving different but overlapping 
functions. Some organisations found it difficult to obtain valid insights into 
the quality of the care they provided. Poor organisational and information 
systems sometimes left staff struggling to deliver care effectively and 
disempowered them from initiating improvement. Good staff support and management 
were also highly variable, though they were fundamental to culture and were 
directly related to patient experience, safety and quality of care.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results highlight the importance of clear, challenging goals 
for high-quality care. Organisations need to put the patient at the centre of 
all they do, get smart intelligence, focus on improving organisational systems, 
and nurture caring cultures by ensuring that staff feel valued, respected, 
engaged and supported.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjqs-2013-001947
PMCID: PMC3913222
PMID: 24019507 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1141. Assist Technol. 2013 Fall;25(3):139-48. doi: 10.1080/10400435.2012.732654.

Smart grab bars: a potential initiative to encourage bath grab bar use in 
community dwelling older adults.

Guitard P(1), Sveistrup H, Fahim A, Leonard C.

Author information:
(1)Occupational Therapy Program, School of Rehabilitation Sciences, University 
of Ottawa, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada. guitardp@uottawa.ca

Grab bars are often prescribed to ensure safe and independent bathing and 
toileting. Studies have shown that seniors do not always use grab bars when they 
are present or are reluctant to install them due to the associated stigma. This 
study sought to determine if artificial intelligence could increase grab bar use 
by seniors and to determine the efficacy of different cues (auditory, visual, 
and audiovisual combination) on the frequency of use of a grab bar. Sixty-nine 
healthy participants aged 60 to 86 years (average 68.7 years) were randomly 
assigned to three subgroups. Each subgroup tested two different cueing 
conditions: the no cue and one of three cued conditions (visual, auditory, or 
combined audio-visual). Results suggest that the smart grab increased seniors' 
grab bars use by 39% and that the effect was maintained after removal of the 
cues. Participants preferred the visual cue but the auditory cue was the most 
powerful. Results suggest that artificial intelligence may be an interesting 
avenue to increase grab bar use in community-dwelling older adults and in people 
requiring supervision to use grab bars on a regular basis to decrease the risk 
of falls during bathing or bathtub transfers.

DOI: 10.1080/10400435.2012.732654
PMID: 24020152 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1142. Child Adolesc Psychiatry Ment Health. 2013 Sep 11;7(1):32. doi: 
10.1186/1753-2000-7-32.

Treating clients with Asperger's syndrome and autism.

Woods AG(1), Mahdavi E, Ryan JP.

Author information:
(1)Chemistry and Biomolecular Science, Clarkson University, 8 Clarkson Avenue, 
Potsdam, NY 13699-5810, USA. awoods@clarkson.edu.

Asperger's syndrome (AS) is a form of autism spectrum disorder (ASD) affecting 
many individuals today. Although neurobiological correlates for AS have been 
identified, like many ASDs, AS is not completely understood. AS as a distinct 
disorder is also not universally accepted and in the DSM-5 AS is not considered 
a separate nosological entity. In contrast to some other ASDs, individuals with 
AS are commonly characterized by having standard or higher than average 
intelligence, yet difficulties in social skills and communication can present 
challenges for these individuals in everyday functioning. Counseling a person 
with AS or autism presents a unique challenge for the mental health care 
provider. We have compiled this review consisting of some recent ideas regarding 
counseling the client with AS with the goal of providing some clinical insights 
and practical clues. Although the focus of the present paper is largely on AS, 
many of these strategies could also apply to individuals with high-functioning 
autism (HFA).

DOI: 10.1186/1753-2000-7-32
PMCID: PMC3851204
PMID: 24020859


1143. Res Dev Disabil. 2013 Nov;34(11):3709-19. doi: 10.1016/j.ridd.2013.07.025. Epub 
2013 Sep 7.

The ex-Gaussian distribution of reaction times in adolescents with 
attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder.

Gu SL(1), Gau SS, Tzang SW, Hsu WY.

Author information:
(1)Graduate Institute of Behavioral Sciences, College of Medicine, Chang Gung 
University, Tao-Yuan, Taiwan.

We investigated the three parameters (mu, sigma, tau) of ex-Gaussian 
distribution of RT derived from the Conners' continuous performance test (CCPT) 
and examined the moderating effects of the energetic factors (the inter-stimulus 
intervals (ISIs) and Blocks) among these three parameters, especially tau, an 
index describing the positive skew of RT distribution. We assessed 195 
adolescents with DSM-IV ADHD, and 90 typically developing (TD) adolescents, aged 
10-16. Participants and their parents received psychiatric interviews to confirm 
the diagnosis of ADHD and other psychiatric disorders. Participants also 
received intelligence (WISC-III) and CCPT assessments. We found that 
participants with ADHD had a smaller mu, and larger tau. As the ISI/Block 
increased, the magnitude of group difference in tau increased. Among the three 
ex-Gaussian parameters, tau was positively associated with omission errors, and 
mu was negatively associated with commission errors. The moderating effects of 
ISIs and Blocks on tau parameters suggested that the ex-Gaussian parameters 
could offer more information about the attention state in vigilance task, 
especially in ADHD.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ridd.2013.07.025
PMID: 24021389 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1144. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 2013 Sep 11:10.1007/s00213-013-3255-x. doi: 
10.1007/s00213-013-3255-x. Online ahead of print.

Neurocognitive effects of ketamine in treatment-resistant major depression: 
association with antidepressant response.

Murrough JW(1), Wan LB, Iacoviello B, Collins KA, Solon C, Glicksberg B, Perez 
AM, Mathew SJ, Charney DS, Iosifescu DV, Burdick KE.

Author information:
(1)Mood and Anxiety Disorders Program, Department of Psychiatry, Icahn School of 
Medicine at Mount Sinai, One Gustave L. Levy Place, Box 1230, New York, NY, 
10029, USA, james.murrough@mssm.edu.

RATIONALE: The N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) glutamate receptor antagonist 
ketamine has demonstrated rapid antidepressant effects in patients with 
treatment-resistant depression (TRD). Despite the promise of a novel and 
urgently needed treatment for refractory depression, concerns regarding 
potential adverse neurocognitive effects of ketamine remain.
OBJECTIVES: Although extensive research has been conducted in healthy 
volunteers, there is a paucity of studies examining the neurocognitive effects 
of ketamine in depressed patients. Therefore, the aims of the current study were 
to characterize the relationship between baseline neurocognition and 
antidepressant response to ketamine, measure the acute impact of ketamine on 
neurocognition, and investigate the relationship between acute neurocognitive 
effects of ketamine and antidepressant response.
METHODS: Neurocognitive functioning was assessed in 25 patients with TRD using a 
comprehensive battery: estimated premorbid intelligence quotient (IQ), current 
IQ, and tests from the MATRICS Consensus Cognitive Battery (MCCB). A subset of 
the MCCB was repeated immediately following a 40-min intravenous infusion of 
ketamine (0.5 mg/kg).
RESULTS: Patients who responded to ketamine 24 h following treatment had poorer 
baseline neurocognitive performance relative to nonresponders and, in 
particular, slower processing speed (F = 8.42; df = 23; p = 0.008). Ketamine was 
associated with selective impairments in memory recall, and the degree of 
cognitive change carried negative prognostic significance (e.g., negative 
cognitive effects immediately after ketamine predicted lower response rate at 
24 h; Fisher's exact test two-sided p = 0.027).
CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, our findings suggest a potential baseline 
neurocognitive predictor of ketamine response and an inverse relationship 
between the cognitive effects of ketamine and antidepressant efficacy.

DOI: 10.1007/s00213-013-3255-x
PMCID: PMC3952038
PMID: 24022236

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest In the past two years, Dr. 
Murrough has received research support from Evotec, Janssen Pharmaceuticals and 
Avanir. Dr. Iosifescu has consulted for CNS Response, Inc and as received 
grant/research support through Mount Sinai School of Medicine from Brainsway, 
Euthymics Bioscience Inc, Neosync and Shire. In the next two years it is likely 
he will receive grants from Hoffmann-La Roche Inc and Astrazeneca LP. Dr. 
Charney has been named as an inventor on a pending use-patent of ketamine for 
the treatment of depression. If ketamine were shown to be effective in the 
treatment of depression and received approval from the Food and Drug 
Administration for this indication, Dr. Charney and Mount Sinai School of 
Medicine could benefit financially. Dr. Mathew has received consulting fees or 
research support from Allergan, AstraZeneca, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Cephalon, 
Inc, Corcept, Johnson & Johnson, Noven, Roche, Takeda. All other authors declare 
no conflict of interest.


1145. Autism Res. 2014 Feb;7(1):28-39. doi: 10.1002/aur.1328. Epub 2013 Sep 10.

Do children with autism re-enact object movements rather than imitate 
demonstrator actions?

Custance DM(1), Mayer JL, Kumar E, Hill E, Heaton PF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Goldsmiths College, London, UK.

It has been suggested that autism-specific imitative deficits may be reduced or 
even spared in object-related activities. However, most previous research has 
not sufficiently distinguished object movement reenactment (learning about the 
ways in which object move) from imitation (learning about the topography of 
demonstrated actions). Twenty children with autism (CWA) and 20 typically 
developing children (TDC) were presented with puzzle boxes containing prizes. 
Test objects and experimental conditions were designed to isolate object- and 
action-related aspects of demonstrations. There were four types of video 
demonstrations: (a) a full demonstration by an adult; (b) a ghost demonstration 
with object movements alone; (c) mimed solutions demonstrated adjacent to the 
objects; and (d) random actions performed on the surface of the objects. There 
were no significant between-group differences in the degree to which CWA and TDC 
matched the full demonstrations, the actual demonstrations or in their times to 
first solution in any of the conditions. Although there was no clear imitative 
deficit in the CWA, regression analyses were conducted to explore in more detail 
whether diagnosis, verbal intelligence quotient (VIQ), nonverbal IQ NVIQ, age or 
motor coordination predicted performance. The results are discussed in relation 
to the use of extrinsic vs. intrinsic rewards and the interplay between motor 
coordination and the relative rigidity vs. pliability of objects.

© 2013 International Society for Autism Research, Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/aur.1328
PMID: 24022995 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1146. Aviat Space Environ Med. 2013 Sep;84(9):980-5. doi: 10.3357/asem.3133.2013.

Neuropsychological assessment of decision making in alcohol-dependent commercial 
pilots.

Georgemiller R(1), Machizawa S, Young KM, Martin CN.

Author information:
(1)Georgemiller, Whyte & Associates, PC, Des Plaines, IL, USA. 
rgeorgemiller@hotmail.com

BACKGROUND: The aim of this exploratory archival study was to discern the 
utility of the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT) in identifying adaptive decision-making 
capacities among pilots with a history of alcohol dependence both with and 
without Cluster B personality features.
METHODS: Participants included 18 male airmen at the rank of captain with a 
history of receiving alcohol dependence treatment and subsequent referral for a 
fitness-for-duty evaluation. Data from prior comprehensive neuropsychological 
evaluations conducted in a private practice setting at the mandate of the FAA 
utilizing criteria outlined in the HIMS program was used. ANOVA was conducted to 
compare pilots with (N = 4) and without Cluster B personality features (N = 14) 
on measures of decisionmaking capacities, intelligence, and executive 
functioning.
RESULTS: Pilots with Cluster B personality features were found to have a 
significantly lower Total Net T-Score on IGT (M = 35.00, SD = 9.27) than pilots 
without features of Cluster B (M = 56.36, SD = 9.55). Furthermore, with the 
exception of the first 20 cards (i.e., Net 1); the groups significantly differed 
in their Net scores. No statistically significant difference was found on 
airmen's intelligence and executive functioning.
DISCUSSION: The present study found that alcohol-dependent airmen with Cluster B 
personality features evidenced significantly poorer decisionmaking capacities as 
measured by the ICT in comparison to alcohol dependent airman without Cluster B 
personality features. Implications and limitations of the study are discussed.

DOI: 10.3357/asem.3133.2013
PMID: 24024311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1147. Logoped Phoniatr Vocol. 2013 Oct;38(3):115-25. doi: 
10.3109/14015439.2013.810303. Epub 2013 Sep 12.

Exploring expressivity and emotion with artificial voice and speech 
technologies.

Pauletto S(1), Balentine B, Pidcock C, Jones K, Bottaci L, Aretoulaki M, Wells 
J, Mundy DP, Balentine J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Theatre, Film and Television, University of York , UK.

Emotion in audio-voice signals, as synthesized by text-to-speech (TTS) 
technologies, was investigated to formulate a theory of expression for user 
interface design. Emotional parameters were specified with markup tags, and the 
resulting audio was further modulated with post-processing techniques. Software 
was then developed to link a selected TTS synthesizer with an automatic speech 
recognition (ASR) engine, producing a chatbot that could speak and listen. Using 
these two artificial voice subsystems, investigators explored both artistic and 
psychological implications of artificial speech emotion. Goals of the 
investigation were interdisciplinary, with interest in musical composition, 
augmentative and alternative communication (AAC), commercial voice announcement 
applications, human-computer interaction (HCI), and artificial intelligence 
(AI). The work-in-progress points towards an emerging interdisciplinary ontology 
for artificial voices. As one study output, HCI tools are proposed for future 
collaboration.

DOI: 10.3109/14015439.2013.810303
PMID: 24024543 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1148. Zhonghua Gan Zang Bing Za Zhi. 2013 May;21(5):385-8. doi: 
10.3760/cma.j.issn.1007-3418.2013.05.017.

[Ornithine aspartate and naloxone combined therapy for hepatic encephalopathy 
affects cognitive function, prognosis, and neuropeptide levels].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhou ZW(1), Zhong XN, Zhou BY, Xiang JF, Wang RH, Yi J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Statistics, Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing, 
China.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the potential effects on cognitive function, 
prognosis, and neuropeptide levels of patients in response to combination 
therapy with ornithine aspartate plus naloxone for hepatic encephalopathy.
METHODS: Eighty-four consecutive patients diagnosed with hepatic encephalopathy 
were randomly divided into two equal groups. The control group (n = 42) received 
traditional medical treatment, and the research group (n = 42) received the 
traditional medical treatment as well as the combination therapy with ornithine 
aspartate plus naloxone. The supplemental treatment was comprised of daily 
intravenous injection of 10-15 g ornithine aspartate in 250 ml of 5% glucose 
plus intravenous drip of 3 mg naloxone in 100 ml of 5% glucose, and was given in 
7-day cycles for one or two cycles. The cognitive function of patients was 
assessed by Hasegawa Intelligence Scale (HDS) and Mini-Mental State Examination 
(MMSE) questionnaires. The effective rate and time duration from coma to 
consciousness were recorded. Changes in blood ammonia level, markers of liver 
function, and neuropeptide levels were measured by standard biochemical assays. 
Intergroup differences were assessed by the Chi-squared test.
RESULTS: The HDS and MMSE scores of the research group were significantly higher 
than those of the control group after therapy. The effective rate, time duration 
from coma to consciousness, blood ammonia, the liver function markers alanine 
aminotransferase, gamma-glutamyl-transpeptidase and total bilirubin, and the 
neuropeptides arginine vasopressin and beta-endorphin were remarkably improved 
after treatment in the research group, as compared with that in the control 
group.
CONCLUSION: Supplementing the traditional treatment for hepatic encephalopathy 
with ornithine aspartate plus naloxone combination therapy provides better 
therapeutic outcome than traditional treatment alone.

DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.issn.1007-3418.2013.05.017
PMID: 24025143 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1149. Res Dev Disabil. 2013 Nov;34(11):3798-806. doi: 10.1016/j.ridd.2013.07.038. Epub 
2013 Sep 8.

Enumeration skills in Down syndrome.

Sella F(1), Lanfranchi S, Zorzi M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Developmental Psychology and Socialization, University of 
Padova, Via Venezia 8, 35131 Padova, Italy. Electronic address: 
francescosella@yahoo.it.

Individuals with Down syndrome (DS) exhibit various math difficulties which can 
be ascribed both to global intelligence level and/or to their atypical cognitive 
profile. In this light, it is crucial to investigate whether DS display deficits 
in basic numerical skills. In the present study, individuals with DS and two 
groups of typically developing (TD) children matched for mental and 
chronological age completed two delayed match-to-sample tasks in order to 
evaluate the functioning of visual enumeration skills. Children with DS showed a 
specific deficit in the discrimination of small numerosities (within the 
subitizing range) with respect to both mental and chronological age matched TD 
children. In contrast, the discrimination of larger numerosities, though lower 
than that of chronological age matched controls, was comparable to that of 
mental age matched controls. Finally, counting was less fluent but the 
understanding of cardinality seemed to be preserved in DS. These results suggest 
a deficit of the object tracking system underlying the parallel individuation of 
small numerosities and a typical - but developmentally delayed - acuity of the 
approximate number system for discrimination of larger numerosities.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ridd.2013.07.038
PMID: 24025435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1150. Res Dev Disabil. 2013 Nov;34(11):3906-15. doi: 10.1016/j.ridd.2013.07.031. Epub 
2013 Sep 8.

Requirements for and impact of a serious game for neuro-pediatric robot-assisted 
gait training.

Labruyère R(1), Gerber CN, Birrer-Brütsch K, Meyer-Heim A, van Hedel HJ.

Author information:
(1)From the Rehabilitation Center Affoltern am Albis, University Children's 
Hospital Zurich, Mühlebergstrasse 104, CH-8910 Affoltern am Albis, Switzerland; 
The Children's Research Center, University Children's Hospital Zurich, 
Switzerland. Electronic address: rob.labruyere@kispi.uzh.ch.

We investigated whether children with neurological gait disorders who walked in 
a driven gait orthosis could adjust their participation level according to the 
demands of a newly developed rehabilitation game. We further investigated if 
cognitive capacity and motor impairment influenced game performance. Nineteen 
children with neurological gait disorders (mean age: 13.4 y, 42% girls) 
participated. To quantify game participation, electromyographic muscle activity 
(M. rectus femoris) and heart rate were compared in a demanding part and a less 
demanding part of the game. Cognitive capacity was assessed with the Test of 
Nonverbal Intelligence (TONI-4). Furthermore, the Functional Independence 
Measure for Children (WeeFIM), Manual Muscle Tests and a therapist-derived score 
of how well the child was able to train were assessed. Results showed that 
muscle activity and heart rate were higher during the demanding part of the game 
(30.7 ± 22.6 μV; 129.4 ± 15.7 bpm) compared to the less demanding part (16.0 ± 
13.4 μV; 124.1 ± 15.9 bpm; p<0.01 for both measures). Game performance 
correlated moderately with the TONI-4 (r=0.50, p=0.04) and the cognition 
subscale of the WeeFIM (ρ=0.59, p=0.01). The therapist-derived score correlated 
significantly with game performance (p=0.75, p<0.01) and the ability to modify 
muscle activity to the demands of the game (p=-0.72, p<0.01). Receiver operating 
characteristic analyses revealed that the latter factor differentiated well 
between those children suitable for the game and those not. We conclude that 
children with neurological gait disorders are able to modify their activity to 
the demands of the VR-scenario. However, cognitive function and motor impairment 
determine to which extent. These results are important for clinical 
decision-making.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ridd.2013.07.031
PMID: 24025439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1151. Am J Clin Nutr. 2013 Nov;98(5):1241-54. doi: 10.3945/ajcn.113.065854. Epub 2013 
Sep 11.

Effect of iodine supplementation in pregnancy on child development and other 
clinical outcomes: a systematic review of randomized controlled trials.

Zhou SJ(1), Anderson AJ, Gibson RA, Makrides M.

Author information:
(1)Women's & Children's Health Research Institute, North Adelaide, Australia 
(AJA, MM, and SJZ); the School of Paediatrics and Reproductive Health, 
University of Adelaide, Adelaide, Australia (MM); and the FOODplus Research 
Centre, School of Agriculture, Food and Wine, University of Adelaide, Urrbrae, 
Australia (AJA, RAG, MM, and SJZ).

BACKGROUND: Routine iodine supplementation during pregnancy is recommended by 
leading health authorities worldwide, even in countries where the iodine status 
of the population is sufficient.
OBJECTIVES: We evaluated the efficacy and safety of iodine supplementation 
during pregnancy or the periconceptional period on the development and growth of 
children. Secondary outcomes included pregnancy outcome and thyroid function.
DESIGN: A systematic review of randomized controlled trials (RCTs) was 
conducted. PUBMED, MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL, PsycINFO, and Cochrane Central 
Register of Controlled Trials databases were searched to identify relevant RCTs.
RESULTS: Fourteen publications that involved 8 trials met the inclusion 
criteria. Only 2 included trials reported the growth and development of children 
and clinical outcomes. Iodine supplementation during pregnancy or the 
periconceptional period in regions of severe iodine deficiency reduced risk of 
cretinism, but there were no improvements in childhood intelligence, gross 
development, growth, or pregnancy outcomes, although there was an improvement in 
some motor functions. None of the remaining 6 RCTs conducted in regions of mild 
to moderate iodine deficiency reported childhood development or growth or 
pregnancy outcomes. Effects of iodine supplementation on the thyroid function of 
mothers and their children were inconsistent.
CONCLUSIONS: In this review, we highlight a lack of quality evidence of the 
effect of prenatal or periconceptional iodine supplementation on growth and 
cognitive function of children. Although contemporary RCTs of iodine 
supplementation with outcomes addressing childhood development are indicated, 
conduct of such RCTs may not be feasible in populations where iodine 
supplementation in pregnancy is widely practiced.

DOI: 10.3945/ajcn.113.065854
PMID: 24025628 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1152. Acad Psychiatry. 2013 Sep;37(5):339-41. doi: 10.1176/appi.ap.11090170.

Emotional intelligence and psychiatry residents: does the PRITE measure 
emotional intelligence?

Schrimpf L, Trief P.

OBJECTIVE: The authors assessed the relationship between Emotional Intelligence 
(EI) and Psychiatry Resident In-Training Exam (PRITE) scores. EI is important to 
the therapeutic alliance. The hypothesis tested was that PRITE scores would 
correlate with EI.
METHOD: Adult Psychiatry residents participated. The PRITE was administered, and 
participants completed the online Bar-On Emotional Intelligence Quotient 
questionnaire.
RESULTS: Pearson correlation coefficients were calculated for PRITE score and 
overall EI score, and with the 15 EI subscales. The correlation for PRITE and 
overall EI was not significant. Three EI subscales had statistically significant 
correlations with PRITE score: empathy, social responsibility, and impulse 
control.
CONCLUSIONS: There was no significant correlation between overall EI and PRITE 
scores. There was an inverse relationship between PRITE scores and empathy, 
social responsibility, and impulse control. The authors discuss possible 
explanations for these relationships.

DOI: 10.1176/appi.ap.11090170
PMID: 24026376 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1153. Anim Behav. 2013 Sep;86(3):595-602. doi: 10.1016/j.anbehav.2013.06.015.

Responses of chimpanzees to cues of conspecific observation.

Nettle D(1), Cronin KA, Bateson M.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Behaviour and Evolution & Institute of Neuroscience, Newcastle 
University, Newcastle, U.K.

Recent evidence has shown that humans are remarkably sensitive to artificial 
cues of conspecific observation when making decisions with potential social 
consequences. Whether similar effects are found in other great apes has not yet 
been investigated. We carried out two experiments in which individual 
chimpanzees, Pan troglodytes, took items of food from an array in the presence 
of either an image of a large conspecific face or a scrambled control image. In 
experiment 1 we compared three versions of the face image varying in size and 
the amount of the face displayed. In experiment 2 we compared a fourth variant 
of the image with more prominent coloured eyes displayed closer to the focal 
chimpanzee. The chimpanzees did not look at the face images significantly more 
than at the control images in either experiment. Although there were trends for 
some individuals in each experiment to be slower to take high-value food items 
in the face conditions, these were not consistent or robust. We suggest that the 
extreme human sensitivity to cues of potential conspecific observation may not 
be shared with chimpanzees.

DOI: 10.1016/j.anbehav.2013.06.015
PMCID: PMC3763378
PMID: 24027343


1154. Child Neuropsychol. 2014;20(5):557-82. doi: 10.1080/09297049.2013.832740. Epub 
2013 Sep 13.

Neuropsychological and neurobehavioral outcome following childhood arterial 
ischemic stroke: attention deficits, emotional dysregulation, and executive 
dysfunction.

O'Keeffe F(1), Liégeois F, Eve M, Ganesan V, King J, Murphy T.

Author information:
(1)a Research Department of Clinical, Educational and Health Psychology , 
University College , London , London , UK.

OBJECTIVES: To investigate neuropsychological and neurobehavioral outcome in 
children with arterial ischemic stroke (AIS).
BACKGROUND: Childhood stroke can have consequences on motor, cognitive, and 
behavioral development. We present a cross-sectional study of neuropsychological 
and neurobehavioral outcome at least one year poststroke in a uniquely 
homogeneous sample of children who had experienced AIS.
METHOD: Forty-nine children with AIS aged 6 to 18 years were recruited from a 
specialist clinic. Neuropsychological measures of intelligence, reading 
comprehension, attention, and executive function were administered. A 
triangulation of data collection included questionnaires completed by the 
children, their parents, and teachers, rating behavior, executive functions, and 
emotions.
KEY FINDINGS: Focal neuropsychological vulnerabilities in attention (response 
inhibition and dual attention) and executive function were found, beyond general 
intellectual functioning, irrespective of hemispheric side of stroke. 
Difficulties with emotional and behavioral regulation were also found. 
Consistent with an "early plasticity" hypothesis, earlier age of stroke was 
associated with better performance on measures of executive function.
CONCLUSIONS: A significant proportion of children poststroke are at long-term 
risk of difficulties with emotional regulation, executive function, and 
attention. Data also suggest that executive functions are represented in 
widespread networks in the developing brain and are vulnerable to unilateral 
injury.

DOI: 10.1080/09297049.2013.832740
PMCID: PMC4104789
PMID: 24028185 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1155. Clin Neuropsychol. 2013;27(8):1234-46. doi: 10.1080/13854046.2013.835447. Epub 
2013 Sep 12.

Assessing effort: differentiating performance and symptom validity.

Van Dyke SA(1), Millis SR, Axelrod BN, Hanks RA.

Author information:
(1)a Neuropsychology Department , Rehabilitation Institute of Michigan , Detroit 
, MI , USA .

The current study aimed to clarify the relationship among the constructs 
involved in neuropsychological assessment, including cognitive performance, 
symptom self-report, performance validity, and symptom validity. Participants 
consisted of 120 consecutively evaluated individuals from a veteran's hospital 
with mixed referral sources. Measures included the Wechsler Adult Intelligence 
Scale-Fourth Edition Full Scale IQ (WAIS-IV FSIQ), California Verbal Learning 
Test-Second Edition (CVLT-II), Trail Making Test Part B (TMT-B), Test of Memory 
Malingering (TOMM), Medical Symptom Validity Test (MSVT), WAIS-IV Reliable Digit 
Span (RDS), Post-traumatic Check List-Military Version (PCL-M), MMPI-2 F scale, 
MMPI-2 Symptom Validity Scale (FBS), MMPI-2 Response Bias Scale (RBS), and the 
Postconcussive Symptom Questionnaire (PCSQ). Six different models were tested 
using confirmatory factor analysis (CFA) to determine the factor model 
describing the relationships between cognitive performance, symptom self-report, 
performance validity, and symptom validity. The strongest and most parsimonious 
model was a three-factor model in which cognitive performance, performance 
validity, and self-reported symptoms (including both standard and symptom 
validity measures) were separate factors. The findings suggest failure in one 
validity domain does not necessarily invalidate the other domain. Thus, 
performance validity and symptom validity should be evaluated separately.

DOI: 10.1080/13854046.2013.835447
PMID: 24028487 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1156. Milbank Q. 2013 Sep;91(3):424-54. doi: 10.1111/1468-0009.12021.

Improving quality and safety of care using "technovigilance": an ethnographic 
case study of secondary use of data from an electronic prescribing and decision 
support system.

Dixon-Woods M(1), Redwood S, Leslie M, Minion J, Martin GP, Coleman JJ.

Author information:
(1)University of Leicester.

Comment in
    Milbank Q. 2013 Sep;91(3):455-8.

CONTEXT: "Meaningful use" of electronic health records to improve quality of 
care has remained understudied. We evaluated an approach to improving patients' 
safety and quality of care involving the secondary use of data from a hospital 
electronic prescribing and decision support system (ePDSS).
METHODS: We conducted a case study of a large English acute care hospital with a 
well-established ePDSS. Our study was based on ethnographic observations of 
clinical settings (162 hours) and meetings (28 hours), informal conversations 
with clinical staff, semistructured interviews with ten senior executives, and 
the collection of relevant documents. Our data analysis was based on the 
constant comparative method.
FINDINGS: This hospital's approach to quality and safety could be characterized 
as "technovigilance." It involved treating the ePDSS as a warehouse of data on 
clinical activity and performance. The hospital converted the secondary data 
into intelligence about the performance of individuals, teams, and clinical 
services and used this as the basis of action for improvement. Through a 
combination of rapid audit, feedback to clinical teams, detailed and critical 
review of apparent omissions in executive-led meetings, a focus on personal 
professional responsibility for patients' safety and quality care, and the 
correction of organizational or systems defects, technovigilance was-based on 
the hospital's own evidence-highly effective in improving specific indicators. 
Measures such as the rate of omitted doses of medication showed marked 
improvement. As do most interventions, however, technovigilance also had 
unintended consequences. These included the risk of focusing attention on 
aspects of patient safety made visible by the system at the expense of other, 
less measurable but nonetheless important, concerns.
CONCLUSIONS: The secondary use of electronic data can be effective for improving 
specific indicators of care if accompanied by a range of interventions to ensure 
proper interpretation and appropriate action. But care is needed to avoid 
unintended consequences.

© 2013 Milbank Memorial Fund.

DOI: 10.1111/1468-0009.12021
PMCID: PMC3790520
PMID: 24028694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1157. Curr Biol. 2013 Sep 9;23(17):R741-5. doi: 10.1016/j.cub.2013.08.011.

The biochemistry of memory.

Stock JB(1), Zhang S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08540, 
USA. Electronic address: jstock@princeton.edu.

Almost fifty years ago, Julius Adler initiated a program of research to gain 
insights into the basic biochemistry of intelligent behavior by studying the 
molecular mechanisms that underlie the chemotactic responses of Escherichia 
coli. All living organisms share elements of a common biochemistry for 
metabolism, growth and heredity - why not intelligence? Neurobiologists have 
demonstrated that this is the case for nervous systems in animals ranging from 
worms to man. Motile unicellular organisms such as E. coli exhibit rudimentary 
behaviors that can be loosely described in terms of cognitive phenomena such as 
memory and learning. Adler's initiative at least raised the prospect that, 
because of the numerous experimental advantages provided by E. coli, it would be 
the first organism whose behavior could be understood at molecular resolution.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cub.2013.08.011
PMCID: PMC3971467
PMID: 24028956 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1158. Am J Epidemiol. 2013 Nov 1;178(9):1461-8. doi: 10.1093/aje/kwt135. Epub 2013 Sep 
12.

Is obesity associated with a decline in intelligence quotient during the first 
half of the life course?

Belsky DW, Caspi A, Goldman-Mellor S, Meier MH, Ramrakha S, Poulton R, Moffitt 
TE.

Cross-sectional studies have found that obesity is associated with low 
intellectual ability and neuroimaging abnormalities in adolescence and 
adulthood. Some have interpreted these associations to suggest that obesity 
causes intellectual decline in the first half of the life course. We analyzed 
data from a prospective longitudinal study to test whether becoming obese was 
associated with intellectual decline from childhood to midlife. We used data 
from the ongoing Dunedin Multidisciplinary Health and Development Study, a 
population-representative birth cohort study of 1,037 children in New Zealand 
who were followed prospectively from birth (1972-1973) through their fourth 
decade of life with a 95% retention rate. Intelligence quotient (IQ) was 
measured in childhood and adulthood. Anthropometric measurements were taken at 
birth and at 12 subsequent in-person assessments. As expected, cohort members 
who became obese had lower adulthood IQ scores. However, obese cohort members 
exhibited no excess decline in IQ. Instead, these cohort members had lower IQ 
scores since childhood. This pattern remained consistent when we accounted for 
children's birth weights and growth during the first years of life, as well as 
for childhood-onset obesity. Lower IQ scores among children who later developed 
obesity were present as early as 3 years of age. We observed no evidence that 
obesity contributed to a decline in IQ, even among obese individuals who 
displayed evidence of the metabolic syndrome and/or elevated systemic 
inflammation.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/kwt135
PMCID: PMC3813310
PMID: 24029684 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1159. Database (Oxford). 2013 Sep 11;2013:bat063. doi: 10.1093/database/bat063. Print 
2013.

IQdb: an intelligence quotient score-associated gene resource for human 
intelligence.

Kong L(1), Cheng L, Fan LY, Zhao M, Qu H.

Author information:
(1)Center for Bioinformatics, State Key Laboratory of Protein and Plant Gene 
Research, College of Life Sciences, Peking University, Beijing 100871, PR China.

Intelligence quotient (IQ) is the most widely used phenotype to characterize 
human cognitive abilities. Recent advances in studies on human intelligence have 
identified many new susceptibility genes. However, the genetic mechanisms 
involved in IQ score and the relationship between IQ score and the risk of 
mental disorders have won little attention. To address the genetic complexity of 
IQ score, we have developed IQdb (http://IQdb.cbi.pku.edu.cn), a publicly 
available database for exploring IQ-associated human genes. In total, we 
collected 158 experimental verified genes from literature as a core dataset in 
IQdb. In addition, 46 genomic regions related to IQ score have been curated from 
literature. Based on the core dataset and 46 confirmed linked genomic regions, 
more than 6932 potential IQ-related genes are expanded using data of 
protein-protein interactions. A systematic gene ranking approach was applied to 
all the collected and expanded genes to represent the relative importance of all 
the 7090 genes in IQdb. Our further systematic pathway analysis reveals that 
IQ-associated genes are significantly enriched in multiple signal events, 
especially related to cognitive systems. Of the 158 genes in the core dataset, 
81 are involved in various psychotic and mental disorders. This comprehensive 
gene resource illustrates the importance of IQdb to our understanding on human 
intelligence, and highlights the utility of IQdb for elucidating the functions 
of IQ-associated genes and the cross-talk mechanisms among cognition-related 
pathways in some mental disorders for community. Database URL: 
http://IQdb.cbi.pku.edu.cn.

DOI: 10.1093/database/bat063
PMCID: PMC3770929
PMID: 24030781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1160. Zhongguo Zhen Jiu. 2013 Jul;33(7):595-9.

[Impacts on tiptoe deformity and intelligent development in spasmodic cerebral 
palsy treated with acupuncture at naoqing xue (extra)].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhang Y(1), Lan R, Liu ZH.

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Guangzhou University of TCM, Guangzhou 510006, Guangdong 
Province, China. zhangyong005270@126.com

OBJECTIVE: To assess the impacts on tiptoe deformity and intelligent development 
in spasmodic cerebral palsy treated with acupuncture at Naoqing Xue (Extra).
METHODS: One hundred and forty-six children with spasmodic cerebral palsy were 
randomized into a Naoqing Xue group (74 cases) and a control group (72 cases). 
On the basic treatment (scalp acupuncture, sport therapy), in the Naoqing Xue 
group, acupuncture at Naoqing Xue (Extra) was applied. In the control group, 
acupuncture was given at Jiexi (ST 41), Yanglingquan (GB 34) and Sanyinjiao (SP 
6). In the two groups, acupuncture was given once every two days, 10 treatments 
made one session, at the interval of 15 days between two sessions. Three 
sessions of treatment were given continuously. Before treatment and after 3 
sessions of treatment, the angle measurement of ankle passive dorsiflexion, 
comprehensive spasm scale (CSS) and Gesell intelligence test were adopted for 
the rehabilitation assessment. Additionally, 30 min after the end of the first 
acupuncture treatment, the angle measurement of ankle passive dorsiflexion and 
CSS were applied to assess the immediate effect of the therapeutic methods of 
the two groups.
RESULTS: The immediate effect of the angle measurement of ankle passive 
dorsiflexion and CSS as well as the effect after 3 sessions of treatment in the 
Naoqing Xue group were all superior to those in the control group (all P < 
0.05). In 3 sessions of treatment, the development quotients of social adaptive 
behavior and personal social activation function in Gesell intelligence test in 
the Naoqing Xue group were all higher than those in the control group (all P < 
0.05). The development quotients of major movement, fine motion and language 
were not different significantly as compared with those in the control group (P 
> 0.05).
CONCLUSION: Acupuncture at Naoqing Xue (Extra) relieves tiptoe deformity and 
promotes intelligent development for the children with spasmodic cerebral palsy.

PMID: 24032188 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1161. J Neurosurg. 2013 Nov;119(5):1089-97. doi: 10.3171/2013.8.JNS121854. Epub 2013 
Sep 13.

Selective amygdalohippocampectomy versus anterior temporal lobectomy in the 
management of mesial temporal lobe epilepsy: a meta-analysis of comparative 
studies.

Hu WH(1), Zhang C, Zhang K, Meng FG, Chen N, Zhang JG.

Author information:
(1)Beijing Neurosurgical Institute and.

Comment in
    J Neurosurg. 2013 Nov;119(5):1087-8; discussion 1088.
    J Neurosurg. 2014 Mar;120(3):786-8.
    J Neurosurg. 2014 Mar;120(3):788.

OBJECT: Whether selective amygdalohippocampectomy (SelAH) has similar seizure 
outcomes and better neuropsychological outcomes compared with anterior temporal 
lobectomy (ATL) is a matter of debate. The aim of this study was to compare the 
2 types of surgery with respect to seizure outcomes and changes in IQ scores.
METHODS: PubMed, Embase, and the Cochrane Library were searched for relevant 
studies published between January 1990 and September 2012. Studies comparing 
SelAH and ATL with respect to seizure and intelligence outcomes were included. 
Two reviewers assessed the quality of the included studies and independently 
extracted the data. Odds ratios and standardized mean deviations with 95% 
confidence intervals were used to compare pooled proportions of freedom from 
seizures and changes in IQ scores between the SelAH and ATL groups.
RESULTS: Three prospective and 10 retrospective studies were identified 
involving 745 and 766 patients who underwent SelAH and ATL, respectively. The 
meta-analysis demonstrated a statistically significant reduction in the odds of 
seizure freedom for patients who underwent SelAH compared with those who 
underwent ATL (OR 0.65 [95% CI 0.51-0.82], p = 0.0005). The differences between 
the changes in all IQ scores after the 2 types of surgery were not statistically 
significant, regardless of the side of resection.
CONCLUSIONS: Selective amygdalohippocampectomy statistically reduced the odds of 
being seizure free compared with ATL, but the clinical significance of this 
reduction needs to be further validated by well-designed randomized trials. 
Selective amygdalohippocampectomy did not have better outcomes than ATL with 
respect to intelligence.

DOI: 10.3171/2013.8.JNS121854
PMID: 24032705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1162. Paediatr Anaesth. 2013 Nov;23(11):1084-96. doi: 10.1111/pan.12255. Epub 2013 Sep 
3.

A systematic review and quantitative analysis of neurocognitive outcomes in 
children with four chronic illnesses.

Moser JJ(1), Veale PM, McAllister DL, Archer DP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Faculty of Medicine, 
University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Concern has been expressed that infants and children exposed to 
uneventful surgery and anesthesia may incur neurological injury that becomes 
manifest in poor scholastic performance or future learning difficulties. A 
recent meta-analysis of seven clinical studies examined the relationship between 
learning or behavior difficulties and pediatric exposure to anesthesia/surgery 
and reported an odds ratio of 1.4; however, the level of association and causal 
factors remain unclear. The purpose of our study is to provide context to the 
pediatric anesthesia neurotoxicity question by reviewing the evidence linking 
four childhood illnesses with neurocognitive development. In the present review, 
we have sought to quantify the magnitude of the impact of chronic illness on 
neurocognitive development through a systematic review of publications that 
report the developmental trajectory of patients with four childhood diseases: 
cystic fibrosis (CF), hemophilia A, end-stage renal disease (ESRD) and end-stage 
liver disease (ESLD).
METHODS: Studies were identified by searching the electronic databases OVID 
MEDLINE and Pubmed and scanning reference lists of articles by two authors. 
Limits were applied to the English language and to humans. We used the following 
search terms: CF, hemophilia A, ESRD, ESLD in combination with academic 
performance, educational status, educational measurement, learning, achievement, 
developmental delay, learning disabilities, intellectual disabilities, 
behavioral disorders, intelligence quotient (IQ), cognition, school problems, 
absenteeism, school attendance, anxiety, learning regression, or developmental 
regression. The search strategy was reviewed independently by all four authors. 
Eligibility assessment was performed independently in an unblinded standardized 
manner by two authors who chose relevant articles from the overall search 
results by scanning the titles and abstracts of articles and from the references 
within citations. The full-text publications were reviewed by all four authors. 
All pertinent data related to the objectives were collected and independently 
reviewed by two authors. The data were summarized in the form reported in the 
studies. When possible, reported data were submitted to analysis with the 
Mantel-Haenszel method using a random effects model. Analyses were performed 
using the Review Manager computer program.
RESULTS: In the studies retrieved, the main outcomes were measures of 
intellectual or cognitive characteristics, as exemplified by the Wechsler 
battery of tests. Reporting of measures of achievement (for example, GPA) was 
rare. Children with CF and hemophilia A did not appear disadvantaged by their 
disease as general intelligence levels were comparable with the general 
population norms. In children with ESRD, mean IQ reported during dialysis 
improved after transplantation. Although they improved relative to their 
pretransplantation cognitive functioning, children with ESLD who received 
transplants are approximately eight IQ points below the population norm.
CONCLUSIONS: Overall, the results suggest that the burden of chronic childhood 
illness, by itself, does not impair cognitive development in children with 
hemophilia A and CF. Children with ESRD and ESLD, despite optimal management, 
show a mild cognitive deficit compared with the population norm. Given the 
impact of these four specific chronic illnesses on neurocognitive outcome in 
children and the improvement in IQ post-transplant in both ESRD and ESLD, the 
results suggest that the effect of an uncontrolled confounding illness on 
neurocognitive development is small.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/pan.12255
PMID: 24033636 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1163. Bipolar Disord. 2013 Nov;15(7):795-802. doi: 10.1111/bdi.12114. Epub 2013 Sep 6.

Deformations of amygdala morphology in familial pediatric bipolar disorder.

Kelley R(1), Chang KD, Garrett A, Alegría D, Thompson P, Howe M, L Reiss A.

Author information:
(1)Center for Interdisciplinary Brain Sciences Research (CIBSR), Stanford 
University School of Medicine, Palo Alto, USA; Department of Psychiatry and 
Behavioral Sciences, Stanford University School of Medicine, Palo Alto, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Smaller amygdalar volumes have been consistently observed in 
pediatric bipolar disorder subjects compared to healthy control subjects. 
Whether smaller amygdalar volume is a consequence or antecedent of the first 
episode of mania is not known. Additionally, smaller volume has not been 
localized to specific amygdala subregions.
METHODS: We compared surface contour maps of the amygdala between 22 youths at 
high risk for bipolar disorder, 26 youths meeting full diagnostic criteria for 
pediatric familial bipolar disorder, and 24 healthy control subjects matched for 
age, gender, and intelligence quotient. Amygdalae were manually delineated on 
three-dimensional spoiled gradient echo images by a blinded rater using 
established tracing protocols. Statistical surface mesh modeling algorithms 
supported by permutation statistics were used to identify regional surface 
differences between the groups.
RESULTS: When compared to high-risk subjects and controls, youth with bipolar 
disorder showed surface deformations in specific amygdalar subregions, 
suggesting smaller volume of the basolateral nuclei. The high-risk subjects did 
not differ from controls in any subregion.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings support previous reports of smaller amygdala volume 
in pediatric bipolar disorder and map the location of abnormality to specific 
amygdala subregions. These subregions have been associated with fear 
conditioning and emotion-enhanced memory. The absence of amygdala size 
abnormalities in youth at high risk for bipolar disorder suggests that 
reductions might occur after the onset of mania.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/bdi.12114
PMID: 24034354 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1164. Bipolar Disord. 2013 Dec;15(8):885-92. doi: 10.1111/bdi.12122. Epub 2013 Sep 6.

Prospective memory impairment and its implications for community living skills 
in bipolar disorder.

Au RW(1), Ungvari GS, Lee E, Man D, Shum DH, Xiang YT, Tang WK.

Author information:
(1)Occupational Therapy Department, United Christian Hospital, Hong Kong SAR, 
China; Department of Psychiatry, Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong SAR, 
China.

OBJECTIVE: Prospective memory (PM) refers to the ability to undertake intended 
actions in the future. The functional significance of PM in bipolar disorder 
(BD) has not yet been investigated. This study examined PM impairment and its 
role in community living skills in clinically stable individuals with BD.
METHODS: Seventy-six individuals with BD and 44 healthy individuals were 
assessed with the Chinese version of the Cambridge Prospective Memory Test. 
Socio-demographic characteristics, retrospective memory (RM; the ability to 
recall or recognize past information), and intelligence were also measured in 
all participants. The clinical condition and community living skills of patients 
with BD were rated independently with standardized instruments.
RESULTS: Patients with BD showed PM impairment and their PM total scores 
independently predicted the level of community living skills in regression 
analyses. In follow-up analyses, the contribution was found to be accounted for 
by the time-based PM scores.
CONCLUSIONS: Given the expanding body of research on the utility of PM in 
predicting functioning, these findings further support the role of PM in 
community living skills in individuals with BD. The results suggest that PM 
training might be an integral part of clinical rehabilitation devised for 
individuals with BD.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/bdi.12122
PMID: 24034473 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1165. Zhongguo Dang Dai Er Ke Za Zhi. 2013 Sep;15(9):733-6.

[Clinical features and comorbidities of Asperger syndrome in children].

[Article in Chinese]

Fu XY(1), Xie XT, Mei Z, Cheng WH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Tongji Hospital of Tongji University, Shanghai 
200065, China. xtxie@163.com.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate and summarize the clinical features and comorbidities 
of Asperger syndrome (AS) in children and to provide a theoretical basis for 
improving the understanding and diagnosis of AS.
METHODS: Inquiry of medical history, physical examination, behavioral 
observation, psychiatric examination, questionnaire survey, and the Wechsler 
Intelligence Scale were used to summarize and analyse the clinical data of 95 
children with AS, including chief complaint, symptoms, perinatal and familial 
conditions, family genetic history, and common comorbidities.
RESULTS: AS was more common in male children, with hyperactivity, inattention, 
and social withdrawal as frequent chief complaints. The main clinical 
manifestations included poor communication skills (95%), restricted interest 
(82%), repetitive and stereotyped patterns of behavior (77%), semantic 
comprehension deficit (74%), and indiscipline (68%). Verbal IQ was higher than 
performance IQ in most patients. The comorbidities of AS included attention 
deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) (39%), emotional disorder (18%), and 
schizophrenia (2%); emotional disorder was more common in patients aged 13-16 
years, while ADHD was more common in patients aged 7-16 years. Among these 
patients, 61% had fathers with introverted personality, 43% had mothers with 
introverted personality, and 19% had a family history of mental illness.
CONCLUSIONS: AS has specific clinical manifestations. It is essential to know 
more about the clinical features and comorbidities of AS, which is helpful for 
early identification and diagnosis of AS.

PMID: 24034914 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1166. Brain Dev. 2014 Aug;36(7):620-5. doi: 10.1016/j.braindev.2013.08.006. Epub 2013 
Sep 12.

No association between catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) genotype and 
attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in Japanese children.

Yatsuga C(1), Toyohisa D(2), Fujisawa TX(1), Nishitani S(3), Shinohara K(3), 
Matsuura N(4), Ikeda S(5), Muramatsu M(5), Hamada A(6), Tomoda A(7).

Author information:
(1)Research Center for Child Mental Development, University of Fukui, Fukui, 
Japan.
(2)Department of Child Development, Faculty of Life Sciences, Kumamoto 
University, Kumamoto, Japan.
(3)Department of Neurobiology and Behavior, Graduate School of Biomedical 
Sciences, Nagasaki University, Nagasaki, Japan.
(4)School of Education, Tokyo University and Graduate School of Social Welfare, 
Tokyo, Japan.
(5)Tokyo Medical and Dental University, Medical Research Institute, Medical 
Genomics, Molecular Epidemiology, Tokyo, Japan.
(6)Division of Integrative Omics and Bioinformatics, National Cancer Center 
Research Institute, Tokyo, Japan.
(7)Research Center for Child Mental Development, University of Fukui, Fukui, 
Japan. Electronic address: atomoda@u-fukui.ac.jp.

OBJECTIVE: This study ascertained the association between attention 
deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in Japanese children and a polymorphism of 
catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT), a dopamine-control gene. The secondary aim 
of the study was the evaluation of a putative association between 
methylphenidate (MPH) effect/adverse effects and the COMT genotype.
METHODS: To ascertain the distribution of the Val158Met variant of COMT, 50 
children meeting ADHD inclusion criteria were compared with 32 healthy children. 
Clinical improvement and the occurrence of adverse effects were measured before 
and 3 months after MPH administration in children with ADHD, and analyzed for 
genotype association. Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children-Third Edition 
(WISC-III), age, MPH dose were included as co-variables.
RESULTS: The occurrence of the COMT Val/Val genotype was significantly higher in 
children with ADHD (χ(2)(1)=7.13, p<0.01). However, there was no significant 
difference in the Val/Val genotype according to disorder, and WISC and ADHD 
rating scale scores, after correcting for the interaction between disorder and 
COMT genotype. Furthermore, no significant difference in MPH effect/adverse 
effects was observed in association with the COMT genotype in the ADHD group.
CONCLUSIONS: These results showed a lack of association between the COMT Val/Val 
genotype and ADHD in Japan.

Copyright © 2013 The Japanese Society of Child Neurology. Published by Elsevier 
B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.braindev.2013.08.006
PMID: 24035255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1167. Clin Chim Acta. 2013 Nov 15;426:127-38. doi: 10.1016/j.cca.2013.08.020. Epub 
2013 Sep 11.

The role of metabolomics in neonatal and pediatric laboratory medicine.

Mussap M(1), Antonucci R, Noto A, Fanos V.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory Medicine Service, IRCCS AOU San Martino-IST, University-Hospital, 
National Institute for Cancer Research, Genova, Italy.

Metabolomics consists of the quantitative analysis of a large number of low 
molecular mass metabolites involving substrates or products in metabolic 
pathways existing in all living systems. The analysis of the metabolic profile 
detectable in a human biological fluid allows to instantly identify changes in 
the composition of endogenous and exogenous metabolites caused by the 
interaction between specific physiopathological states, gene expression, and 
environment. In pediatrics and neonatology, metabolomics offers new encouraging 
perspectives for the improvement of critically ill patient outcome, for the 
early recognition of metabolic profiles associated with the development of 
diseases in the adult life, and for delivery of individualized medicine. In this 
view, nutrimetabolomics, based on the recognition of specific cluster of 
metabolites associated with nutrition and pharmacometabolomics, based on the 
capacity to personalize drug therapy by analyzing metabolic modifications due to 
therapeutic treatment may open new frontiers in the prevention and in the 
treatment of pediatric and neonatal diseases. This review summarizes the most 
relevant results published in the literature on the application of metabolomics 
in pediatric and neonatal clinical settings. However, there is the urgent need 
to standardize physiological and preanalytical variables, analytical methods, 
data processing, and result presentation, before establishing the definitive 
clinical value of results.

© 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cca.2013.08.020
PMID: 24035970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1168. Res Dev Disabil. 2013 Nov;34(11):3916-23. doi: 10.1016/j.ridd.2013.08.027. Epub 
2013 Sep 10.

Emotional intelligence, emotions, and feelings of support staff working with 
clients with intellectual disabilities and challenging behavior: an exploratory 
study.

Zijlmans LJ(1), Embregts PJ, Bosman AM.

Author information:
(1)Tilburg University, Tranzo, Tilburg, The Netherlands; Consortium Coping LVB, 
The Netherlands. Electronic address: l.j.m.zijlmans@uvt.nl.

Working with clients who show challenging behavior can be emotionally demanding 
and stressful for support staff, because this behavior may cause a range of 
negative emotional reactions and feelings. These reactions are of negative 
influence on staff wellbeing and behavior. Research has focused on negative 
emotions of staff. However, a distinction between emotions and feelings has 
never been made in the research field of intellectual disabilities. Negative 
emotions and feelings may be regulated by emotional intelligence, a 
psychological construct that takes into account personal style and individual 
differences. The purpose of this study was to explore the relationship between 
emotional intelligence on the one hand and emotions and feelings on the other. 
Participants were 207 support staff serving clients with moderate to borderline 
intellectual disabilities and challenging behavior. Emotional intelligence, 
emotions, and feelings were measured with questionnaires. The results show that 
emotional intelligence, emotions, and feelings are related. However, found 
relationships were weak. Most significant relations were found between feelings 
and stress management and adaptation elements of emotional intelligence. Because 
the explored variables can change over time they call for a longitudinal 
research approach.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ridd.2013.08.027
PMID: 24036120 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1169. Behav Brain Res. 2013 Nov 1;256:626-35. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2013.09.012. Epub 
2013 Sep 12.

Voluntary aerobic exercise increases the cognitive enhancing effects of working 
memory training.

Smith AM(1), Spiegler KM, Sauce B, Wass CD, Sturzoiu T, Matzel LD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Behavioral and Systems Neuroscience, Rutgers 
University, Piscataway, NJ 08854, United States.

Increases in performance on tests of attention and learning are often observed 
shortly after a period of aerobic exercise, and evidence suggests that humans 
who engage in regular exercise are partially protected from age-related 
cognitive decline. However, the cognitive benefits of exercise are typically 
short-lived, limiting the practical application of these observations. Here, we 
explored whether physical exercise might induce lasting changes in general 
cognitive ability if that exercise was combined with working memory training, 
which is purported to broadly impact cognitive performance. Mice received either 
exercise treatment (6 weeks of voluntary running wheel access), working memory 
training (in a dual radial-arm maze), both treatments, or various control 
treatments. After this period of exercise, working memory training was initiated 
(alternating with days of exercise), and continued for several weeks. Upon 
completion of these treatments, animals were assessed (2-4 weeks later) for 
performance on four diverse learning tasks, and the aggregate performance of 
individual animals across all four learning tasks was estimated. Working memory 
training alone promoted small increases in general cognitive performance, 
although any beneficial effects of exercise alone had dissipated by the time of 
learning assessments. However, the two treatments in combination more than 
doubled the improvement in general cognitive performance supported by working 
memory training alone. Unlike the transient effects that acute aerobic exercise 
can have on isolated learning tasks, these results indicate that an acute period 
of exercise combined with working memory training can have synergistic and 
lasting impact on general cognitive performance.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2013.09.012
PMCID: PMC3856556
PMID: 24036169 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1170. Atten Percept Psychophys. 2013 Oct;75(7):1347-52. doi: 
10.3758/s13414-013-0533-y.

Influence of gender membership on sequential decisions of face attractiveness.

Kondo A(1), Takahashi K, Watanabe K.

Author information:
(1)Research Center for Advanced Science and Technology, The University of Tokyo, 
4-6-1, Komaba, Meguro-ku, Tokyo, 1538904, Japan.

Responses in a current trial are biased by the stimulus and response in the 
preceding trial. In a mixed-category sequence, the sequential dependency is 
weaker when the stimuli of the current and preceding trials fall under different 
categories. In the present study, we investigated the influence of the gender 
membership of faces on the sequential dependency. Forty-eight pictures of male 
and female faces were presented successively. Participants rated the 
attractiveness, roundness, or intelligence of each face on a 7-point scale. The 
sequential effect was robustly observed, irrespective of the property to be 
judged. However, between-gender sequential dependency was weaker than 
within-gender dependency only in the attractiveness judgment. These findings 
suggest that the gender of faces serves as a cue for forming category 
representations when face attractiveness is of interest, and hence that the 
formation of categories in sequential decisions is an adaptive process that 
depends on the property to be judged.

DOI: 10.3758/s13414-013-0533-y
PMID: 24037595 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1171. Hum Brain Mapp. 2014 Jun;35(6):2619-31. doi: 10.1002/hbm.22355. Epub 2013 Sep 3.

White matter microstructure correlates of mathematical giftedness and 
intelligence quotient.

Navas-Sánchez FJ(1), Alemán-Gómez Y, Sánchez-Gonzalez J, Guzmán-De-Villoria JA, 
Franco C, Robles O, Arango C, Desco M.

Author information:
(1)Unidad de Medicina y Cirugía Experimental, Hospital General Universitario 
Gregorio Marañón, Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria Gregorio Marañón, Madrid, 
Spain; Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Salud Mental (CIBERSAM), 
Madrid, Spain.

Recent functional neuroimaging studies have shown differences in brain 
activation between mathematically gifted adolescents and controls. The aim of 
this study was to investigate the relationship between mathematical giftedness, 
intelligent quotient (IQ), and the microstructure of white matter tracts in a 
sample composed of math-gifted adolescents and aged-matched controls. 
Math-gifted subjects were selected through a national program based on detecting 
enhanced visuospatial abilities and creative thinking. We used diffusion tensor 
imaging to assess white matter microstructure in neuroanatomical connectivity. 
The processing included voxel-wise and region of interest-based analyses of the 
fractional anisotropy (FA), a parameter which is purportedly related to white 
matter microstructure. In a whole-sample analysis, IQ showed a significant 
positive correlation with FA, mainly in the corpus callosum, supporting the idea 
that efficient information transfer between hemispheres is crucial for higher 
intellectual capabilities. In addition, math-gifted adolescents showed increased 
FA (adjusted for IQ) in white matter tracts connecting frontal lobes with basal 
ganglia and parietal regions. The enhanced anatomical connectivity observed in 
the forceps minor and splenium may underlie the greater fluid reasoning, 
visuospatial working memory, and creative capabilities of these children.

© 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/hbm.22355
PMCID: PMC6868969
PMID: 24038774 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1172. Hum Brain Mapp. 2014 Jun;35(6):2632-42. doi: 10.1002/hbm.22356. Epub 2013 Sep 
13.

Genes contributing to subcortical volumes and intellectual ability implicate the 
thalamus.

Bohlken MM(1), Brouwer RM, Mandl RC, van Haren NE, Brans RG, van Baal GC, de 
Geus EJ, Boomsma DI, Kahn RS, Hulshoff Pol HE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, UMC Utrecht, The Netherlands.

It has been shown that brain volume and general intellectual ability are to a 
significant extent influenced by the same genetic factors. Several cortical 
regions of the brain also show a genetic correlation with intellectual ability, 
demonstrating that intellectual functioning is probably represented in a 
heritable distributed network of cortical regions throughout the brain. This 
study is the first to investigate a genetic association between subcortical 
volumes and intellectual ability, taking into account the thalamus, caudate 
nucleus, putamen, globus pallidus, hippocampus, amygdala, and nucleus accumbens 
using an extended twin design. Genetic modeling was performed on a healthy adult 
twin sample consisting of 106 twin pairs and 30 of their siblings, IQ data was 
obtained from 132 subjects. Our results demonstrate that of all subcortical 
volumes measured, only thalamus volume is significantly correlated with 
intellectual functioning. Importantly, the association found between thalamus 
volume and intellectual ability is significantly influenced by a common genetic 
factor. This genetic factor is also implicated in cerebral brain volume. The 
thalamus, with its widespread cortical connections, may thus play a key role in 
human intelligence.

Copyright © 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/hbm.22356
PMCID: PMC6869799
PMID: 24038793 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1173. Pediatr Blood Cancer. 2014 Mar;61(3):464-72. doi: 10.1002/pbc.24746. Epub 2013 
Aug 29.

Cognitive function in children with brain tumors in the first year after 
diagnosis compared to healthy matched controls.

Shortman RI(1), Lowis SP, Penn A, McCarter RJ, Hunt LP, Brown CC, Stevens MC, 
Curran AL, Sharples PM.

Author information:
(1)Neuropsychology, Frenchay Hospital, Bristol, England.

BACKGROUND: Improved survival of children with brain tumors (BTs) has increased 
focus on ameliorating morbidity. To reduce the risk of progressive cognitive 
decline, remedial strategies need to be instituted early, based upon accurate 
appraisal of need, yet few studies have investigated cognition in BT children 
early post-diagnosis. The study aims were to investigate cognition in children 
with primary BTs 1, 6, and 12 months post-diagnosis compared with healthy 
children, exploring the impact of disease and treatment variables.
METHODS: Forty-eight children aged 2-16 years with primary BTs, referred to a 
Regional Neurosurgical Unit over the 2-year study period were eligible for 
enrollment. The "best friends" model was used to recruit matched controls. 
Cognition was assessed using age-appropriate Wechsler Intelligence scales; 
Children's Memory Scale; Test of Everyday Attention for Children, and Wechsler 
Quicktest.
RESULTS: Patients with BTs had significantly reduced performance compared to 
controls early post-diagnosis in tests of Performance IQ, processing speed, 
verbal and visual memory, and selective attention. Improved performance over 12 
months was seen in patients with BTs although also, for some measures, in 
controls. Significant deficits in cognitive performance were seen one year 
post-diagnosis for Verbal IQ; processing speed, visual and verbal immediate 
memory, and selective attention. Infratentorial site, high tumor grade, 
hydrocephalus, radiotherapy, and chemotherapy were associated with poorer 
functioning.
CONCLUSION: Early cognitive impairment is present in BT children, sometimes 
prior to radiotherapy/chemotherapy treatment, and is associated with 
hydrocephalus, high tumor grade and infratentorial site. Future studies should 
investigate the role of early rehabilitation in improving cognition.

© 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/pbc.24746
PMID: 24039108 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1174. Autism Res. 2013 Oct;6(5):362-71. doi: 10.1002/aur.1299. Epub 2013 Aug 29.

Empathic responsiveness of children and adolescents with high-functioning autism 
spectrum disorder.

Scheeren AM(1), Koot HM, Mundy PC, Mous L, Begeer S.

Author information:
(1)VU University Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands; Autism Research 
Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Previous studies have shown reduced empathic responsiveness to others' emotions 
in preschoolers with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and an intellectual 
disability. However, age and intelligence may promote children's empathic 
responsiveness. Therefore, we examined the empathic responsiveness in normally 
intelligent school-aged children and adolescents with a clinical diagnosis of 
ASD (n = 151) and in a typically developing comparison group (n = 50), using 
structured observations and parent reports. Based on the observations, 
participants' responses to the emotional displays of an interviewer were 
surprisingly similar. However, compared with parents from the comparison group, 
parents of a child with ASD reported significantly fewer empathic responses, 
particularly when the child received a high score on the Autism Diagnostic 
Observation Schedule. Even though parents report a reduced empathic 
responsiveness in school-aged children and adolescents with ASD, it may be 
difficult to find these empathic limitations during brief observations in a 
structured setting.

© 2013 International Society for Autism Research, Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/aur.1299
PMID: 24039228 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1175. Br J Nutr. 2013 Sep;110 Suppl 3:S57-64. doi: 10.1017/S0007114513002079.

Relationship between anthropometric indicators and cognitive performance in 
Southeast Asian school-aged children.

Sandjaja(1), Poh BK, Rojroonwasinkul N, Le Nyugen BK, Budiman B, Ng LO, 
Soonthorndhada K, Xuyen HT, Deurenberg P, Parikh P; SEANUTS Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Persatuan Ahli Gizi Indonesia (PERSAGI), Bogor 16112, Indonesia.

Nutrition is an important factor in mental development and, as a consequence, in 
cognitive performance. Malnutrition is reflected in children's weight, height 
and BMI curves. The present cross-sectional study aimed to evaluate the 
association between anthropometric indices and cognitive performance in 6746 
school-aged children (aged 6-12 years) of four Southeast Asian countries: 
Indonesia; Malaysia; Thailand; Vietnam. Cognitive performance (non-verbal 
intelligence quotient (IQ)) was measured using Raven's Progressive Matrices test 
or Test of Non-Verbal Intelligence, third edition (TONI-3). Height-for-age 
z-scores (HAZ), weight-for-age z-scores (WAZ) and BMI-for-age z-scores (BAZ) 
were used as anthropometric nutritional status indices. Data were weighted using 
age, sex and urban/rural weight factors to resemble the total primary 
school-aged population per country. Overall, 21% of the children in the four 
countries were underweight and 19% were stunted. Children with low WAZ were 3·5 
times more likely to have a non-verbal IQ < 89 (OR 3·53 and 95% CI 3·52, 3·54). 
The chance of having a non-verbal IQ < 89 was also doubled with low BAZ and HAZ. 
In contrast, except for severe obesity, the relationship between high BAZ and IQ 
was less clear and differed per country. The odds of having non-verbal IQ levels 
< 89 also increased with severe obesity. In conclusion, undernourishment and 
non-verbal IQ are significantly associated in 6-12-year-old children. Effective 
strategies to improve nutrition in preschoolers and school-aged children can 
have a pronounced effect on cognition and, in the longer term, help in 
positively contributing to individual and national development.

DOI: 10.1017/S0007114513002079
PMID: 24016767 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1176. Crit Rev Toxicol. 2013 Oct;43(9):785-99. doi: 10.3109/10408444.2013.832726.

A statistical reevaluation of the data used in the Lanphear et al. ( 2005 ) 
pooled-analysis that related low levels of blood lead to intellectual deficits 
in children.

Crump KS(1), Van Landingham C, Bowers TS, Cahoy D, Chandalia JK.

Author information:
(1)2220 South Vienna , Ruston, LA 71270 , USA .

A pooled-analysis by Lanphear et al. (2005) of seven cohort studies of the 
association between blood lead (BPb) concentrations in children and measures of 
their intelligence concluded that "environmental lead exposure in children who 
have maximal blood lead levels <7.5 μg/dL is associated with intellectual 
deficits." This study has played a prominent role in shaping the public 
understanding of the effects upon children's IQ of low BPb exposures (e.g., 
BPb ≤ 10 μg/dL). Here we present a reanalysis of the data used by Lanphear et 
al. to evaluate the robustness of their conclusions. Our analysis differed from 
that of Lanphear et al. primarily in how we controlled for non-lead variables 
(allowing a number of them to be site-specific), how we defined summary measures 
of BPb exposure, and in how we decided which BPb measures and transformations 
best modeled the data. We also reproduced the Lanphear et al. analysis. Although 
we found some small errors and questionable decisions by Lanphear et al. that, 
taken alone, could cause doubt in their conclusions, our reanalysis tended to 
support their conclusions. We concluded that there was statistical evidence that 
the exposure-response is non-linear over the full range of BPb evaluated in 
these studies, which implies that, for a given increase in blood lead, the 
associated IQ decrement is greater at lower BPb levels. However at BPb below 
10 µg/dL, the exposure-response is adequately modeled as linear. We also found 
statistical evidence for an association with IQ among children who had maximal 
measured BPb levels ≤7 μg/dL, and concurrent BPb levels as low as ≤5 μg/dL.

DOI: 10.3109/10408444.2013.832726
PMID: 24040996 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1177. Psychol Aging. 2013 Sep;28(3):595-613. doi: 10.1037/a0034172.

Complementary cognitive capabilities, economic decision making, and aging.

Li Y(1), Baldassi M(2), Johnson EJ(2), Weber EU(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Business Administration, University of California, Riverside.
(2)Center for Decision Sciences, Columbia Business School, Columbia University.

Fluid intelligence decreases with age, yet evidence about age declines in 
decision-making quality is mixed: Depending on the study, older adults make 
worse, equally good, or even better decisions than younger adults. We propose a 
potential explanation for this puzzle, namely that age differences in decision 
performance result from the interplay between two sets of cognitive capabilities 
that impact decision making, one in which older adults fare worse (i.e., fluid 
intelligence) and one in which they fare better (i.e., crystallized 
intelligence). Specifically, we hypothesized that older adults' higher levels of 
crystallized intelligence can provide an alternate pathway to good decisions 
when the fluid intelligence pathway declines. The performance of older adults 
relative to younger adults therefore depends on the relative importance of each 
type of intelligence for the decision at hand. We tested this complementary 
capabilities hypothesis in a broad sample of younger and older adults, 
collecting a battery of standard cognitive measures and measures of economically 
important decision-making "traits"--including temporal discounting, loss 
aversion, financial literacy, and debt literacy. We found that older 
participants performed as well as or better than younger participants on these 
four decision-making measures. Structural equation modeling verified our 
hypothesis: Older participants' greater crystallized intelligence offset their 
lower levels of fluid intelligence for temporal discounting, financial literacy, 
and debt literacy, but not for loss aversion. These results have important 
implications for public policy and for the design of effective decision 
environments for older adults.

DOI: 10.1037/a0034172
PMCID: PMC4086863
PMID: 24040999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1178. Psychol Aging. 2013 Sep;28(3):680-4. doi: 10.1037/a0033924.

Intellect and cognitive performance in the Lothian Birth Cohort 1936.

von Stumm S(1), Deary IJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Goldsmiths University of London.

Investment personality traits are thought to positively affect cognitive 
performance in old age, even after controlling for prior cognitive ability. In 
the Lothian Birth Cohort 1936 (N = 1,091), a cross-lagged model tested for 
reciprocal effects of the investment trait Intellect on verbal fluency, an 
indicator of crystallized intelligence, at age 70 and 73 years, while adjusting 
for general IQ at age 11 and 70 years. Intellect at age 70 was weakly associated 
with contemporaneous verbal fluency but had no significant effects on fluency at 
age 73. Conversely, verbal fluency at age 70 was significantly, positively 
related to Intellect at age 73. The results suggest that better verbal fluency 
precedes intellectual investment in old age rather than the other way around.

DOI: 10.1037/a0033924
PMID: 24041000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1179. Can J Exp Psychol. 2013 Sep;67(3):165-74. doi: 10.1037/a0033660.

Intelligence as it relates to conscious and unconscious memory influences.

Joordens S(1), Walsh D, Mantonakis A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology.

We examine the relationship between a measure of intelligence and estimates of 
conscious and unconscious memory influences derived using Jacoby's (Jacoby, L. 
L. [1991]. A process dissociation framework: Separating automatic from 
intentional uses of memory. Journal of Memory and Language, 30, 513-541.) 
process-dissociation procedure. We find a positive relationship between 
intelligence and conscious memory, and no relationship between intelligence and 
unconscious influences once the impact of conscious influences are removed 
(Experiment 1). We also find that when participants cannot engage in conscious 
strategies, such as when there is insufficient time for learning, the 
relationships observed in Experiment 1 are eliminated (Experiments 2A and 2B). 
Our results support the notion that individual differences in intelligence 
reflect differences in conscious strategic processes (Karis, D., Fabiani, M., & 
Donchin, E. [1984]. "P300" and memory: Individual differences in the von 
Restorff effect. Cognitive Psychology, 16, 177-216.) and not differences in 
mental speed (Eysenck, H. J. (1984). Intelligence versus behavior. The 
Behavioral and Brain Sciences, 7, 290-291; Jensen, A. R. [1982]. Bias in mental 
testing. New York, NY: Free Press).

PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2013 APA, all rights reserved

DOI: 10.1037/a0033660
PMID: 24041301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1180. Psychiatry Res. 2013 Nov 30;214(2):109-15. doi: 
10.1016/j.pscychresns.2013.06.004. Epub 2013 Sep 14.

Frontal cortical thinning and subcortical volume reductions in early adulthood 
obesity.

Marqués-Iturria I(1), Pueyo R, Garolera M, Segura B, Junqué C, García-García I, 
José Sender-Palacios M, Vernet-Vernet M, Narberhaus A, Ariza M, Jurado MÁ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Clinical Psychobiology, University of Barcelona, 
Barcelona, Spain; Institute for Brain, Cognition and Behavior (IR3C), Barcelona, 
Spain.

Obesity depends on homeostatic and hedonic food intake behavior, mediated by 
brain plasticity changes in cortical and subcortical structures. The aim of this 
study was to investigate cortical thickness and subcortical volumes of regions 
related to food intake behavior in a healthy young adult sample with obesity. 
Thirty-seven volunteers, 19 with obesity (age=33.7±5.7 (20-39) years body-mass 
index (BMI)=36.08±5.92 (30.10-49.69)kg/m(2)) and 18 controls (age=32.3±5.9 
(21-40) years; BMI=22.54±1.94 (19.53-24.97)kg/m(2)) participated in the study. 
Patients with neuropsychiatric or biomedical disorders were excluded. We used 
FreeSurfer software to analyze structural magnetic resonance images (MRI) and 
obtain global brain measures, cortical thickness and subcortical volume 
estimations. Finally, correlation analyses were performed for brain structure 
data and obesity measures. There were no between-group differences in age, 
gender, intelligence or education. Results showed cortical thickness reductions 
in obesity in the left superior frontal and right medial orbitofrontal cortex. 
In addition, the obesity group had lower ventral diencephalon and brainstem 
volumes than controls, while there were no differences in any other subcortical 
structure. There were no statistically significant correlations between brain 
structure and obesity measures. Overall, our work provides evidence of the 
structural brain characteristics associated with metabolically normal obesity. 
We found reductions in cortical thickness, ventral diencephalon and brainstem 
volumes in areas that have been implicated in food intake behavior.

© 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pscychresns.2013.06.004
PMID: 24041490 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1181. Theor Biol Med Model. 2013 Sep 18;10:57. doi: 10.1186/1742-4682-10-57.

Application of pattern recognition tools for classifying acute coronary 
syndrome: an integrated medical modeling.

Salari N(1), Shohaimi S, Najafi F, Nallappan M, Karishnarajah I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Faculty of Science, University Putra Malaysia, 
Serdang, Selangor, Malaysia. nader.salari.1344@gmail.com.

OBJECTIVE: The classification of Acute Coronary Syndrome (ACS), using artificial 
intelligence (AI), has recently drawn the attention of the medical researchers. 
Using this approach, patients with myocardial infarction can be differentiated 
from those with unstable angina. The present study aims to develop an integrated 
model, based on the feature selection and classification, for the automatic 
classification of ACS.
METHODS: A dataset containing medical records of 809 patients suspected to 
suffer from ACS was used. For each subject, 266 clinical factors were collected. 
At first, a feature selection was performed based on interviews with 20 
cardiologists; thereby 40 seminal features for classifying ACS were selected. 
Next, a feature selection algorithm was also applied to detect a subset of the 
features with the best classification accuracy. As a result, the feature numbers 
considerably reduced to only seven. Lastly, based on the seven selected 
features, eight various common pattern recognition tools for classification of 
ACS were used.
RESULTS: The performance of the aforementioned classifiers was compared based on 
their accuracy computed from their confusion matrices. Among these methods, the 
multi-layer perceptron showed the best performance with the 83.2% accuracy.
CONCLUSION: The results reveal that an integrated AI-based feature selection and 
classification approach is an effective method for the early and accurate 
classification of ACS and ultimately a timely diagnosis and treatment of this 
disease.

DOI: 10.1186/1742-4682-10-57
PMCID: PMC3848855
PMID: 24044669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1182. Theor Popul Biol. 2014 Feb;91:44-9. doi: 10.1016/j.tpb.2013.09.005. Epub 2013 
Sep 14.

Coevolution of intelligence, behavioral repertoire, and lifespan.

Ghirlanda S(1), Enquist M(2), Lind J(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Brooklyn College, 2900 Bedford Ave., Brooklyn, NY 
11210, USA; Center for the Study of Cultural Evolution, Stockholm University, 
Lilla frescativ. 7B, S-106 91, Stockholm, Sweden. Electronic address: 
drghirlanda@gmail.com.
(2)Center for the Study of Cultural Evolution, Stockholm University, Lilla 
frescativ. 7B, S-106 91, Stockholm, Sweden; Department of Zoology, Stockholm 
University, Svante Arrheniusv. 14D, S-106 91, Stockholm, Sweden. Electronic 
address: magnus.enquist@intercult.su.se.
(3)Center for the Study of Cultural Evolution, Stockholm University, Lilla 
frescativ. 7B, S-106 91, Stockholm, Sweden; Department of Zoology, Stockholm 
University, Svante Arrheniusv. 14D, S-106 91, Stockholm, Sweden. Electronic 
address: johan.lind@zoologi.su.se.

Erratum in
    Theor Popul Biol. 2014 Nov;97:57.
    Theor Popul Biol. 2014 Sep;96:19.

Across many taxa, intriguing positive correlations exist between intelligence 
(measured by proxy as encephalization), behavioral repertoire size, and 
lifespan. Here we argue, through a simple theoretical model, that such 
correlations arise from selection pressures for efficient learning of behavior 
sequences. We define intelligence operationally as the ability to disregard 
unrewarding behavior sequences, without trying them out, in the search for 
rewarding sequences. We show that increasing a species' behavioral repertoire 
increases the number of rewarding behavior sequences that can be performed, but 
also the time required to learn such sequences. This trade-off results in an 
optimal repertoire size that decreases rapidly with increasing sequence length. 
Behavioral repertoire size can be increased by increasing intelligence or 
lengthening the lifespan, giving rise to the observed correlations between these 
traits.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tpb.2013.09.005
PMID: 24044983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1183. Front Psychiatry. 2013 Sep 5;4:98. doi: 10.3389/fpsyt.2013.00098. eCollection 
2013.

Cocaine users manifest impaired prosodic and cross-modal emotion processing.

Hulka LM(1), Preller KH, Vonmoos M, Broicher SD, Quednow BB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Psychotherapy, and Psychosomatics, Experimental and 
Clinical Pharmacopsychology, University Hospital of Psychiatry Zurich , Zurich , 
Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: A small number of previous studies have provided evidence that 
cocaine users (CU) exhibit impairments in complex social cognition tasks, while 
the more basic facial emotion recognition is widely unaffected. However, prosody 
and cross-modal emotion processing has not been systematically investigated in 
CU so far. Therefore, the aim of the present study was to assess complex 
multisensory emotion processing in CU in comparison to controls and to examine a 
potential association with drug use patterns.
METHOD: The abbreviated version of the comprehensive affect testing system 
(CATS-A) was used to measure emotion perception across the three channels of 
facial affect, prosody, and semantic content in 58 CU and 48 healthy control 
(HC) subjects who were matched for age, sex, verbal intelligence, and years of 
education.
RESULTS: CU had significantly lower scores than controls in the quotient scales 
of "emotion recognition" and "prosody recognition" and the subtests "conflicting 
prosody/meaning - attend to prosody" and "match emotional prosody to emotional 
face" either requiring to attend to prosody or to integrate cross-modal 
information. In contrast, no group difference emerged for the "affect 
recognition quotient." Cumulative cocaine doses and duration of cocaine use 
correlated negatively with emotion processing.
CONCLUSION: CU show impaired cross-modal integration of different emotion 
processing channels particularly with regard to prosody, whereas more basic 
aspects of emotion processing such as facial affect perception are comparable to 
the performance of HC.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyt.2013.00098
PMCID: PMC3763688
PMID: 24046750


1184. J Am Acad Audiol. 2013 Jul-Aug;24(7):616-34. doi: 10.3766/jaaa.24.7.10.

Some factors underlying individual differences in speech recognition on PRESTO: 
a first report.

Tamati TN(1), Gilbert JL, Pisoni DB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Linguistics, Indiana University, Bloomington.

BACKGROUND: Previous studies investigating speech recognition in adverse 
listening conditions have found extensive variability among individual 
listeners. However, little is currently known about the core underlying factors 
that influence speech recognition abilities.
PURPOSE: To investigate sensory, perceptual, and neurocognitive differences 
between good and poor listeners on the Perceptually Robust English Sentence Test 
Open-set (PRESTO), a new high-variability sentence recognition test under 
adverse listening conditions.
RESEARCH DESIGN: Participants who fell in the upper quartile (HiPRESTO 
listeners) or lower quartile (LoPRESTO listeners) on key word recognition on 
sentences from PRESTO in multitalker babble completed a battery of behavioral 
tasks and self-report questionnaires designed to investigate real-world hearing 
difficulties, indexical processing skills, and neurocognitive abilities.
STUDY SAMPLE: Young, normal-hearing adults (N = 40) from the Indiana University 
community participated in the current study.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Participants' assessment of their own real-world 
hearing difficulties was measured with a self-report questionnaire on 
situational hearing and hearing health history. Indexical processing skills were 
assessed using a talker discrimination task, a gender discrimination task, and a 
forced-choice regional dialect categorization task. Neurocognitive abilities 
were measured with the Auditory Digit Span Forward (verbal short-term memory) 
and Digit Span Backward (verbal working memory) tests, the Stroop Color and Word 
Test (attention/inhibition), the WordFam word familiarity test (vocabulary 
size), the Behavioral Rating Inventory of Executive Function-Adult Version 
(BRIEF-A) self-report questionnaire on executive function, and two performance 
subtests of the Wechsler Abbreviated Scale of Intelligence (WASI) Performance 
Intelligence Quotient (IQ; nonverbal intelligence). Scores on self-report 
questionnaires and behavioral tasks were tallied and analyzed by listener group 
(HiPRESTO and LoPRESTO).
RESULTS: The extreme groups did not differ overall on self-reported hearing 
difficulties in real-world listening environments. However, an item-by-item 
analysis of questions revealed that LoPRESTO listeners reported significantly 
greater difficulty understanding speakers in a public place. HiPRESTO listeners 
were significantly more accurate than LoPRESTO listeners at gender 
discrimination and regional dialect categorization, but they did not differ on 
talker discrimination accuracy or response time, or gender discrimination 
response time. HiPRESTO listeners also had longer forward and backward digit 
spans, higher word familiarity ratings on the WordFam test, and lower (better) 
scores for three individual items on the BRIEF-A questionnaire related to 
cognitive load. The two groups did not differ on the Stroop Color and Word Test 
or either of the WASI performance IQ subtests.
CONCLUSIONS: HiPRESTO listeners and LoPRESTO listeners differed in indexical 
processing abilities, short-term and working memory capacity, vocabulary size, 
and some domains of executive functioning. These findings suggest that 
individual differences in the ability to encode and maintain highly detailed 
episodic information in speech may underlie the variability observed in speech 
recognition performance in adverse listening conditions using high-variability 
PRESTO sentences in multitalker babble.

American Academy of Audiology.

DOI: 10.3766/jaaa.24.7.10
PMCID: PMC3799882
PMID: 24047949 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1185. Neurology. 2013 Oct 15;81(16):1434-40. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0b013e3182a84163. Epub 
2013 Sep 18.

Duplications of 17q12 can cause familial fever-related epilepsy syndromes.

Hardies K(1), Weckhuysen S, Peeters E, Holmgren P, Van Esch H, De Jonghe P, Van 
Paesschen W, Suls A.

Author information:
(1)From the Neurogenetics Group (K.H., S.W., P.H., P.D.J., A.S.), Department of 
Molecular Genetics, VIB, Antwerp; Laboratory of Neurogenetics (K.H., S.W., P.H., 
P.D.J., A.S.), Institute Born-Bunge, University of Antwerp; Department of 
Neurology (E.P., W.V.P.), University Hospital Gasthuisberg, Leuven; Center for 
Human Genetics (H.V.E.), University Hospitals Leuven, KU Leuven; and Division of 
Neurology (P.D.J.), Antwerp University Hospital, Antwerp, Belgium.

OBJECTIVES: After we identified a 17q12 duplication cosegregating in a 
4-generation family with genetic or generalized epilepsy with febrile seizures 
plus (GEFS+), we aimed to determine the frequency of 17q12 genomic 
rearrangements in GEFS+ and a wide spectrum of other epilepsy phenotypes. We 
furthermore describe seizure prevalence in previously reported patients with a 
17q12 duplication or deletion.
METHODS: We analyzed 433 patients with a broad range of epilepsy phenotypes. The 
180k Cytosure ISCA v2 array was used for copy number variation screening in the 
index patient. Segregation analysis and follow-up studies were performed with 
the multiplex amplicon quantification technique.
RESULTS: We identified 2 families in which a 17q12 duplication segregated with 
febrile-sensitive epilepsy. In the follow-up study, the mutation rate in 
familial febrile seizures (FS) and GEFS+ phenotypes was 1/222. No 17q12 
deletions were detected. Two of the 6 mutation carriers in the initial GEFS+ 
family had mild intellectual disability, whereas all family members of the 
second family were of normal intelligence. In the literature, 4 of 43 
individuals with a 17q12 duplication and 4 of 55 with the reciprocal deletion 
were described to have had seizures.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study shows that 17q12 duplications are a rare cause of 
familial FS and GEFS+. Although some family members might have intellectual 
disability, seizures can be the sole clinical symptom. This is the first report 
on an inherited copy number variation in these self-limiting fever-sensitive 
epilepsy syndromes, potentially revealing a novel pathomechanism involved in 
familial FS and GEFS+.

DOI: 10.1212/WNL.0b013e3182a84163
PMID: 24049133 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1186. Int J Cogn Ther. 2013 Mar 1;6(1):1-16. doi: 10.1521/ijct.2013.6.1.1.

Positive Affect Enhances the Association of Hypomanic Personality and Cognitive 
Flexibility.

Fulford D(1), Feldman G, Tabak BA, McGillicuddy M, Johnson SL.

Author information:
(1)University of Miami.

Several lines of research have suggested a link between mania and creativity, 
The goal of the present study was to test whether positive affect moderated the 
relationship between risk for mania (assessed with the Hypomanic Personality 
Scale [HPS]) and a variable postulated to be a cognitive component of 
creativity: cognitive flexibility. Fifty-three undergraduate students were 
randomly assigned to either a neutral or positive mood induction condition. They 
then completed the Delis-Kaplan Executive Function System (DKEFS) Sorting Test 
as a measure of cognitive flexibility. Consistent with our hypothesis, higher 
HPS scores were associated with greater cognitive flexibility among participants 
in the positive mood induction condition. Covariate analyses revealed that 
results were not confounded by verbal intelligence or the presence of current 
depression symptoms. Our findings suggest a mood-dependent link between 
hypomanic personality and one potential component of creative cognition.

DOI: 10.1521/ijct.2013.6.1.1
PMCID: PMC3774311
PMID: 24049557


1187. J Int Neuropsychol Soc. 2013 Nov;19(10):1128-33. doi: 10.1017/S1355617713001082. 
Epub 2013 Sep 19.

Active cognitive reserve influences the regional atrophy to cognition link in 
multiple sclerosis.

Booth AJ(1), Rodgers JD, Schwartz CE, Quaranto BR, Weinstock-Guttman B, 
Zivadinov R, Benedict RH.

Author information:
(1)1 Department of Neurology, State University of New York (SUNY) at Buffalo, 
School of Medicine and Biomedical Sciences, Buffalo, New York.

Recent research indicates that cognitive reserve mitigates the clinical 
expression of neuropsychological impairment in multiple sclerosis (MS). This 
literature primarily uses premorbid intelligence and lifetime experiences as 
indicators. However, changes in current recreational activities may also 
contribute to the maintenance of neural function despite brain atrophy. We 
examined the moderation effects of current changes in recreational activity on 
the relationship between brain atrophy and information processing speed in 57 
relapsing-remitting MS patients. Current enrichment was assessed using the 
Recreation and Pastimes subscale from the Sickness Impact Profile. In patients 
reporting current declines in recreational activities, brain atrophy was 
negatively associated with cognition, but there was no such association in 
participants reporting stable participation. The MRI metric-by-recreational 
activity interaction was significant in separate hierarchical regression 
analyses conducted using third ventricle width, neocortical volume, T2 lesion 
volume, and thalamic volume as brain measures. Results suggest that recreational 
activities protect against brain atrophy's detrimental influence on cognition.

DOI: 10.1017/S1355617713001082
PMID: 24050681 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1188. Neuropsychobiology. 2013;68(3):139-45. doi: 10.1159/000353252. Epub 2013 Sep 13.

Facial affect recognition performance and event-related potentials in violent 
and non-violent schizophrenia patients.

Frommann N(1), Stroth S, Brinkmeyer J, Wölwer W, Luckhaus C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, Medical Faculty, Heinrich Heine 
University of Düsseldorf, Düsseldorf, Germany.

We investigated whether male inpatients with schizophrenia and a history of 
hands-on violent offences (forensic schizophrenic, FOS) are more impaired in 
emotion recognition than matched schizophrenia patients without any history of 
violence (general psychiatric schizophrenic, GPS). This should become apparent 
in performance in psychometry and in scalp event-related brain potentials (ERPs) 
evoked by pictures of facial affect. FOS and GPS (each n = 19) were matched 
concerning age, intelligence, comorbid addiction, medication and illness 
duration. FOS revealed significantly poorer affect recognition (AR) performance, 
especially of neutral and fear stimuli. Analysis of ERPs revealed a significant 
interaction of hemisphere, electrode position and group of the N250 component. 
Post hoc analysis of group effect showed significantly larger amplitudes in FOS 
at FC3. These results support the hypothesis that in FOS emotional faces are 
more salient and evoke higher arousal. Larger impairment in AR performance 
combined with higher salience and arousal may contribute to the occurrence of 
violent acts in schizophrenia patients.

Copyright © 2013 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000353252
PMID: 24051542 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1189. IEEE Trans Vis Comput Graph. 2013 Dec;19(12):1972-81. doi: 
10.1109/TVCG.2013.146.

Decision exploration lab: a visual analytics solution for decision management.

Broeksema B(1), Baudel T, Telea AG, Crisafulli P.

Author information:
(1)IBM France Center for Advanced Studies, Institute Johann Bernoulli, 
University of Groningen, The Netherlands andINRIA, University of Bordeaux, 
France.

We present a visual analytics solution designed to address prevalent issues in 
the area of Operational Decision Management (ODM). In ODM, which has its roots 
in Artificial Intelligence (Expert Systems) and Management Science, it is 
increasingly important to align business decisions with business goals. In our 
work, we consider decision models (executable models of the business domain) as 
ontologies that describe the business domain, and production rules that describe 
the business logic of decisions to be made over this ontology. Executing a 
decision model produces an accumulation of decisions made over time for 
individual cases. We are interested, first, to get insight in the decision logic 
and the accumulated facts by themselves. Secondly and more importantly, we want 
to see how the accumulated facts reveal potential divergences between the 
reality as captured by the decision model, and the reality as captured by the 
executed decisions. We illustrate the motivation, added value for visual 
analytics, and our proposed solution and tooling through a business case from 
the car insurance industry.

DOI: 10.1109/TVCG.2013.146
PMID: 24051763 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1190. IEEE Trans Vis Comput Graph. 2013 Dec;19(12):2139-48. doi: 
10.1109/TVCG.2013.132.

An extensible framework for provenance in human terrain visual analytics.

Walker R(1), Slingsby A, Dykes J, Xu K, Wood J, Nguyen PH, Stephens D, Wong BL, 
Zheng Y.

Author information:
(1)Middlesex University.

We describe and demonstrate an extensible framework that supports data 
exploration and provenance in the context of Human Terrain Analysis (HTA). 
Working closely with defence analysts we extract requirements and a list of 
features that characterise data analysed at the end of the HTA chain. From 
these, we select an appropriate non-classified data source with analogous 
features, and model it as a set of facets. We develop ProveML, an XML-based 
extension of the Open Provenance Model, using these facets and augment it with 
the structures necessary to record the provenance of data, analytical process 
and interpretations. Through an iterative process, we develop and refine a 
prototype system for Human Terrain Visual Analytics (HTVA), and demonstrate 
means of storing, browsing and recalling analytical provenance and process 
through analytic bookmarks in ProveML. We show how these bookmarks can be 
combined to form narratives that link back to the live data. Throughout the 
process, we demonstrate that through structured workshops, rapid prototyping and 
structured communication with intelligence analysts we are able to establish 
requirements, and design schema, techniques and tools that meet the requirements 
of the intelligence community. We use the needs and reactions of defence 
analysts in defining and steering the methods to validate the framework.

DOI: 10.1109/TVCG.2013.132
PMID: 24051780 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1191. Hum Resour Health. 2013 Sep 21;11:45. doi: 10.1186/1478-4491-11-45.

An evaluation of the global network of field epidemiology and laboratory 
training programmes: a resource for improving public health capacity and 
increasing the number of public health professionals worldwide.

Subramanian RE(1), Herrera DG, Kelly PM.

Author information:
(1)The Task Force for Global Health Inc, TEPHINET Program, 325 Swanton Way, 
Decatur, Georgia 30030, USA. rsubrams@tephinet.org.

BACKGROUND: Given that many infectious diseases spread rapidly, across borders 
and species, there is a growing worldwide need to increase the number of public 
health professionals skilled in controlling infectious epidemics. Needed also 
are more public health professionals skilled in non-communicable disease 
surveillance and interventions. As a result, we surveyed all 57 field 
epidemiology training programmes (FETPs) that are members of the Training 
Program in Epidemiology and Public Health Interventions Network (TEPHINET), to 
evaluate the progress of the FETPs, the only global applied epidemiology 
network, toward increasing public health capacity globally.
METHODS: Data on the FETP programmes and the training they provide were 
abstracted from TEPHINET membership surveys and verified with FETP directors for 
all FETPs that were members of TEPHINET in 2012. Data on abstracts submitted to 
the recent TEPHINET Global Scientific Conference, on recent accomplishments by 
each FETP, and on quality improvement were also compiled to provide a worldwide 
view of the public health human resource capacity produced by these programmes.
RESULTS: A total of 6980 public health professionals worldwide have graduated 
from an FETP or from the Center for Disease Control and Prevention's 
Epidemiology Intelligence Service (EIS). FETP residents and graduates 
participate in key public health prevention, control, and response activities. 
Each FETP has adapted its curriculum and objectives over time to align with its 
country's public health priorities. FETPs are well integrated into their 
national public health infrastructures, and they have many partners at the 
national, regional and global levels.
CONCLUSION: FETPs are a competent and diverse source of highly skilled public 
health professionals who contribute significantly to public health's global 
human resource needs. This finding is evidenced by 1) the training curricula 
that were adapted over time to meet public health's human resource needs, 2) the 
FETPs' continued support from internal and external partners, 3) the increasing 
number of FETP residents and graduates and their increasing contribution to 
effective public health work, and 4) the increased quality improvement 
initiatives facilitated through the FETPs membership in one global network, 
TEPHINET.

DOI: 10.1186/1478-4491-11-45
PMCID: PMC3849587
PMID: 24053689 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1192. Forensic Sci Int. 2013 Oct 10;232(1-3):111-24. doi: 
10.1016/j.forsciint.2013.07.013. Epub 2013 Aug 9.

Towards the integration of matrix assisted laser desorption ionisation mass 
spectrometry imaging into the current fingermark examination workflow.

Bradshaw R(1), Bleay S, Wolstenholme R, Clench MR, Francese S.

Author information:
(1)Biomedical Research Centre, Sheffield Hallam University, Sheffield, UK.

A wide range of fingermark enhancement techniques (FET) is currently employed to 
visualise latent fingermarks at crime scenes. However, if smudged, partial, 
distorted or absent in the National Fingerprint Database, crime scene marks may 
be not useful for identification purposes. In these circumstances, a technology 
enabling chemical imaging of both endogenous and exogenous species contained 
within the fingermark could provide additional and associative investigative 
information, to profile the suspect's activities prior to the crime. Matrix 
Assisted Laser Desorption Ionisation Mass Spectrometry Imaging (MALDI MSI) has 
proven to be such a technique, enabling investigative information to be 
gathered, for example, on what substances the donor has come in contact with and 
what they have ingested. Nonetheless, to be employed, MALDI MSI has to be 
validated and its compatibility with FET tested for integration into the 
standard fingermark examination workflow. For the first time, a direct 
comparison has been made between the efficiency of a range of FET and MALDI MSI 
under different conditions. This information will build towards validation of 
the technology. Also, for the first time, MALDI MSI has been successfully 
employed as a sequential step following fingermark enhancement using many of the 
currently employed FET. Additionally, known enhancers have been "re-visited" by 
combining them with a MALDI matrix, providing both improved fingermark 
development and chemical species detection via MALDI MSI. The result reported 
here are good indication in favour of the integration of MALDI MSI into the 
current fingermark examination workflow for gathering additional investigative 
information.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.forsciint.2013.07.013
PMID: 24053872 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1193. Forensic Sci Int. 2013 Oct 10;232(1-3):180-90. doi: 
10.1016/j.forsciint.2013.07.022. Epub 2013 Aug 8.

The systematic profiling of false identity documents: method validation and 
performance evaluation using seizures known to originate from common and 
different sources.

Baechler S(1), Terrasse V, Pujol JP, Fritz T, Ribaux O, Margot P.

Author information:
(1)Institut de Police Scientifique, Ecole des Sciences Criminelles, University 
of Lausanne, 1015 Lausanne, Switzerland; Service forensique, Police 
neuchâteloise, Rue des poudrières 14, 2006 Neuchâtel, Switzerland. Electronic 
address: Simon.Baechler@unil.ch.

False identity documents constitute a potential powerful source of forensic 
intelligence because they are essential elements of transnational crime and 
provide cover for organized crime. In previous work, a systematic profiling 
method using false documents' visual features has been built within a forensic 
intelligence model. In the current study, the comparison process and metrics 
lying at the heart of this profiling method are described and evaluated. This 
evaluation takes advantage of 347 false identity documents of four different 
types seized in two countries whose sources were known to be common or different 
(following police investigations and dismantling of counterfeit factories). 
Intra-source and inter-sources variations were evaluated through the computation 
of more than 7500 similarity scores. The profiling method could thus be 
validated and its performance assessed using two complementary approaches to 
measuring type I and type II error rates: a binary classification and the 
computation of likelihood ratios. Very low error rates were measured across the 
four document types, demonstrating the validity and robustness of the method to 
link documents to a common source or to differentiate them. These results pave 
the way for an operational implementation of a systematic profiling process 
integrated in a developed forensic intelligence model.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.forsciint.2013.07.022
PMID: 24053879


1194. Psychiatry Res. 2013 Dec 30;210(3):773-9. doi: 10.1016/j.psychres.2013.08.024. 
Epub 2013 Sep 17.

Development of brief versions of the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for 
schizophrenia: considerations of the structure and predictability of 
intelligence.

Sumiyoshi C(1), Uetsuki M, Suga M, Kasai K, Sumiyoshi T.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Human Development and Culture, Fukushima University, 1 Kanayagawa, 
Fukushima 960-1296, Japan. Electronic address: sumiyoshi@educ.fukushima-u.ac.jp.

Short forms (SF) of the Wechsler Intelligence Scale have been developed to 
enhance its practicality. However, only a few studies have addressed the 
Wechsler Intelligence Scale Revised (WAIS-R) SFs based on data from patients 
with schizophrenia. The current study was conducted to develop the WAIS-R SFs 
for these patients based on the intelligence structure and predictability of the 
Full IQ (FIQ). Relations to demographic and clinical variables were also 
examined on selecting plausible subtests. The WAIS-R was administered to 90 
Japanese patients with schizophrenia. Exploratory factor analysis (EFA) and 
multiple regression analysis were conducted to find potential subtests. EFA 
extracted two dominant factors corresponding to Verbal IQ and Performance IQ 
measures. Subtests with higher factor loadings on those factors were initially 
nominated. Regression analysis was carried out to reach the model containing all 
the nominated subtests. The optimality of the potential subtests included in 
that model was evaluated from the perspectives of the representativeness of 
intelligence structure, FIQ predictability, and the relation with demographic 
and clinical variables. Taken together, the dyad of Vocabulary and Block Design 
was considered to be the most optimal WAIS-R SF for patients with schizophrenia, 
reflecting both intelligence structure and FIQ predictability.

© 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2013.08.024
PMID: 24054061 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1195. Arch Clin Neuropsychol. 2013 Dec;28(8):784-90. doi: 10.1093/arclin/act074. Epub 
2013 Sep 20.

Cultural differences in neuropsychological abilities required to perform 
intelligence tasks.

Fasfous AF(1), Hidalgo-Ruzzante N, Vilar-López R, Catena-Martínez A, 
Pérez-García M.

Author information:
(1)School of Psychology, University of Granada, Granada, Spain.

Different studies have demonstrated that culture has a basic role in 
intelligence tests performance. Nevertheless, the specific neuropsychological 
abilities used by different cultures to perform an intelligence test have never 
been explored. In this study, we examine the differences between Spaniards and 
Moroccans in the neuropsychological abilities utilized to perform the Beta III 
as a non-verbal intelligence test. The results showed that the Spaniard group 
obtained a higher IQ than the Moroccan group in the Beta III. Moreover, the 
neuropsychological abilities that predicted scores for the Beta III were 
dependent on the country of origin and were different for each subtest. Besides 
showing the cultural effect on non-verbal intelligence test performance, our 
results suggest that a single test may measure different functions, depending on 
the subject's cultural background.

DOI: 10.1093/arclin/act074
PMID: 24055883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1196. Indian J Med Res. 2013;138(1):89-98.

Prevalence of specific developmental disorder of scholastic skill in school 
students in Chandigarh, India.

Arun P(1), Chavan BS, Bhargava R, Sharma A, Kaur J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Government Medical College & Hospital, Chandigarh, 
India.

BACKGROUND & OBJECTIVES: Several studies have been conducted in India to 
determine the prevalence of learning disabilities in school children which has 
been reported to be 3-10 per cent among students population. The present study 
was conducted to find out prevalence of specific developmental disorder of 
scholastic skills in students of classes VII to XII and to find out feasibility 
of screening tool in Chandigarh, India.
METHODS: A cross-sectional study on school students was carried out in two 
phases. The students were drawn from classes VII to XII from 10 schools of 
Chandigarh, India. Details of academic performance of all the students was 
taken, subjectively from class teachers and objectively from the marks obtained 
in the last academic session. In phase I, 2402 students were assessed. In phase 
II, 108 students were randomly selected for evaluation for assessing sensitivity 
and specificity of screening proforma for teachers. A total of 124 students from 
phase I and all students in phase II were assessed in detail. Tests of 
intelligence (Malin's Intelligence Scale for Indian Children and Standard 
Progressive Matrices), and NIMHANS Index for specific learning disability (SLD) 
battery were administered.
RESULTS: A total of 38 students were found to be having specific developmental 
disorder of scholastic skills in phase I, that gave a prevalence of 1.58 per 
cent. Majority had mixed type of errors on SLD battery. There were more boys 
diagnosed with specific learning disability. Teacher's screening instrument had 
high sensitivity (90.385) and specificity (94.68).
INTERPRETATION & CONCLUSIONS: The findings of our study conducted in community, 
showed that specific learning disability was not identified even till later age. 
The screening instrument thus could be used by teachers to suspect students with 
specific learning disability.

PMCID: PMC3767262
PMID: 24056561 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1197. PLoS One. 2013 Sep 13;8(9):e74980. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0074980. 
eCollection 2013.

Modeling individual subtests of the WAIS IV with multiple latent factors.

McFarland DJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Neural Injury and Repair, Wadsworth Center, New York State 
Department of Health, Albany, New York, United States of America.

Performance on a cognitive test can be viewed either as measuring a unitary 
function or as reflecting the operation of multiple factors. Individual subtests 
in batteries designed to measure human abilities are commonly modeled as a 
single latent factor. Several latent factors are then used to model groups of 
subtests. However these latent factors are not independent as they are related 
through hierarchical or oblique structures. As a result, the simple structure of 
subtest performance results in complex latent factors. The present study used 
structural equation modeling to evaluate several multidimensional models of the 
Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scales-fourth edition (WAIS-IV) subtests. 
Multidimensional models of subtest performance provided better model fit as 
compared to several previously proposed one dimensional models. These 
multidimensional models also generalized well to new samples of populations 
differing in age from that used to estimate the model parameters. Overall these 
results show that models that describe subtests as multidimensional functions of 
uncorrelated factors provided a better fit to the WAIS-IV correlations than 
models that describe subtests as one dimensional functions of correlated 
factors. There appears to be a trade-off in modeling subtests as one dimensional 
and modeling with homogeneous latent traits. More consideration should be given 
to models that include multiple uncorrelated latent factors as determinants of 
the performance on a given subtest. These results support the view that 
performance on any given cognitive test is potentially the result of multiple 
factors. Simple structure may be too simple.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0074980
PMCID: PMC3772883
PMID: 24058643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The author has declared 
that no competing interests exist.


1198. Neuropsychology. 2013 Nov;27(6):666-79. doi: 10.1037/a0034117. Epub 2013 Sep 23.

Effects of interactive metronome therapy on cognitive functioning after 
blast-related brain injury: a randomized controlled pilot trial.

Nelson LA(1), Macdonald M, Stall C, Pazdan R.

Author information:
(1)Defense and Veterans Brain Injury Center.

OBJECTIVE: We report preliminary findings on the efficacy of interactive 
metronome (IM) therapy for the remediation of cognitive difficulties in soldiers 
with persisting cognitive complaints following blast-related mild-to-moderate 
traumatic brain injury (TBI).
METHOD: Forty-six of a planned sample of 50 active duty soldiers with persistent 
cognitive complaints following a documented history of blast-related TBI of 
mild-to-moderate severity were randomly assigned to receive either standard 
rehabilitation care (SRC) or SRC plus a 15-session standardized course of IM 
therapy. Primary outcome measures were Repeatable Battery for the Assessment of 
Neuropsychological Status (RBANS) Index Scores. Secondary outcome measures 
included selected subtests from the Delis-Kaplan Executive Functioning System 
(Trail Making Test and Color-Word Interference) and the Wechsler Adult 
Intelligence Scale-Fourth Edition (Symbol Search, Digit-Symbol Coding, Digit 
Span, and Letter-Number Sequencing) as well as the Integrated Visual and 
Auditory Continuous Performance Test.
RESULTS: Significant group differences (SRC vs. IM) were observed for RBANS 
Attention (p = .044), Immediate Memory (p = .019), and Delayed Memory (p = .031) 
indices in unadjusted analyses, with the IM group showing significantly greater 
improvement at Time 2 than the SRC group, with effect sizes in the 
medium-to-large range in the adjusted analyses for each outcome (Cohen's d = 
0.511, 0.768, and 0.527, respectively). Though not all were statistically 
significant, effects in 21 of 26 cognitive outcome measures were consistently in 
favor of the IM treatment group (binomial probability = .00098).
CONCLUSION: The addition of IM therapy to SRC appears to have a positive effect 
on neuropsychological outcomes for soldiers who have sustained mild-to-moderate 
TBI and have persistent cognitive complaints after the period for expected 
recovery has passed.

PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2013 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/a0034117
PMID: 24059443 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1199. Neuropsychologia. 2013 Nov;51(13):2799-811. doi: 
10.1016/j.neuropsychologia.2013.09.028. Epub 2013 Sep 20.

Humor processing in children: influence of temperament, age and IQ.

Vrticka P(1), Black JM, Neely M, Walter Shelly E, Reiss AL.

Author information:
(1)Center for Interdisciplinary Brain Sciences Research, Department of 
Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305, 
USA. Electronic address: pvrticka@stanford.edu.

Emerging evidence from fMRI studies suggests that humor processing is a specific 
social cognitive-affective human function that comprises two stages. The first 
stage (cognitive humor component) involves the detection and resolution of 
incongruity, and is associated with activity in temporo-occipito-parietal brain 
areas. The second stage (emotional humor component) comprises positive feelings 
related to mirth/reward, and is linked with reward-related activity in 
mesocorticolimbic circuits. In healthy adults, humor processing was shown to be 
moderated by temperament traits like intro-/extraversion, neuroticism, or social 
anxiety, representing risk factors for psychopathology. However, comparable data 
from early developmental stages is crucially lacking. Here, we report for the 
first time data from 22 children (ages 6 to 13) revealing an influence of 
temperament on humor processing. Specifically, we assessed the effects of 
Emotionality, Shyness, and Sociability, which are analogous to neuroticism, 
behavioral inhibition/fear and extraversion in adults. We found Emotionality to 
be positively, but Shyness negatively associated with brain activity linked with 
both cognitive and emotional humor components. In addition, Shyness and 
Sociability were positively related to activity in the periaqueductal gray 
region during humor processing. These findings are of potential clinical 
relevance regarding the early detection of childhood psychopathology. Previous 
data on humor processing in both adults and children furthermore suggest that 
intelligence (IQ) supports incongruity detection and resolution, whereas mirth 
and associated brain activity diminishes with increasing age. Here, we found 
that increasing age and IQ were linked with stronger activity to humor in brain 
areas implicated in the cognitive component of humor. Such data suggest that 
humor processing undergoes developmental changes and is moderated by higher IQ 
scores, both factors likely improving incongruity detection and resolution.

© 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuropsychologia.2013.09.028
PMID: 24060844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1200. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2014 Feb;68(2):130-6. doi: 
10.1136/jech-2013-202637. Epub 2013 Sep 23.

Intelligence in early adulthood and mortality from natural and unnatural causes 
in middle-aged Danish men.

Meincke RH(1), Mortensen EL, Avlund K, Rosthøj S, Sørensen HJ, Osler M.

Author information:
(1)Section of Social Medicine, Department of Public Health, University of 
Copenhagen, , Copenhagen, Denmark.

BACKGROUND: High intelligence early in life has consistently been associated 
with decreased mortality, but the mechanisms are still not fully understood. In 
this cohort study, we examined the association between intelligence in early 
adulthood and later mortality from natural and unnatural causes taking birth 
weight, parental socioeconomic position, participants' own education and body 
mass index into account.
METHODS: 13 536 Danish men born in 1953 and 1959-1961 with data from birth 
certificates and intelligence test scores from conscription were followed until 
2009. Information on vital status was obtained from the Civil Registration 
System. Mortality risks were analysed by the multiple Cox proportional hazards 
model.
RESULTS: The risk of mortality from natural as well as unnatural causes was more 
than twice as high among men in the lowest scoring intelligence tertile 
(HRnatural deaths=2.24; 1.90-2.65 and HRunnatural deaths=2.67; 2.03-3.53). 
Adjusting for all covariates attenuated the estimates, but the association 
remained (HRnatural deaths=1.82; 1.48-2.25 and HRunnatural deaths=2.30; 
1.63-3.25).
CONCLUSIONS: In men, intelligence in early adulthood was inversely associated 
with midlife mortality from natural and unnatural causes. The associations 
remained after adjustments for a range of covariates.

DOI: 10.1136/jech-2013-202637
PMID: 24062410 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1201. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2013 Oct 8;110(41):16645-50. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.1304665110. Epub 2013 Sep 23.

Basal variability in CREB phosphorylation predicts trait-like differences in 
amygdala-dependent memory.

Cowansage KK(1), Bush DE, Josselyn SA, Klann E, Ledoux JE.

Author information:
(1)Center for Neural Science, New York University, New York, NY 10003.

Much of what is known about the neurobiology of learning and memory comes from 
studies of the average behavior. In contrast, intersubject differences that 
emerge within groups are difficult to study systematically and are often 
excluded from scientific discussion. Nevertheless, population-wide variability 
is a virtually universal feature of both complex traits, such as intelligence, 
and hardwired responses, such as defensive behaviors. Here, we use outbred rats 
to investigate if cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB), a transcription 
factor that has long been known in experimental settings to be crucial for 
associative plasticity, participates in natural memory phenotypes. Using a 
combination of behavioral, biochemical, and viral techniques, we show that a 
subset of rats with trait-like deficits in aversive memory have basally reduced 
CREB activity in the lateral amygdala but can be induced to perform at average 
levels by directly or indirectly enhancing pretraining CREB phosphorylation. 
These data suggest that endogenous CREB activity in the amygdala may set a 
critical threshold for plasticity during memory formation.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1304665110
PMCID: PMC3799321
PMID: 24062441 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


1202. Schizophr Bull. 2013 Nov;39(6):1180-6. doi: 10.1093/schbul/sbt134. Epub 2013 Sep 
23.

The social defeat hypothesis of schizophrenia: an update.

Selten JP(1), van der Ven E, Rutten BP, Cantor-Graae E.

Author information:
(1)*To whom correspondence should be addressed; GGZ Leiden, Sandifortdreef 19, 
2333 ZZ Leiden, The Netherlands; tel: 31-71-890-7209, fax: 31-71-890-8101, 
e-mail: j.selten@ggzleiden.nl.

According to the social defeat (SD) hypothesis, published in 2005, long-term 
exposure to the experience of SD may lead to sensitization of the mesolimbic 
dopamine (DA) system and thereby increase the risk for schizophrenia. The 
hypothesis posits that SD (ie, the negative experience of being excluded from 
the majority group) is the common denominator of 5 major schizophrenia risk 
factors: urban upbringing, migration, childhood trauma, low intelligence, and 
drug abuse. The purpose of this update of the literature since 2005 is to answer 
2 questions: (1) What is the evidence that SD explains the association between 
schizophrenia and these risk factors? (2) What is the evidence that SD leads to 
sensitization of the mesolimbic DA system? The evidence for SD as the mechanism 
underlying the increased risk was found to be strongest for migration and 
childhood trauma, while the evidence for urban upbringing, low intelligence, and 
drug abuse is suggestive, but insufficient. Some other findings that may support 
the hypothesis are the association between risk for schizophrenia and African 
American ethnicity, unemployment, single status, hearing impairment, autism, 
illiteracy, short stature, Klinefelter syndrome, and, possibly, sexual minority 
status. While the evidence that SD in humans leads to sensitization of the 
mesolimbic DA system is not sufficient, due to lack of studies, the evidence for 
this in animals is strong. The authors argue that the SD hypothesis provides a 
parsimonious and plausible explanation for a number of epidemiological findings 
that cannot be explained solely by genetic confounding.

DOI: 10.1093/schbul/sbt134
PMCID: PMC3796093
PMID: 24062592 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1203. Shinrigaku Kenkyu. 2013 Aug;84(3):229-37. doi: 10.4992/jjpsy.84.229.

[Development of the Japanese version of the Emotion Awareness Questionnaire for 
junior high school students].

[Article in Japanese]

Ishizu K(1), Shimoda Y.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Human Development, University of Toyama, Gofuku, Toyama 930-8555, 
Japan. k142@edu.u-toyama.ac.jp

This study reports about the development of the Japanese version of the Emotion 
Awareness Questionnaire for junior high school students. Emotion Awareness 
Questionnaire (EAQ; Rieffe, Oosterveld, Miers, Meerum Terwogt, & Ly, 2008) for 
children and adolescents aims not only to monitor and differentiate emotions but 
also to measure attitudes about emotions. It consists of six factors: 
differentiating emotions, verbal sharing of emotions, not hiding emotion, bodily 
awareness, attending to others' emotion, analyses of emotions. To examine the 
reliability and validity of the Japanese version of the EAQ, junior high school 
students (7th to 9th grades) were requested to complete the questionnaires (n = 
535 in time 1, n = 537 in time 2, n = 330 in time 3). The results showed that 
the Japanese version of the EAQ had almost the same six-factor structure as the 
original one. It also had moderate internal consistency and test-retest 
reliability (three weeks). The validity of the scale was examined in relation to 
emotional intelligence, social anxiety, depression, psychological stress 
responses, evaluation of emotions, self esteem and sense of authenticity. The 
results confirmed that the Japanese version of the EAQ had good validity.

DOI: 10.4992/jjpsy.84.229
PMID: 24063149 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1204. Early Hum Dev. 2013 Dec;89(12):983-8. doi: 10.1016/j.earlhumdev.2013.08.021. 
Epub 2013 Sep 21.

Visual search and attention in five-year-old very preterm/very low birth weight 
children.

Geldof CJ(1), de Kieviet JF, Dik M, Kok JH, van Wassenaer-Leemhuis AG, 
Oosterlaan J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Neuropsychology, VU University Amsterdam, Amsterdam, 
The Netherlands; Royal Dutch Visio, Centre of Expertise for Blind and Partially 
Sighted People, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. Electronic address: 
c.j.a.geldof@vu.nl.

INTRODUCTION: This study aimed to establish visual search performance and 
attention functioning in very preterm/very low birth weight (VP/VLBW) children 
using novel and well established measures, and to study their contribution to 
intellectual functioning.
METHODS: Visual search and attention network efficiency were assessed in 108 
VP/VLBW children and 72 age matched term controls at 5.5 years corrected age. 
Visual search performance was investigated with a newly developed paradigm 
manipulating stimulus density and stimulus organization. Attention functioning 
was studied using the Attention Network Test (ANT). Intellectual functioning was 
measured by a short form of the Wechsler Preschool and Primary Scale of 
Intelligence. Data were analyzed using ANOVAs and multiple regression analyses.
RESULTS: Visual search was less efficient in VP/VLBW children as compared to 
term controls, as indicated by increased search time (0.31 SD, p = .04) and 
increased error rate (0.36 SD, p = .02). In addition, VP/VLBW children 
demonstrated poorer executive attention as indicated by lower accuracy for the 
executive attention measure of the ANT (0.61 SD, p < .001). No differences were 
found for the alerting (0.06 SD, p = .68) and orienting attention measures (0.13 
SD, p = .42). Visual search time and error rate, and executive attention, 
collectively, accounted for 14% explained variance in full scale IQ (R(2) = .14, 
p < .001).
DISCUSSION: VP/VLBW children were characterized by less efficient visual search 
ability and reduced executive attention. Visual attention dysfunctions 
contributed to intelligence, suggesting the opportunity to improve intellectual 
functioning by using interventions programs that may enhance attention 
capacities.

© 2013.

DOI: 10.1016/j.earlhumdev.2013.08.021
PMID: 24064408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1205. J Appl Meas. 2013;14(4):332-8.

Application of the Rasch model to measuring the performance of cognitive radios.

Wolfe EW(1), Dietrich CB, Vanhoy G.

Author information:
(1)3974 Roberts Ridge NE, Iowa City, IA 52240, USA, ed.wolfe@pearson.com.

Cognitive radios (CRs) are recent technological developments that rely on 
artificial intelligence to adapt a radio's performance to suit environmental 
demands, such as sharing radio frequencies with other radios. Measuring the 
performance of the cognitive engines (CEs) that underlie a CR's performance is a 
challenge for those developing CR technology. This simulation study illustrates 
how the Rasch model can be applied to the evaluation of CRs. We simulated the 
responses of 50 CEs to 35 performance tasks and applied the Random Coefficients 
Multidimensional Multinomial Logit Model (MRCMLM) to those data. Our results 
indicate that CEs based on different algorithms may exhibit differential 
performance across manipulated performance task parameters. We found that a 
multidimensional mixture model may provide the best fit to the simulated data 
and that the two algorithms simulated may respond to tasks that emphasize 
achieving high levels of data throughput coupled with lower emphasis on power 
conservation differently than they do to other combinations of performance task 
characteristics.

PMID: 24064575 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1206. Diabetologia. 2014 Jan;57(1):102-9. doi: 10.1007/s00125-013-3065-z. Epub 2013 
Sep 25.

Maternal diabetes in pregnancy and offspring cognitive ability: sibling study 
with 723,775 men from 579,857 families.

Fraser A(1), Almqvist C, Larsson H, Långström N, Lawlor DA.

Author information:
(1)MRC Integrative Epidemiology Unit at the University of Bristol, Oakfield 
House, Oakfield Grove, Bristol, BS8 2BN, UK, Abigail.Fraser@bristol.ac.uk.

AIMS/HYPOTHESIS: The aim of this study was to investigate the association 
between maternal diabetes in pregnancy and offspring cognitive ability and also 
to assess whether the association was due to intrauterine mechanisms or shared 
familial characteristics.
METHODS: We linked national registers and conducted a prospective cohort study 
of singleton Swedish-born men to explore associations between maternal pregnancy 
diabetes and educational achievement at age 16 years, the age of completing 
compulsory education in Sweden (n = 391,545 men from 337,174 families, 
graduating in 1988-1997 and n = 326,033 men from 282,079 families, graduating in 
1998-2009), and intelligence quotient (IQ) at the mandatory conscription 
examination at 18 years of age (n = 664,871 from 543,203 families).
RESULTS: Among non-siblings, maternal diabetes in pregnancy was associated with 
lower offspring cognitive ability even after adjustment for maternal age at 
birth, parity, education, early-pregnancy BMI, offspring birth year, gestational 
age and birthweight. For example, in non-siblings, the IQ of men whose mothers 
had diabetes in their pregnancy was on average 1.36 points lower (95% CI -2.12, 
-0.60) than men whose mothers did not have diabetes. In comparison, we found no 
such association within sibships (mean difference 1.70; 95% CI -1.80, 5.21).
CONCLUSIONS/INTERPRETATION: The association between maternal diabetes in 
pregnancy and offspring cognitive outcomes is likely explained by shared 
familial characteristics and not by an intrauterine mechanism.

DOI: 10.1007/s00125-013-3065-z
PMCID: PMC3857877
PMID: 24065154 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1207. Front Psychol. 2013 Sep 23;4:626. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2013.00626. eCollection 
2013.

Ode to positive constructive daydreaming.

McMillan RL(1), Kaufman SB, Singer JL.

Author information:
(1)Gifted Homeschoolers Forum Online, Chapel Hill NC, USA ; The Creativity Post, 
Chapel Hill NC, USA.

Nearly 60 years ago, Jerome L. Singer launched a groundbreaking research program 
into daydreaming (Singer, 1955, 1975, 2009) that presaged and laid the 
foundation for virtually every major strand of mind wandering research active 
today (Antrobus, 1999; Klinger, 1999, 2009). Here we review Singer's enormous 
contribution to the field, which includes insights, methodologies, and tools 
still in use today, and trace his enduring legacy as revealed in the recent 
proliferation of mind wandering studies. We then turn to the central theme in 
Singer's work, the adaptive nature of positive constructive daydreaming, which 
was a revolutionary idea when Singer began his work in the 1950s and remains 
underreported today. Last, we propose a new approach to answering the enduring 
question: Why does mind wandering persist and occupy so much of our time, as 
much as 50% of our waking time according to some estimates, if it is as costly 
as most studies suggest?

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2013.00626
PMCID: PMC3779797
PMID: 24065936


1208. Am J Clin Nutr. 2013 Dec;98(6):1575-82. doi: 10.3945/ajcn.112.051524. Epub 2013 
Sep 25.

Maternal fatty acids in pregnancy, FADS polymorphisms, and child intelligence 
quotient at 8 y of age.

Steer CD(1), Lattka E, Koletzko B, Golding J, Hibbeln JR.

Author information:
(1)School of Social and Community Medicine, University of Bristol, Bristol, 
United Kingdom (CDS and JG); the Research Unit for Molecular Epidemiology, 
Helmholtz Zentrum München, German Research Center for Environmental Health, 
Neuherberg, Germany (EL); the Department of Pediatrics, Dr von Hauner Children's 
Hospital, University of Munich Medical Center, München, Germany (BK); and the 
NIH, National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, Bethesda MD (JRH).

BACKGROUND: Brain tissue is selectively enriched with highly unsaturated fatty 
acids (FAs). Altering the maternal FA status in pregnancy may improve fetal 
neural development with lasting consequences for child development.
OBJECTIVE: We explored whether maternal FAs in erythrocytes, either measured 
directly or indirectly by maternal FADS genetic variants, are associated with 
child intelligence quotient (IQ).
DESIGN: Linear regression analyses, adjusted for 18 confounders, were used to 
investigate the associations in 2839 mother-child pairs from the 
population-based Avon Longitudinal Study of Parents and Children cohort.
RESULTS: Low levels of arachidonic acid (20:4n-6) were associated with lower 
performance IQ (-2.0 points; 95% CI: -3.5, -0.6 points; P = 0.007, increased R² 
= 0.27%), high levels of osbond acid (22:5n-6) were associated with verbal IQ 
(-1.8 points; 95% CI: -3.2, -0.4 points; P = 0.014, R² = 0.20%), and high levels 
of adrenic acid (22:4n-6) were associated with verbal IQ (-1.7 points; 95% 
CI:-3.1, -0.3 points; P = 0.016, R² = 0.19%). There was some evidence to support 
a negative association of low docosahexaenoic acid (DHA; 22:6n-3) with 
full-scale IQ (R² = 0.15%). Novel weak associations were also observed for low 
levels of osbond acid (R² ≤ 0.29%) and FADS variants with opposite effects for 
intron variants and variants in the promoter region such as rs3834458 (R² ≤ 
0.38%).
CONCLUSIONS: These results support the positive role of maternal arachidonic 
acid and DHA on fetal neural development, although the effects on child IQ by 8 
y of age were small (0.1 SD), with other factors contributing more 
substantially. The endogenous synthesis of these FAs by FADS genes, especially 
FADS2, may also be important. The replication of these results is recommended.

DOI: 10.3945/ajcn.112.051524
PMCID: PMC6404851
PMID: 24067669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1209. PLoS One. 2013 Sep 12;8(9):e74282. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0074282. 
eCollection 2013.

Environmental influences on mate preferences as assessed by a scenario 
manipulation experiment.

Marzoli D(1), Moretto F, Monti A, Tocci O, Roberts SC, Tommasi L.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Scienze Psicologiche, Umanistiche e del Territorio, 
University of Chieti, Chieti, Italia.

Many evolutionary psychology studies have addressed the topic of mate 
preferences, focusing particularly on gender and cultural differences. However, 
the extent to which situational and environmental variables might affect mate 
preferences has been comparatively neglected. We tested 288 participants in 
order to investigate the perceived relative importance of six traits of an ideal 
partner (wealth, dominance, intelligence, height, kindness, attractiveness) 
under four different hypothetical scenarios (status quo/nowadays, 
violence/post-nuclear, poverty/resource exhaustion, prosperity/global 
well-being). An equal number of participants (36 women, 36 men) was allotted to 
each scenario; each was asked to allocate 120 points across the six traits 
according to their perceived value. Overall, intelligence was the trait to which 
participants assigned most importance, followed by kindness and attractiveness, 
and then by wealth, dominance and height. Men appraised attractiveness as more 
valuable than women. Scenario strongly influenced the relative importance 
attributed to traits, the main finding being that wealth and dominance were more 
valued in the poverty and post-nuclear scenarios, respectively, compared to the 
other scenarios. Scenario manipulation generally had similar effects in both 
sexes, but women appeared particularly prone to trade off other traits for 
dominance in the violence scenario, and men particularly prone to trade off 
other traits for wealth in the poverty scenario. Our results are in line with 
other correlational studies of situational variables and mate preferences, and 
represent strong evidence of a causal relationship of environmental factors on 
specific mate preferences, corroborating the notion of an evolved plasticity to 
current ecological conditions. A control experiment seems to suggest that our 
scenarios can be considered as realistic descriptions of the intended ecological 
conditions.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0074282
PMCID: PMC3771886
PMID: 24069291 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


1210. Mol Genet Metab. 2013;110 Suppl:S44-8. doi: 10.1016/j.ymgme.2013.08.013. Epub 
2013 Aug 31.

Neurocognitive functioning in adults with phenylketonuria: results of a long 
term study.

Weglage J(1), Fromm J, van Teeffelen-Heithoff A, Möller HE, Koletzko B, 
Marquardt T, Rutsch F, Feldmann R.

Author information:
(1)University of Münster, Department of Pediatrics, Albert-Schweitzer-Campus 1, 
48149 Münster, Germany.

OBJECTIVES: A controlled long-term study was performed to assess the 
neurological and neuropsychological performance in adult patients with 
early-treated phenylketonuria (PKU).
METHODS: We investigated 57 patients with early-treated classical PKU aged 19 to 
41 years (mean age 31 years) and 46 matched healthy controls, matched for age 
and socioeconomic status. Patients and controls were assessed for their 
intelligence quotient (IQ), and attention and information-processing abilities. 
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain was performed in all patients. 
Neuropsychological assessments and MRI were repeated at a five-year-follow-up.
RESULTS: In the five-year interval IQ, information processing and attention of 
patients and controls remained constant. At both assessment times the IQ scores 
were significantly lower in patients compared to controls. Older adult patients 
(>32 years) showed poorer information processing and attention at both 
assessment times compared to young adult patients (<32 years) and controls. IQ, 
information processing and attention showed no correlation to imaging results 
but were significantly correlated to blood phenylalanine (Phe) levels in 
patients' childhood and adolescence, and Phe levels had been higher in the 
adolescent years of older adult patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Cognitive performance in adult patients with early-treated PKU does 
not seem to be subject to deterioration observable in a five-year interval. 
Neuropsychological assessment in adults with PKU revealed neurocognitive 
impairment particularly in older adult patients. This seems to refer to an early 
relaxation of diet that was recommended when the older patients were 
adolescents. Results indicate a benefit of dietary control during adolescence in 
PKU.

© 2013.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymgme.2013.08.013
PMID: 24071437 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1211. Neuroimage. 2014 Jan 1;84:810-9. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2013.09.038. Epub 
2013 Sep 23.

Cognitive ability changes and dynamics of cortical thickness development in 
healthy children and adolescents.

Burgaleta M(1), Johnson W, Waber DP, Colom R, Karama S.

Author information:
(1)Universidad Autónoma de Madrid, Spain; Universitat Pompeu Fabra, Spain.

Intelligence quotient (IQ) scores tend to remain stable across the lifespan. 
Nevertheless, in some healthy individuals, significant decreases or increases in 
IQ have been observed over time. It is unclear whether such changes reflect true 
functional change or merely measurement error. Here, we applied surface-based 
corticometry to investigate vertex-wise cortical surface area and thickness 
correlates of changes in Full Scale IQ (FSIQ), Performance IQ (PIQ) and Verbal 
IQ (VIQ) in a representative sample of children and adolescents (n=188, mean 
age=11.59years) assessed two years apart as part of the NIH Study of Normal 
Brain Development. No significant associations between changes in IQ measures 
and changes in cortical surface area were observed, whereas changes in FSIQ, 
PIQ, and VIQ were related to rates of cortical thinning, mainly in left frontal 
areas. Participants who showed reliable gains in FSIQ showed no significant 
changes in cortical thickness on average, whereas those who exhibited no 
significant FSIQ change showed moderate declines in cortical thickness. 
Importantly, individuals who showed large decreases in FSIQ displayed the 
steepest and most significant reductions in cortical thickness. Results support 
the view that there can be meaningful cognitive ability changes that impact IQ 
within relatively short developmental periods and show that such changes are 
associated with the dynamics of cortical thickness development.

© 2013.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2013.09.038
PMCID: PMC3888797
PMID: 24071525 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest: Authors declare that they 
have no conflicting financial interests.


1212. Sci Rep. 2013 Sep 27;3:2778. doi: 10.1038/srep02778.

Integrated all-optical logic discriminators based on plasmonic bandgap 
engineering.

Lu C(1), Hu X, Yang H, Gong Q.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory for Mesoscopic Physics & Department of Physics, Peking 
University, Beijing 100871, People's Republic of China.

Optical computing uses photons as information carriers, opening up the 
possibility for ultrahigh-speed and ultrawide-band information processing. 
Integrated all-optical logic devices are indispensible core components of 
optical computing systems. However, up to now, little experimental progress has 
been made in nanoscale all-optical logic discriminators, which have the function 
of discriminating and encoding incident light signals according to wavelength. 
Here, we report a strategy to realize a nanoscale all-optical logic 
discriminator based on plasmonic bandgap engineering in a planar plasmonic 
microstructure. Light signals falling within different operating wavelength 
ranges are differentiated and endowed with different logic state encodings. 
Compared with values previously reported, the operating bandwidth is enlarged by 
one order of magnitude. Also the SPP light source is integrated with the logic 
device while retaining its ultracompact size. This opens up a way to construct 
on-chip all-optical information processors and artificial intelligence systems.

DOI: 10.1038/srep02778
PMCID: PMC3784942
PMID: 24071647


1213. Ann Thorac Surg. 2014 Jan;97(1):48-55. doi: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2013.07.018. 
Epub 2013 Sep 25.

Effects on cognition of conventional and robotically assisted cardiac valve 
operation.

Bruce KM(1), Yelland GW(2), Almeida AA(3), Smith JA(4), Robinson SR(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Monash University, Melbourne, Australia.
(2)Blood-Brain Interactions Group, School of Psychology and Psychiatry, Monash 
University, Melbourne, Australia.
(3)Department of Surgery, Monash University, Melbourne, Australia; Department of 
Cardiothoracic Surgery, Monash University, Melbourne, Australia; Cardiothoracic 
Surgery Unit, Epworth Hospital, Melbourne, Australia.
(4)Department of Surgery, Monash University, Melbourne, Australia; Department of 
Cardiothoracic Surgery, Monash University, Melbourne, Australia.
(5)School of Health Sciences and Health Innovations Research Institute, RMIT 
University, Melbourne, Australia. Electronic address: 
stephen.robinson@rmit.edu.au.

BACKGROUND: The effect of valve surgical procedures on cognition was 
investigated in patients undergoing conventional or robotically assisted 
techniques. The confounding factors of surgical procedure, mood state, 
preexisting cognitive impairment, and repeated experience with cognitive tests 
were controlled for.
METHODS: Patients undergoing conventional valve procedures (n = 15), robotically 
assisted valve procedures (n = 15), and thoracic surgical procedures (n = 15), 
along with a nonsurgical control group (n = 15) were tested preoperatively, 1 
week after operation, and 8 weeks after operation by use of a battery of 
cognitive tests and a mood state assessment. Surgical group data were normalized 
against data from the nonsurgical control group before statistical analysis.
RESULTS: Patients undergoing conventional valve procedures performed worse than 
those undergoing robotically assisted valve procedures on every subtest before 
operation, and this disadvantage persisted after operation. Age and premorbid 
intelligence quotient were significantly associated with performance on several 
cognitive subtests. Anxiety, depression, and stress were not associated with 
impaired cognitive performance in the surgical groups after operation. A week 
after operation, patients undergoing conventional valve procedures performed 
worse on the cognitive tests that had a motor component, which may reflect 
discomfort caused by the sternotomy. Patients undergoing robotically assisted 
valve procedures were significantly less impaired on information processing 
tasks 1 week after operation when compared with those undergoing conventional 
valve procedures. The majority of patients who were impaired 1 week after 
operation recovered to preoperation levels within 8 weeks.
CONCLUSIONS: The robotically assisted valve surgical procedure results in more 
rapid recovery of performance on cognitive tests. However, regardless of the 
type of surgical intervention, the prospect of a recovery of cognitive 
performance to preoperative levels is high.

Copyright © 2014 The Society of Thoracic Surgeons. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2013.07.018
PMID: 24075495 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1214. Prog Neuropsychopharmacol Biol Psychiatry. 2014 Jan 3;48:149-54. doi: 
10.1016/j.pnpbp.2013.09.009. Epub 2013 Sep 25.

No sex differences in neuropsychological performance in first episode psychosis 
patients.

Ayesa-Arriola R(1), Rodriguez-Sanchez JM, Gomez-Ruiz E, Roiz-Santiáñez R, Reeves 
LL, Crespo-Facorro B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Marqués de Valdecilla University Hospital, IFIMAV, 
School of Medicine, University of Cantabria, Santander, Spain; CIBERSAM, Centro 
Investigación Biomédica en Red Salud Mental, Madrid, Spain. Electronic address: 
rayesa@humv.es.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to verify whether male patients with 
psychosis have greater neurocognitive impairment than female patients at illness 
onset.
METHOD: Participants with a first episode of psychosis (74 women/86 men) and 
healthy controls (62 women/97 men) were assessed with an extensive 
neuropsychological test battery.
RESULTS: Women in the clinical group were older at illness onset and had 
achieved higher formal education than men. This trend was the same for the 
control group. The patient group presented with lower premorbid IQ compared to 
healthy controls, and performed below for most neuropsychological tests. Women 
scored higher than men on a test of verbal memory, whereas men scored higher 
than women on a test of reaction time, visual memory, and a planning task. There 
were no group-by-sex interactions for any of the neuropsychological tests.
CONCLUSION: The present study shows that at the onset of psychosis there are no 
differences between males and females in neuropsychological performance. The 
differential pattern of cognitive performance observed is similar to that in 
healthy males and females. Furthermore, females with a late onset of psychosis 
may represent a subgroup with specific visuospatial and problem solving 
impairments.

© 2013.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pnpbp.2013.09.009
PMID: 24075821 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1215. J Res Health Sci. 2013 Sep 17;13(2):208-13.

Cognitive processes and functions in patients with type 2 diabetes in comparison 
to pre-diabetic patients.

Nazaribadie M(1), Asgari K, Amini M, Ahmadpanah M, Nazaribadie M, Jamlipaghale 
S.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Psychology Ward, Farshchian Hospital, Hamadan University of Medical 
Sciences, Hamadan, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Type 2 diabetes is an important risk factor for cognitive decline in 
diabetic patients. The main goal of this study was the assessment of memory, 
attention and visuospatial ability dysfunctions in patients with type 2 diabetes 
in comparison to pre-diabetic patients and normal subjects in Endocrine and 
Metabolism Center of Isfahan City from April 2011 to July 2011.
METHODS: The sample comprised of 32 patients with type 2 diabetes, 28 
pre-diabetic patients and 30 healthy individuals. Memory, attention and 
visuospatial ability were assessed by Rey Complex Figure Test (RCFT), Paced 
Auditory Serial Addition Test (PASAT) and sub tests of Wechsler Adult 
Intelligence Scale-revised (WAIS-R).
RESULTS: The pair wise comparisons of cognitive functions among three groups, 
suggesting a significant difference between diabetic and normal groups in 
PASAT3". PASAT2", RCFT (recall trial) and Symbol coding (P=0.003, P=0.009, 
P=0.010, and P<0.001, respectively). But there was no difference in copy trial 
of RCFT and block design between two groups (P=0.170, P=0.490). There was 
significant difference between pre-diabetic group and normal group in recall 
trial of RCFT (P=0.020), as well as significant difference between diabetes type 
2 and pre-diabetic group in symbol coding (P=0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: There were significant differences in cognitive functions in 
patient with type2 diabetes, pre-diabetic patients and normal individuals. Thus 
monitoring neuropsychological status besides controlling levels of blood sugar 
in these patients is important.

PMID: 24077481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1216. Nihon Eiseigaku Zasshi. 2013;68(3):189-96. doi: 10.1265/jjh.68.189.

[Normative study of the Boston naming test in 7-year-old Japanese children].

[Article in Japanese]

Tatsuta N(1), Nakai K, Suzuki K, Kurokawa N, Hosokawa T, Satoh H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Development and Environmental Medicine, Tohoku University 
Graduate School of Medicine.

OBJECTIVES: The Boston Naming Test (BNT) has been used to assess the language 
development of children in many epidemiology studies, and its usefulness is 
confirmed. The BNT consists of 60 black and white line drawings of objects and 
animals. There are no normative data available for this test for Japanese 
children. The purpose of this study was to collect normative information in 
Japan and to examine the correlation between the score of the BNT and 
Intelligence Quotient (IQ) of the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children third 
edition (WISC-III).
METHODS: The BNT was translated into Japanese and administered in children 
registered to the birth cohort of the Tohoku Study of Child Development at the 
age of 84 months. The participants for analysis in this study were 449 children 
(237 boys, 212 girls).
RESULTS: There were four items with percentage scores below 1%; Igloo, Knocker, 
Muzzle, and Yoke. Many Japanese children could answer 'abacus' and 'compass', 
which are difficult for US children. Although the score of the BNT correlated 
with IQ of the WISC-III (p<0.001), as compared with the previous studies, the 
correlation coefficient was low.
CONCLUSIONS: The BNT is quick and easy to use and valuable for researchers in 
evaluating language ability in children. Since the BNT was developed in the 
United States, the cultural values of that country are reflected in the BNT 
score. This implies that the BNT should be modified to fit Japanese population.

DOI: 10.1265/jjh.68.189
PMID: 24077491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1217. Cogn Behav Neurol. 2013 Sep;26(3):155-60. doi: 10.1097/WNN.0000000000000009.

Vitamin D and long-term memory in multiple sclerosis.

Koven NS(1), Cadden MH, Murali S, Ross MK.

Author information:
(1)*Program of Neuroscience, Bates College, Lewiston, ME †Central Maine Medical 
Center Neurology, Auburn, ME.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Memory disturbance is a frequent cognitive complaint 
by patients with multiple sclerosis (MS). Recent dementia research suggests a 
beneficial role for vitamin D in long-term memory functioning. While data 
suggest ameliorative effects of vitamin D for the physical impairments of MS, it 
is unknown whether vitamin D can benefit the cognitive sequelae. We examined the 
relationship between serum levels of vitamin D and performance on verbal and 
nonverbal tests of long-term memory in patients with MS.
METHODS: A sample of 35 adults with relapsing-remitting MS completed cognitive 
testing and a vitamin D serum (25[OH]D) assay. Memory assessment used clinically 
established neuropsychological tests with multiple testing formats to determine 
whether vitamin D level was associated with memory during conditions of varying 
retrieval demands. Intellectual functioning and mood were also assessed to 
control for potential confounds.
RESULTS: Vitamin D level was positively associated with performance on immediate 
and delayed recall trials of the Rey Complex Figure Test, effects that held 
after controlling for intelligence and disease duration. Vitamin D level was not 
associated with mood, intelligence, or verbal memory performance on the 
California Verbal Learning Test, Second Edition.
CONCLUSIONS: Higher vitamin D level was associated with better nonverbal 
long-term memory performance in MS, particularly in conditions when no aid was 
given to help retrieval. These results supplement the literature on the 
neuroprotective effects of vitamin D and suggest that vitamin D is a worthwhile 
adjunct treatment for MS.

DOI: 10.1097/WNN.0000000000000009
PMID: 24077575 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1218. Zhonghua Yi Xue Yi Chuan Xue Za Zhi. 2013 Oct;30(5):589-93. doi: 
10.3760/cma.j.issn.1003-9406.2013.05.018.

[Diagnosis and treatment of isolated methylmalonic acidemia].

[Article in Chinese]

Han LS(1), Wu SN, Ye J, Qiu WJ, Zhang HW, Gao XL, Wang Y, Li XY, Xu H, Gu XF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Endocrinology, Genetic and Metabolic Diseases, 
Shanghai Institute of Pediatric Research, Xinhua Hospital, Shanghai Jiaotong 
University School of Medicine, Shanghai 210092, P. R. China. Email: 
gu_xuefan@163.com.

OBJECTIVE: To explore the clinical feature, therapeutic effect and prognosis of 
isolated methylmalonic acidemia.
METHODS: The clinical characteristics, laboratory findings, treatment and 
outcome of 40 patients were retrospectively analyzed. The main treatment was a 
low-protein diet supplemented with L-carnitine and special milk free of leucine, 
valine, threonine and methionine. Vitamin B12 was also given to cobalamin 
responders. The patients were followed up every 1-3 months.
RESULTS: Mutations in the MUT gene were identified in 30 of 33 patients who had 
accepted DNA testing. Thirty cases were treated and followed up regularly for 
from 1 month to 8 years. Eight cases had died, 8 had developed normal 
intelligence, among whom 4 from newborn screening were asymptomatic. Psychomotor 
developmental delay and mental retardation were present in 14 cases. The 
propionylcarnitine level, ratio of propionylcarnitine/acetylcarnitine in blood, 
methylmalonic acid and methylcitric acid levels in urine have decreased 
significantly, with the median values reduced respectively from 24.15 
(7.92-81.02) μmol/L, 1.08 (0.38-6.01), 705.34 (113.79-3078.60) and 7.71 
(0.52-128.21) to 10.50 (3.00-30.92) μmol/L, 0.63 (0.25-2.89), 166.23 
(22.40-3322.21) and 3.96 (0.94-119.13) (P < 0.05).
CONCLUSION: The prognosis of isolated methylmalonic acidemia may be predicted 
with the enzymatic subgroup, age at onset and cobalamin responsiveness. Outcome 
is unfavorable in neonatal patients and those who were non-responsive to 
cobalamin.

DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.issn.1003-9406.2013.05.018
PMID: 24078577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1219. Iran J Psychiatry. 2013 Oct;8(4):165-7.

The relationship of general health, hardiness and spiritual intelligence 
relationship in Iranian nurses.

Akbarizadeh F(1), Jahanpour F(2), Hajivandi A(3).

Author information:
(1)Mental Health Unit, Bushehr University of Medical Science, Bushehr, Iran.
(2)School of Nursing and Midwifery, Bushehr University of Medical Sciences, 
Bushehr, Iran.
(3)Health Faculty, statistical department, Bushehr University of Medical 
Sciences, Bushehr, Iran.

OBJECTIVE: Nursing is one of the stressful jobs that affect nurse's well-being. 
The aim of this study was to assess the relationship between spiritual 
intelligence, hardiness and well-being among Iranian nurses.
METHODS: Samples of this cross- sectional study selected by Randomized 
stratified sampling, 125 nurses who have been working in different wards of 
Bushehr university hospitals. Data were collected using spiritual intelligence, 
hardiness, well-being and demographic characteristics questionnaires. 
Correlation, t-test, ANOVA, Tukey and regression analysis were applied.
RESULTS: The results revealed a significant relationship between spiritual 
intelligence and hardiness, spiritual intelligence and well-being, Hardiness and 
well-being. It also showed that among the demographic characteristics (age, 
gender, working ward, marital status, job experiences, and education) working 
ward significantly correlated with spiritual intelligence.
CONCLUSION: Improvement of spiritual intelligence and reinforcement of hardiness 
could help increase the well-being of nurses.

PMCID: PMC4281650
PMID: 25628709


1220. Bull Acad Natl Med. 2013 Oct;197(7):1291-301.

[Cybersurgery: human-machine integration for surgery of the future].

[Article in French]

Marescaux J, Diana M.

The concept whereby human-machine collaboration can enhance surgical performance 
is briefly reviewed in this editorial. Implementation of computer and robotic 
technologies in the operating room may enhance the safety, efficacy and 
precision of the surgical procedure and facilitate minimally invasive 
approaches. The coming cybernetic revolution in surgery is no longer science 
fiction: a surgical robot equipped with image recognition, specific algorithms 
and artificial intelligence has the potential replace surgeons and to perform 
complex procedures autonomously.

PMID: 25796718 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1221. Iran J Public Health. 2013 Oct;42(10):1174-80.

The Effectiveness of Emotional Intelligence Training on the Mental Health of 
Male Deaf Students.

Pourmohamadreza-Tajrishi M(1), Ashori M(2), Jalilabkenar SS(3).

Author information:
(1)1. Pediatric Neurorehabilitation Research Center, Dept. of Psychology and 
Exceptional Children Education, University of Social Welfare and Rehabilitation 
Sciences , Tehran, Iran.
(2)2. Dept. of Psychology and Exceptional Children Education, Faculty of 
Psychology and Educational Sciences, University of Tehran , Tehran, Iran.
(3)3. Dept. of Psychology and Exceptional Children Education, University of 
Social Welfare and Rehabilitation Sciences , Tehran, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Deafness is a common neural-sensory impairment which leads to lower 
life quality, withdrawal, social activities reduction, and rejection feeling. 
So, it is important to plan suitable training programs for mental health 
promotion of deaf children. Emotional intelligence training is one of these 
programs. The present study was aimed to determine the effectiveness of 
emotional intelligence training on the mental health of deaf students.
METHODS: In this semi-experimental study with pretest and posttest design, 
General Health Questionnaire (GHQ) was completed in 40 randomly selected boy 
deaf students with mean age of (12.48) years old before and after the 
intervention. The aim of the questionnaire was obtaining information of somatic 
symptoms, anxiety, social dysfunction, and depression as well as general health. 
The students were assigned in experimental and control group randomly and in 
equal. Experimental group participated in 12 sessions (each session lasts for 50 
minutes; twice a week) and were trained by emotional intelligence program, but 
control group did not. Multivariate analysis of covariance (MANCOVA) was used 
for analyzing the data.
RESULTS: There was a significant difference (P<0.001) between experimental and 
control group according to somatic symptoms, anxiety, social dysfunction, 
depression and general health as a whole after participation in intervention 
sessions.
CONCLUSION: There was a significant decrease in somatic symptoms, anxiety, 
social dysfunction, depression and increase in general health of experimental 
group. Our findings showed that emotional intelligence training program led to 
promote of general health of boy deaf students.

PMCID: PMC4436547
PMID: 26060627


1222. Appl Neuropsychol Child. 2014;3(2):152-60. doi: 10.1080/21622965.2012.753570. 
Epub 2013 Sep 30.

WISC-IV unusual digit span performance in a sample of adolescents with learning 
disabilities.

Harrison AG(1), Armstrong I.

Author information:
(1)a Regional Assessment and Resource Centre , Queen's University , Kingston , 
Ontario , Canada.

Accurate identification of symptom magnification is essential when determining 
whether or not obtained test data are valid or interpretable. Apart from using 
freestanding symptom validity tests, many researchers encourage use of embedded 
measures of test-related motivation, including ones derived from the Digit Span 
subtest of the Wechsler scales. Such embedded measures are based on 
identification of performance patterns that are implausible if the test taker is 
investing full effort; however, it is unclear whether or not persons with 
preexisting cognitive difficulties such as specific learning disabilities (LD) 
might be falsely accused of poor test motivation due to actual but impaired 
working-memory skills. This study examined the specificity of such measures by 
reviewing performance of 86 adolescents with LDs on three measures embedded in 
the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children-Fourth Edition-namely, Digit Span 
(DS), Vocabulary-DS differences, and Reliable Digit Span (RDS) scores. Results 
indicate that while RDS is likely insensitive to impairments associated with LD, 
other DS measures may have an unacceptably high false-positive rate, especially 
if Canadian normative data are used to calculate scores.

DOI: 10.1080/21622965.2012.753570
PMID: 24079535 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1223. Psychol Assess. 2014 Mar;26(1):55-68. doi: 10.1037/a0034475. Epub 2013 Sep 30.

Factorial validity and measurement invariance across intelligence levels and 
gender of the overexcitabilities questionnaire-II (OEQ-II).

Van den Broeck W(1), Hofmans J(2), Cooremans S(1), Staels E(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical and Lifespan Psychology, Vrije Universiteit Brussel.
(2)Department of Experimental and Applied Psychology, Vrije Universiteit 
Brussel.

The concept of overexcitability, derived from Dabrowski's theory of personality 
development, offers a promising approach for the study of the developmental 
dynamics of giftedness. The present study aimed at (a) examining the factorial 
structure of the Overexcitabilities Questionnaire-II scores (OEQ-II) and (b) 
testing measurement invariance of these scores across intelligence and gender. A 
sample of 641 Dutch-speaking adolescents from 11 to 15 years old, 363 girls and 
278 boys, participated in this study. Results showed that a model without 
cross-loadings did not fit the data well (using confirmatory factor analysis), 
whereas a factor model in which all cross-loadings were included yielded fit 
statistics that were in support of the factorial structure of the OEQ-II scores 
(using exploratory structural equation modeling). Furthermore, our findings 
supported the assumption of (partial) strict measurement invariance of the 
OEQ-II scores across intelligence levels and across gender. Such levels of 
measurement invariance allow valid comparisons between factor means and factor 
relationships across groups. In particular, the gifted group scored 
significantly higher on intellectual and sensual overexcitability (OE) than the 
nongifted group, girls scored higher on emotional and sensual OE than boys, and 
boys scored higher on intellectual and psychomotor OE than girls.

2014 APA

DOI: 10.1037/a0034475
PMID: 24079958 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1224. Comput Methods Programs Biomed. 2013 Dec;112(3):367-97. doi: 
10.1016/j.cmpb.2013.07.025. Epub 2013 Aug 19.

A new measure for gene expression biclustering based on non-parametric 
correlation.

Flores JL(1), Inza I, Larrañaga P, Calvo B.

Author information:
(1)Intelligent Systems Group, Department of Computer Sciences and Artificial 
Intelligence, University of the Basque Country, P.O. Box 649, 20080 Donostia - 
San Sebastian, Spain. Electronic address: joseluis.flores@ehu.es.

BACKGROUND: One of the emerging techniques for performing the analysis of the 
DNA microarray data known as biclustering is the search of subsets of genes and 
conditions which are coherently expressed. These subgroups provide clues about 
the main biological processes. Until now, different approaches to this problem 
have been proposed. Most of them use the mean squared residue as quality measure 
but relevant and interesting patterns can not be detected such as shifting, or 
scaling patterns. Furthermore, recent papers show that there exist new coherence 
patterns involved in different kinds of cancer and tumors such as inverse 
relationships between genes which can not be captured.
RESULTS: The proposed measure is called Spearman's biclustering measure (SBM) 
which performs an estimation of the quality of a bicluster based on the 
non-linear correlation among genes and conditions simultaneously. The search of 
biclusters is performed by using a evolutionary technique called estimation of 
distribution algorithms which uses the SBM measure as fitness function. This 
approach has been examined from different points of view by using artificial and 
real microarrays. The assessment process has involved the use of quality 
indexes, a set of bicluster patterns of reference including new patterns and a 
set of statistical tests. It has been also examined the performance using real 
microarrays and comparing to different algorithmic approaches such as Bimax, CC, 
OPSM, Plaid and xMotifs.
CONCLUSIONS: SBM shows several advantages such as the ability to recognize more 
complex coherence patterns such as shifting, scaling and inversion and the 
capability to selectively marginalize genes and conditions depending on the 
statistical significance.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cmpb.2013.07.025
PMID: 24079964 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1225. Hear Res. 2014 Feb;308:84-97. doi: 10.1016/j.heares.2013.09.012. Epub 2013 Sep 
27.

Examining neural plasticity and cognitive benefit through the unique lens of 
musical training.

Moreno S(1), Bidelman GM(2).

Author information:
(1)Rotman Research Institute, Baycrest Centre for Geriatric Care, Toronto, ON, 
Canada; University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada. Electronic address: 
smoreno@research.baycrest.org.
(2)Institute for Intelligent Systems, University of Memphis, Memphis, TN, USA; 
School of Communication Sciences & Disorders, University of Memphis, Memphis, 
TN, USA.

Training programs aimed to alleviate or improve auditory-cognitive abilities 
have either experienced mixed success or remain to be fully validated. The 
limited benefits of such regimens are largely attributable to our weak 
understanding of (i) how (and which) interventions provide the most robust and 
long lasting improvements to cognitive and perceptual abilities and (ii) how the 
neural mechanisms which underlie such abilities are positively modified by 
certain activities and experience. Recent studies indicate that music training 
provides robust, long-lasting biological benefits to auditory function. 
Importantly, the behavioral advantages conferred by musical experience extend 
beyond simple enhancements to perceptual abilities and even impact non-auditory 
functions necessary for higher-order aspects of cognition (e.g., working memory, 
intelligence). Collectively, preliminary findings indicate that alternative 
forms of arts engagement (e.g., visual arts training) may not yield such 
widespread enhancements, suggesting that music expertise uniquely taps and 
refines a hierarchy of brain networks subserving a variety of auditory as well 
as domain-general cognitive mechanisms. We infer that transfer from specific 
music experience to broad cognitive benefit might be mediated by the degree to 
which a listener's musical training tunes lower- (e.g., perceptual) and 
higher-order executive functions, and the coordination between these processes. 
Ultimately, understanding the broad impact of music on the brain will not only 
provide a more holistic picture of auditory processing and plasticity, but may 
help inform and tailor remediation and training programs designed to improve 
perceptual and cognitive benefits in human listeners.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.heares.2013.09.012
PMID: 24079993 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1226. Exp Clin Psychopharmacol. 2013 Dec;21(6):507-15. doi: 10.1037/a0034002. Epub 
2013 Sep 30.

Electrophysiological evidence of atypical processing underlying mental set 
shifting in ecstasy polydrug and polydrug users.

Roberts CA(1), Fairclough SH(1), McGlone FP(1), Fisk JE(2), Montgomery C(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Natural Sciences and Psychology, Liverpool John Moores University.
(2)School of Psychology, University of Central Lancashire.

Executive functioning deficits are reported in ecstasy users. However research 
into mental set switching has been equivocal, with behavioral studies suggesting 
the function is preserved. The current study sought to address the issue of 
switching deficits in ecstasy users by combining behavioral performance with 
electrophysiological correlates (electroencephalography; EEG). Twenty ecstasy 
polydrug users, 20 nonecstasy polydrug users, and 20 drug naive controls were 
recruited. Participants completed questionnaires about their drug use, sleep 
quality, fluid intelligence, and current mood state. Each participant completed 
a mental set switching task (the number-letter task) while EEG measures were 
recorded. Analysis of variance (ANOVA) revealed no between-group differences on 
performance of the task; however a regression suggested that ecstasy use was a 
significant predictor for performance, after controlling for cannabis use. Mixed 
ANOVA revealed a significant effect of group on the P3, with significant 
differences between both drug groups and naives. There was also an interaction 
between electrode and group on the P2 component, with ecstasy users differing 
from both other groups. On the P3 component the results suggest a reduction in 
positivity at parieto-occipital electrodes for drug users compared to controls. 
Furthermore a significant increase in negativity in ecstasy users compared to 
control groups could be observed in several occipito-parietal electrodes at an 
N2 component as well as observable atypicalities in early processing (P2) 
displayed by ecstasy users and polydrug controls. The present study provides 
evidence of atypical processing of attentional shifting in ecstasy and polydrug 
users. Deficits in this executive function could reflect cognitive inflexibility 
and paucity of rapid behavioral adjustment, which may be problematic in real 
world situations.

DOI: 10.1037/a0034002
PMID: 24080019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1227. Nat Rev Urol. 2013 Nov;10(11):667-74. doi: 10.1038/nrurol.2013.213. Epub 2013 
Oct 1.

Urinary incontinence in children with special needs.

von Gontard A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Saarland University Hospital, 
66421 Homburg, Germany. alexander.von.gontard@uks.eu.

Nocturnal enuresis, daytime urinary incontinence, lower urinary tract symptoms 
and faecal incontinence are more common in children with special needs than in 
typically developing children. Children with intellectual disability, which can 
be attributed to a range of causes, are particularly affected. Indeed, the 
epidemiological and clinical studies conducted to date show clear associations 
that children with special needs have higher rates of urinary (and faecal) 
incontinence than children without development, physical or cognitive 
impairments. For example, low intelligence quotient (IQ)-associated physical 
disability and conditions such as Fragile X and Rett syndromes increase the risk 
for incontinence, which can persist into adulthood if left untreated. Although 
the association of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and incontinence has 
been shown in many studies, further research is needed on other specific 
disorders, such as autism. As many children are not receiving adequate care, 
specific multimodal treatments based on rigorous assessment of the incontinence, 
underlying condition and associated comorbid disorders should be actively 
offered.

DOI: 10.1038/nrurol.2013.213
PMID: 24080904 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1228. Springerplus. 2013 Sep 14;2:462. doi: 10.1186/2193-1801-2-462. eCollection 2013.

Comparison result of inversion of gravity data of a fault by particle swarm 
optimization and Levenberg-Marquardt methods.

Toushmalani R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Computer, Faculty of engineering, Kangavar Branch, Islamic Azad 
University, Kangavar, Iran.

The purpose of this study was to compare the performance of two methods for 
gravity inversion of a fault. First method [Particle swarm optimization (PSO)] 
is a heuristic global optimization method and also an optimization algorithm, 
which is based on swarm intelligence. It comes from the research on the bird and 
fish flock movement behavior. Second method [The Levenberg-Marquardt algorithm 
(LM)] is an approximation to the Newton method used also for training ANNs. In 
this paper first we discussed the gravity field of a fault, then describes the 
algorithms of PSO and LM And presents application of Levenberg-Marquardt 
algorithm, and a particle swarm algorithm in solving inverse problem of a fault. 
Most importantly the parameters for the algorithms are given for the individual 
tests. Inverse solution reveals that fault model parameters are agree quite well 
with the known results. A more agreement has been found between the predicted 
model anomaly and the observed gravity anomaly in PSO method rather than LM 
method.

DOI: 10.1186/2193-1801-2-462
PMCID: PMC3786064
PMID: 24083109


1229. J Educ Health Promot. 2013 Jul 31;2:40. doi: 10.4103/2277-9531.115836. 
eCollection 2013.

The relationship between emotional intelligence and academic stress in students 
of medical sciences.

Miri MR(1), Kermani T, Khoshbakht H, Moodi M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, Family Health Research Center, Birjand 
University of Medical Sciences, Birjand, Iran.

BACKGROUND AND AIM: Emotional intelligence (EI) theory provides a view about 
predicting effective factors in people's lives whether in education or 
profession. According to earlier studies, people who have higher emotional 
skills are more successful in many of life aspects :e.g., reaction to stress and 
controlling stress situations. Since students are the future of society, this 
study was carried out to evaluate the relationship between EI and education 
stress in the students of Birjand University of Medical Sciences (BUMS).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In this cross-sectional study, 260 students were selected 
by proportional sampling in four faculties: Medicine, Nursing and Midwifery, 
Paramedical Sciences, and Health. Data were collected using two questionnaires: 
The standardized EI Shering's (33 questions, five domains) and the Student-Life 
Stress Inventory (57 questions, nine domains). The obtained data were analyzed 
by independent t-test, Pearson's correlation coefficient, and linear regression 
at the significant level of α = 0.05.
RESULTS: Totally, 65.8% of participants were females and 31.1% were males. The 
educational level of the participants included Associate's degree (44.6%) 
Bachelor's degree in science (31.2%), and medical science (23.1%). There was no 
significant correlation between EI scores and educational stress in students. 
But there was a significant relationship between EI with sex (P = 0.02) and mean 
of EI scores with three domains of academic stress: Personal favorites (P = 
0.004), reaction to stressors (P = 0.002), and performance in stressful 
situations (P = 0.001).
CONCLUSION: Although EI growth in different individuals can promote their 
success, it cannot decrease academic stress by itself which was particularly 
significant in females. Therefore, other causes of stress such as individual 
differences must be taken into consideration.

DOI: 10.4103/2277-9531.115836
PMCID: PMC3778639
PMID: 24083290

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None declared.


1230. Appl Neuropsychol Child. 2014;3(4):275-83. doi: 10.1080/21622965.2012.757700. 
Epub 2013 Oct 1.

Intellectual ability as a predictor of performance on the Wisconsin Card-Sorting 
Test.

Tanabe MK(1), Whitaker AM, O'Callaghan ET, Murray J, Houskamp BM.

Author information:
(1)a California School of Professional Psychology , Alliant International 
University-Los Angeles , Alhambra , California.

The purpose of this study was to explore the relationship between intelligence 
and executive functioning in youth. More specifically, the authors hypothesized 
that there would be a positive correlation between scores on the Wechsler 
Intelligence Scale for Children-Fourth Edition General Ability Index (GAI) and 
understanding of sorting principles as measured by percent conceptual-level 
responses on the Wisconsin Card-Sorting Test (WCST). One hundred eighty-five 
children and adolescents completed neuropsychological evaluations. Results 
revealed a curvilinear regression with bright youth (GAI = 115-129) and gifted 
youth (GAI ≥130) performing better than average youth (GAI = 90-114) and no 
difference in performance between bright and gifted youth. Additionally, 
post-hoc analyses revealed intelligence in children 5 to 8 years of age and 12 
to 16 years of age did not significantly predict percent conceptual-level 
responses, while intelligence predicted more than 19% of the variance in percent 
conceptual-level responses for children ages 9 to 11 years old. Findings 
revealed new evidence about the role of intellectual ability in executive 
functioning among different age ranges and have important implications for 
psychologists, caregivers, educators, and other professionals working with this 
population.

DOI: 10.1080/21622965.2012.757700
PMID: 24083565 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1231. Psychol Sci. 2013 Dec;24(12):2361-8. doi: 10.1177/0956797613486487. Epub 2013 
Oct 1.

The stability of intelligence from age 11 to age 90 years: the Lothian birth 
cohort of 1921.

Deary IJ(1), Pattie A, Starr JM.

Author information:
(1)1Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology.

As a foundation for studies of human cognitive aging, it is important to know 
the stability of individual differences in cognitive ability across the life 
course. Few studies of cognitive ability have tested the same individuals in 
youth and old age. We examined the stability and concurrent and predictive 
validity of individual differences in the same intelligence test administered to 
the same individuals (the Lothian Birth Cohort of 1921, N = 106) at ages 11 and 
90 years. The correlation of Moray House Test scores between age 11 and age 90 
was .54 (.67 when corrected for range restriction). This is a valuable 
foundation for estimating the extent to which cognitive-ability differences in 
very old age are accounted for by the lifelong stable trait and by the causes of 
cognitive change across the life course. Moray House Test scores showed strong 
concurrent and predictive validity with "gold standard" cognitive tests at ages 
11 and 90.

DOI: 10.1177/0956797613486487
PMID: 24084038 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1232. J Altern Complement Med. 2014 Jan;20(1):19-23. doi: 10.1089/acm.2013.0207. Epub 
2013 Oct 2.

Therapeutic horse riding improves cognition, mood arousal, and ambulation in 
children with dyspraxia.

Hession CE(1), Eastwood B, Watterson D, Lehane CM, Oxley N, Murphy BA.

Author information:
(1)1 Limerick School of Art and Design, Limerick Institute of Technology , Co. 
Limerick, Ireland .

Comment in
    J Altern Complement Med. 2014 Jan;20(1):1-2.

OBJECTIVES: The objectives of this study were to evaluate the effects of the 
physical motion of a horse (riding therapy) combined with the audiovisual 
perception of this motion on a group of children with dyspraxia in terms of 
cognition, mood arousal, and gait variability.
DESIGN: The study design was a pretest/post-test.
SETTINGS/LOCATION: The study was conducted at the Fettercairn Youth Horse 
Project, Fettercairn, Tallaght, Dublin.
SUBJECTS: Forty (40) children ranging from 6 to 15 years of age with a primary 
diagnosis of dyspraxia were the study subjects.
INTERVENTIONS: Children meeting inclusion criteria participated in six 30-minute 
horse-riding sessions and two 30-minute audiovisual screening sessions.
OUTCOME MEASURES: A Standard Progressive Matrices test (also known as the Ravens 
test) was used to measure aspects of general intelligence. A Childhood 
Depression Inventory (CDI) questionnaire was used to assess cognitive, 
affective, and behavioral signs of depression. A GAITRite Pressure Mapping 
System analyzed foot function and gait variability by measuring single and 
double support, cycle time, cadence, toe in/out, and stride length.
RESULTS: Significant improvements were evident on the Ravens test and the CDI by 
the end of the study period. The amount of both single and double support 
required while completing the walking task also was significantly reduced. 
Improvements were visible on toe in/out values, cycle time, and cadence. Changes 
in stride length did not reach statistical significance.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings support the theory that riding therapy and/or the 
perception of beat-based rhythms, as experienced by the rider on the horse, 
stimulates cognition, mood, and gait parameters. In addition, the data also 
pointed to the potential value of an audiovisual approach to equine therapy.

DOI: 10.1089/acm.2013.0207
PMID: 24088010 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1233. Pediatr Hematol Oncol. 2013 Nov;30(8):733-41. doi: 10.3109/08880018.2013.830348. 
Epub 2013 Oct 2.

Academic performance and intelligence scores of primary school-aged children 
with sickle cell anemia.

Ezenwosu O(1), Emodi I, Ikefuna A, Chukwu B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics, University of Nigeria Teaching Hospital , Enugu , 
Nigeria.

Children with sickle cell anemia (SCA) are faced with complications which may 
interfere with their educational activities including academic performance. 
Reports on their academic performance are mainly from developed countries and 
the results have been inconsistent. This study aimed to determine the academic 
performance of primary school-aged children with SCA in Nigeria and compare 
findings with a group of controls. Ninety children with SCA aged 5-11 years were 
consecutively recruited at the SCA clinic of UNTH Enugu and their age- and 
sex-matched normal classmates were enrolled as controls. Academic performance of 
the children with SCA was studied using the overall scores achieved in the three 
term examinations in the preceding academic year (2009/2010), while their 
intelligence quotient (IQ) was determined using the Draw-A-Person Test. The 
findings were compared with that of 90 controls. The mean overall academic score 
of the children with SCA of 62.71 ± 19.43% was similar to 67.47 ± 16.42% in the 
controls (P = .077). However, a significantly higher number of children with SCA 
(32.2% vs. 16.7% of the controls; P = .015) scored below 50%, thus, had poor 
performance. The mean IQ of the subjects (91.41 ±16.61%) was similar to that of 
the controls (95.56 ±17.31%, P = .103). However, more SCA patients had lower IQ 
scores than controls though not statistically significant (P = 0.083). The 
overall academic performance of children with SCA, therefore, compares favorably 
with that of controls although there is a higher prevalence of poor performance 
among them.

DOI: 10.3109/08880018.2013.830348
PMID: 24088069 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1234. Pediatr Hematol Oncol. 2014 Mar;31(2):181-93. doi: 10.3109/08880018.2013.803212. 
Epub 2013 Oct 2.

Assessment of neuropsychological late effects in survivors of childhood 
leukemia.

Kalafatçılar Aİ(1), Tüfekçi Ö, Ören H, Hız S, Güleryüz H, Akay A, Orçim E, Olgun 
Y, İrken G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Dokuz Eylül University Faculty of Medicine, İzmir, 
Turkey.

The neurologic dysfunctions caused by treatment may affect health and quality of 
life in survivors of childhood leukemia. The objective of this study was to 
identify the neuropsychological late effects of leukemia treatment to provide an 
assessment about the degree and incidence of these late effects. Neurological 
and ophtalmological examination, cranial magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), 
auditory and neurocognitive tests, and questionnaires of quality of life were 
performed to 44 acute leukemia survivors at least 5 years after diagnosis. 
Median time since completion of chemotherapy was 7.5 years (2-18) and median age 
at the time of the study was 16.4 years (8-31). At least one or more late 
effects detected by physical examination (PE), neurological tests, or 
neurocognitive tests encountered in 80% of the patients, and 64% of the patients 
specified at least one complaint in the quality of life questionnaire. MRI 
revealed pathological findings in 18% and electroencephalogram (EEG) 
abnormalities were present in 9% of the patients. Evaluation of total 
intelligence scores revealed that 30% of patients' IQ scores were <80 and 70% of 
the patients' scores demonstrated neurocognitive dysfunctions. The patients 
>6 years at the time of diagnosis were found to have more psychological problems 
and higher rates of smoking and alcohol consumption. The most frequent complaint 
was headache and the most common problem in school was denoted as difficulty in 
concentration. Our study demonstrated that most of the survivors of childhood 
leukemia are at risk of developing neuropsycological late effects.

DOI: 10.3109/08880018.2013.803212
PMID: 24088177 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1235. Psychiatr Prax. 2014 Mar;41(2):95-100. doi: 10.1055/s-0033-1349595. Epub 2013 
Oct 2.

[Multiple-choice vocabulary intelligence test MWT in schizophrenia: valid 
measure of premorbid intelligence?].

[Article in German]

Wittorf A(1), Wiedemann G(2), Klingberg S(1).

Author information:
(1)Universitätsklinik für Psychiatrie und Psychotherapie, Tübingen.
(2)Klinik für Psychiatrie und Psychotherapie, Klinikum Fulda.

OBJECTIVE: The multiple-choice vocabulary intelligence test MWT 
(Mehrfachwahl-Wortschatz-Intelligenztest) as a measure of premorbid IQ is widely 
used in clinical practice and research in Germany. The study examined whether 
the MWT is actually insensitive to brain dysfunction and psychopathology in 
patients with schizophrenia.
METHOD: 81 post-acute patients with schizophrenia and 27 matched healthy 
controls completed the MWT at two points in time. At baseline, we further 
applied a neuropsychological test battery and a psychopathology rating.
RESULTS: The multiple linear regression analysis showed that the MWT-IQ of 
patients is significantly confounded by neuropsychological dysfunctions and 
psychopathology. The repeated measurement ANOVA pointed to a significant 
recovery effect of the MWT-IQ during clinical remission in the patient group.
CONCLUSION: The results question the validity of the MWT as a measure of 
premorbid IQ in schizophrenia.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0033-1349595
PMID: 24089322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1236. Autism Res. 2013 Dec;6(6):642-50. doi: 10.1002/aur.1332. Epub 2013 Oct 2.

Increased coherence of white matter fiber tract organization in adults with 
Asperger syndrome: a diffusion tensor imaging study.

Roine U(1), Roine T, Salmi J, Nieminen-Von Wendt T, Leppämäki S, Rintahaka P, 
Tani P, Leemans A, Sams M.

Author information:
(1)Brain and Mind Laboratory, Department of Biomedical Engineering and 
Computational Science, Aalto University, Espoo, Finland.

To investigate whether there are global white matter (WM) differences between 
autistic and healthy adults, we performed diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) in 14 
male adults with Asperger syndrome (AS) and 19 gender-, age-, and intelligence 
quotient-matched controls. We focused on individuals with high-functioning 
autism spectrum disorder (ASD), AS, to decrease heterogeneity caused by large 
variation in the cognitive profile. Previous DTI studies of ASD have mainly 
focused on finding local changes in fractional anisotropy (FA) and mean 
diffusivity (MD), two indexes used to characterize microstructural properties of 
WM. Although the local or voxel-based approaches may be able to provide detailed 
information in terms of location of the observed differences, such results are 
known to be highly sensitive to partial volume effects, registration errors, or 
placement of the regions of interest. Therefore, we performed global histogram 
analyses of (a) whole-brain tractography results and (b) skeletonized WM masks. 
In addition to the FA and MD, the planar diffusion coefficient (CP) was computed 
as it can provide more specific information of the complexity of the neural 
structure. Our main finding indicated that adults with AS had higher mean FA 
values than controls. A less complex neural structure in adults with AS could 
have explained the results, but no significant difference in CP was found. Our 
results suggest that there are global abnormalities in the WM tissue of adults 
with AS.

© 2013 International Society for Autism Research, Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/aur.1332
PMID: 24089369 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1237. Autism. 2014 Aug;18(6):672-83. doi: 10.1177/1362361313493681. Epub 2013 Oct 2.

Group cognitive behavioural therapy and group recreational activity for adults 
with autism spectrum disorders: a preliminary randomized controlled trial.

Hesselmark E(1), Plenty S(2), Bejerot S(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden 
ehesselmark@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, 
Sweden.
(3)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden 
Northern Stockholm Psychiatry, VUB/KogNUS, St Göran Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden.

Although adults with autism spectrum disorder are an increasingly identified 
patient population, few treatment options are available. This preliminary 
randomized controlled open trial with a parallel design developed two group 
interventions for adults with autism spectrum disorders and intelligence within 
the normal range: cognitive behavioural therapy and recreational activity. Both 
interventions comprised 36 weekly 3-h sessions led by two therapists in groups 
of 6-8 patients. A total of 68 psychiatric patients with autism spectrum 
disorders participated in the study. Outcome measures were Quality of Life 
Inventory, Sense of Coherence Scale, Rosenberg Self-Esteem Scale and an 
exploratory analysis on measures of psychiatric health. Participants in both 
treatment conditions reported an increased quality of life at post-treatment (d 
= 0.39, p < 0.001), with no difference between interventions. No amelioration of 
psychiatric symptoms was observed. The dropout rate was lower with cognitive 
behavioural therapy than with recreational activity, and participants in 
cognitive behavioural therapy rated themselves as more generally improved, as 
well as more improved regarding expression of needs and understanding of 
difficulties. Both interventions appear to be promising treatment options for 
adults with autism spectrum disorder. The interventions' similar efficacy may be 
due to the common elements, structure and group setting. Cognitive behavioural 
therapy may be additionally beneficial in terms of increasing specific skills 
and minimizing dropout.

© The Author(s) 2013.

DOI: 10.1177/1362361313493681
PMCID: PMC4230566
PMID: 24089423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1238. Lancet Neurol. 2013 Nov;12(11):1076-83. doi: 10.1016/S1474-4422(13)70227-8. Epub 
2013 Oct 1.

Simvastatin for cognitive deficits and behavioural problems in patients with 
neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1-SIMCODA): a randomised, placebo-controlled trial.

van der Vaart T(1), Plasschaert E, Rietman AB, Renard M, Oostenbrink R, Vogels 
A, de Wit MC, Descheemaeker MJ, Vergouwe Y, Catsman-Berrevoets CE, Legius E, 
Elgersma Y, Moll HA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Erasmus University Medical Centre, Rotterdam, 
Netherlands; Department of Paediatrics, Erasmus University Medical Centre, 
Rotterdam, Netherlands; ENCORE Expertise Centre For Neurodevelopmental 
Disorders, Erasmus University Medical Centre, Rotterdam, Netherlands.

Comment in
    Lancet Neurol. 2013 Nov;12(11):1040-1.

BACKGROUND: Neurofibromatosis type 1 is a common genetic disorder characterised 
by neurocutaneous manifestations and cognitive and behavioural problems. Statins 
were shown to reduce analogous learning deficits in a mouse model of the 
disease, but a short-term trial in humans was inconclusive. We aimed to assess 
the use of simvastatin for the improvement of cognitive and behavioural deficits 
in children with neurofibromatosis type 1 for 12 months.
METHODS: In this randomised, double-masked, placebo-controlled trial, we 
recruited children with genetically confirmed neurofibromatosis type 1 aged 8-16 
years from two national referral centres in the Netherlands and Belgium. Those 
with symptomatic CNS abnormalities or on neurotropic medication, including 
stimulants, were excluded. Eligible patients were randomly assigned (1:1) via a 
computer-generated, permuted-block list to simvastatin (10 mg per day in month 
1, 20 mg per day in month 2, and 20-40 mg per day in months 3-12) or placebo for 
12 months. Investigators, participants, and parents were masked to treatment 
assignment. Primary outcome measures were full-scale intelligence (Wechsler 
intelligence scale for children), attention problems (child behaviour checklist, 
parent-rated [CBCL]), and internalising behavioural problems (CBCL). We did 
intention-to-treat analyses (of all patients who had outcome data) using linear 
regression of the 12 month outcome scores, adjusted for baseline performance. 
This trial is registered with the Netherlands Trial Register, number NTR2150.
FINDINGS: We randomly assigned 84 children to a treatment group (43 to 
simvastatin, 41 to placebo) between March 9, 2010, and March 6, 2012. We did not 
assess outcomes in two patients in the placebo group because they needed 
additional drug therapy. Simvastatin for 12 months had no effect on full-scale 
intelligence (treatment effect compared with placebo -1·3 IQ points [95% CI -3·8 
to 1·3]; p=0·33), attention problems (-1·6 T-score points [-4·3 to 1·0]; 
p=0·23), and internalising behavioural problems (-0·1 T-score points [-3·3 to 
3·1]; p=0·96). 38 (88%) of 43 patients on simvastatin and 39 (95%) of 41 
patients on placebo reported adverse events, which were serious in two and four 
patients, respectively.
INTERPRETATION: 12 month simvastatin treatment did not ameliorate cognitive 
deficits or behavioural problems in children with neurofibromatosis type 1. The 
use of 20-40 mg simvastatin per day for cognitive enhancement in children with 
neurofibromatosis type 1 is not recommended.
FUNDING: The Netherlands Organization for Health Research and Development 
(ZonMw), Research Foundation Flanders (FWO-Vlaanderen), Marguerite-Marie 
Delacroix Foundation, and the Dutch Neurofibromatosis Association (NFVN).

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1474-4422(13)70227-8
PMID: 24090588 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1239. Mol Genet Metab. 2013 Dec;110(4):418-23. doi: 10.1016/j.ymgme.2013.09.001. Epub 
2013 Sep 9.

Fluctuations in phenylalanine concentrations in phenylketonuria: a review of 
possible relationships with outcomes.

Cleary M(1), Trefz F, Muntau AC, Feillet F, van Spronsen FJ, Burlina A, 
Bélanger-Quintana A, Giżewska M, Gasteyger C, Bettiol E, Blau N, MacDonald A.

Author information:
(1)Great Ormond Street Hospital for Children NHS Foundation Trust, London, UK. 
Electronic address: Maureen.Cleary@gosh.nhs.uk.

Fluctuations in blood phenylalanine concentrations may be an important 
determinant of intellectual outcome in patients with early and continuously 
treated phenylketonuria (PKU). This review evaluates the studies on 
phenylalanine fluctuations, factors affecting fluctuations, and if stabilizing 
phenylalanine concentrations affects outcomes, particularly neurocognitive 
outcome. Electronic literature searches of Embase and PubMed were performed for 
English-language publications, and the bibliographies of identified publications 
were also searched. In patients with PKU, phenylalanine concentrations are 
highest in the morning. Factors that can affect phenylalanine fluctuations 
include age, diet, timing and dosing of protein substitute and energy intake, 
dietary adherence, phenylalanine hydroxylase genotype, changes in dietary 
phenylalanine intake and protein metabolism, illness, and growth rate. Even 
distribution of phenylalanine-free protein substitute intake throughout 24h may 
reduce blood phenylalanine fluctuations. Patients responsive to and treated with 
6R-tetrahydrobiopterin seem to have less fluctuation in their blood 
phenylalanine concentrations than controls. An increase in blood phenylalanine 
concentration may result in increased brain and cerebrospinal fluid 
phenylalanine concentrations within hours. Although some evidence suggests that 
stabilization of blood phenylalanine concentrations may have benefits in 
patients with PKU, more studies are needed to distinguish the effects of blood 
phenylalanine fluctuations from those of poor metabolic control.

© 2013.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymgme.2013.09.001
PMID: 24090706 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1240. Epilepsy Behav. 2013 Nov;29(2):407-11. doi: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2013.08.033. Epub 
2013 Oct 3.

Preschool behavioral problems in children prenatally exposed to antiepileptic 
drugs - a follow-up study.

Kjaer D(1), Christensen J, Bech BH, Pedersen LH, Vestergaard M, Olsen J.

Author information:
(1)Section for Epidemiology, Department of Public Health, Aarhus University, 
Denmark; Department of Pathology, Aarhus University Hospital, Denmark; 
Department of Clinical Pharmacology, Aarhus University Hospital, Denmark. 
Electronic address: dockjaer@dadlnet.dk.

We studied the association between maternal epilepsy, antiepileptic drug (AED) 
treatment, and behavioral problems in preschool children. In the Danish National 
Birth Cohort, we identified 4- to 5-year-old children whose mothers had epilepsy 
and received AED treatment (n=133) or not (n=304) during pregnancy and compared 
them with randomly selected children whose mothers did not have epilepsy 
(n=1193). The children's behavioral problems were assessed by the use of the 
Strengths and Difficulties Questionnaire (SDQ). Children prenatally exposed to 
AEDs more often had an abnormal total SDQ score as compared with children of 
women without epilepsy (odds ratio (OR)=4.8 (95% CI: 1.9-12.1)) and as compared 
with children of women with epilepsy who were not treated with AEDs during their 
pregnancy (OR=4.0 (95% CI: 1.3-12.8)). In conclusion, prenatal AED exposure may 
increase the risk of behavioral problems in preschool children even after 
adjustments for potential confounders and maternal epilepsy.

© 2013.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2013.08.033
PMID: 24090777 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1241. Psychol Sci. 2013 Dec;24(12):2409-19. doi: 10.1177/0956797613492984. Epub 2013 
Oct 3.

Working memory training may increase working memory capacity but not fluid 
intelligence.

Harrison TL(1), Shipstead Z, Hicks KL, Hambrick DZ, Redick TS, Engle RW.

Author information:
(1)1Georgia Institute of Technology.

Working memory is a critical element of complex cognition, particularly under 
conditions of distraction and interference. Measures of working memory capacity 
correlate positively with many measures of real-world cognition, including fluid 
intelligence. There have been numerous attempts to use training procedures to 
increase working memory capacity and thereby performance on the real-world tasks 
that rely on working memory capacity. In the study reported here, we 
demonstrated that training on complex working memory span tasks leads to 
improvement on similar tasks with different materials but that such training 
does not generalize to measures of fluid intelligence.

DOI: 10.1177/0956797613492984
PMID: 24091548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1242. Neuron. 2013 Oct 2;80(1):35-50. doi: 10.1016/j.neuron.2013.09.015. Epub 2013 Oct 
2.

The structure of cognition: attentional episodes in mind and brain.

Duncan J(1).

Author information:
(1)MRC Cognition and Brain Sciences Unit, Cambridge, CB2 7EF UK; Department of 
Experimental Psychology, University of Oxford, Oxford OX1 3UD, UK. Electronic 
address: john.duncan@mrc-cbu.cam.ac.uk.

Cognition is organized in a structured series of attentional episodes, allowing 
complex problems to be addressed through solution of simpler subproblems. A 
"multiple-demand" (MD) system of frontal and parietal cortex is active in many 
different kinds of tasks, and using data from neuroimaging, electrophysiology, 
neuropsychology, and cognitive studies of intelligence, I propose a core role 
for MD regions in assembly of the attentional episode. Monkey and human data 
show dynamic neural coding of attended information across multiple MD regions, 
with rapid communication within and between regions. Neuropsychological and 
imaging data link MD function to fluid intelligence, explaining some but not all 
"executive" deficits after frontal lobe lesions. Cognitive studies link fluid 
intelligence to goal neglect, and the problem of dividing complex task 
requirements into focused parts. Like the innate releasing mechanism of 
ethology, I suggest that construction of the attentional episode provides a core 
organizational principle for complex, adaptive cognition.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuron.2013.09.015
PMCID: PMC3791406
PMID: 24094101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1243. Br J Psychol. 2013 Nov;104(4):443-56. doi: 10.1111/bjop.12049.

On applying cognitive psychology.

Baddeley A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of York, UK.

Recent attempts to assess the practical impact of scientific research prompted 
my own reflections on over 40 years worth of combining basic and applied 
cognitive psychology. Examples are drawn principally from the study of memory 
disorders, but also include applications to the assessment of attention, 
reading, and intelligence. The most striking conclusion concerns the many years 
it typically takes to go from an initial study, to the final practical outcome. 
Although the complexity and sheer timescale involved make external evaluation 
problematic, the combination of practical satisfaction and theoretical 
stimulation make the attempt to combine basic and applied research very 
rewarding.

© 2013 The British Psychological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/bjop.12049
PMID: 24094277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1244. Gene. 2014 Jan 15;534(1):100-6. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2013.09.093. Epub 2013 Oct 
2.

Siblings with opposite chromosome constitutions, dup(2q)/del(7q) and 
del(2q)/dup(7q).

Shim SH(1), Shim JS, Min K, Lee HS, Park JE, Park SH, Hwang E, Kim M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Science, College of Life Science, CHA University, 
Republic of Korea; Genetics Laboratory, Fertility Center of CHA Gangnam Medical 
Center, CHA University, Republic of Korea.

Chromosome 7q36 microdeletion syndrome is a rare genomic disorder characterized 
by underdevelopment of the brain, microcephaly, anomalies of the sex organs, and 
language problems. Developmental delay, intellectual disability, autistic 
spectrum disorders, BDMR syndrome, and unusual facial morphology are the key 
features of the chromosome 2q37 microdeletion syndrome. A genetic screening for 
two brothers with global developmental delay using high-resolution chromosomal 
analysis and subtelomeric multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification 
revealed subtelomeric rearrangements on the same sites of 2q37.2 and 7q35, with 
reversed deletion and duplication. Both of them showed dysmorphic facial 
features, severe disability of physical and intellectual development, and 
abnormal genitalia with differential abnormalities in their phenotypes. The 
family did not have abnormal genetic phenotypes. According to the genetic 
analysis of their parents, adjacent-1 segregation from their mother's was 
suggested as a mechanism of their gene mutation. By comparing the phenotypes of 
our patients with previous reports on similar patients, we tried to obtain the 
information of related genes and their chromosomal locations.

© 2013.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2013.09.093
PMID: 24095776 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1245. Neurobiol Learn Mem. 2014 Feb;108:185-95. doi: 10.1016/j.nlm.2013.09.014. Epub 
2013 Oct 2.

Associations and propositions: the case for a dual-process account of learning 
in humans.

McLaren IP(1), Forrest CL(1), McLaren RP(1), Jones FW(2), Aitken MR(1), 
Mackintosh NJ(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Psychology, University of Exeter, Perry Road, Exeter, EX4 4QG, UK.
(2)School of Psychology, University of Exeter, Perry Road, Exeter, EX4 4QG, UK; 
Department of Psychology, Politics and Sociology, Canterbury Christ Church 
University, UK.
(3)Department of Psychology, University of Cambridge, Downing St., Cambridge CB2 
3EB, UK. Electronic address: njsmm10@gmail.com.

We review evidence that supports the conclusion that people can and do learn in 
two distinct ways - one associative, the other propositional. No one disputes 
that we solve problems by testing hypotheses and inducing underlying rules, so 
the issue amounts to deciding whether there is evidence that we (and other 
animals) also rely on a simpler, associative system, that detects the frequency 
of occurrence of different events in our environment and the contingencies 
between them. There is neuroscientific evidence that associative learning occurs 
in at least some animals (e.g., Aplysia californica), so it must be the case 
that associative learning has evolved. Since both associative and propositional 
theories can in principle account for many instances of successful learning, the 
problem is then to show that there are at least some cases where the two classes 
of theory predict different outcomes. We offer a demonstration of cue 
competition effects in humans under incidental conditions as evidence against 
the argument that all such effects are based on cognitive inference. The latter 
supposition would imply that if the necessary information is unavailable to 
inference then no cue competition should occur. We then discuss the case of 
unblocking by reinforcer omission, where associative theory predicts an 
irrational solution to the problem, and consider the phenomenon of the Perruchet 
effect, in which conscious expectancy and conditioned response dissociate. 
Further discussion makes use of evidence that people will sometimes provide one 
solution to a problem when it is presented to them in summary form, and another 
when they are presented in rapid succession with trial-by trial information. We 
also demonstrate that people trained on a discrimination may show a peak shift 
(predicted by associative theory), but given the time and opportunity to detect 
the relationships between S+ and S-, show rule-based behavior instead. Finally, 
we conclude by presenting evidence that research on individual differences 
suggests that variation in intelligence and explicit problem solving ability are 
quite unrelated to variation in implicit (associative) learning, and briefly 
consider the computational implications of our argument, by asking how both 
associative and propositional processes can be accommodated within a single 
framework for cognition.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nlm.2013.09.014
PMID: 24096204 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1246. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 2014 Mar;231(6):1201-16. doi: 
10.1007/s00213-013-3290-7. Epub 2013 Oct 6.

Biomarkers in autism spectrum disorder: the old and the new.

Ruggeri B(1), Sarkans U, Schumann G, Persico AM.

Author information:
(1)MRC Social, Genetic and Developmental Psychiatry Centre, Institute of 
Psychiatry, King's College London, De Crespigny Park, London, SE5 8AF, UK.

RATIONALE: Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a complex heterogeneous 
neurodevelopmental disorder with onset during early childhood and typically a 
life-long course. The majority of ASD cases stems from complex, 'multiple-hit', 
oligogenic/polygenic underpinnings involving several loci and possibly 
gene-environment interactions. These multiple layers of complexity spur interest 
into the identification of biomarkers able to define biologically homogeneous 
subgroups, predict autism risk prior to the onset of behavioural abnormalities, 
aid early diagnoses, predict the developmental trajectory of ASD children, 
predict response to treatment and identify children at risk for severe adverse 
reactions to psychoactive drugs.
OBJECTIVES: The present paper reviews (a) similarities and differences between 
the concepts of 'biomarker' and 'endophenotype', (b) established biomarkers and 
endophenotypes in autism research (biochemical, morphological, hormonal, 
immunological, neurophysiological and neuroanatomical, neuropsychological, 
behavioural), (c) -omics approaches towards the discovery of novel biomarker 
panels for ASD, (d) bioresource infrastructures and (e) data management for 
biomarker research in autism.
RESULTS: Known biomarkers, such as abnormal blood levels of serotonin, oxytocin, 
melatonin, immune cytokines and lymphocyte subtypes, multiple 
neuropsychological, electrophysiological and brain imaging parameters, will 
eventually merge with novel biomarkers identified using unbiased genomic, 
epigenomic, transcriptomic, proteomic and metabolomic methods, to generate 
multimarker panels. Bioresource infrastructures, data management and data 
analysis using artificial intelligence networks will be instrumental in 
supporting efforts to identify these biomarker panels.
CONCLUSIONS: Biomarker research has great heuristic potential in targeting 
autism diagnosis and treatment.

DOI: 10.1007/s00213-013-3290-7
PMID: 24096533 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1247. Bone Marrow Transplant. 2014 Mar;49(3):332-7. doi: 10.1038/bmt.2013.146. Epub 
2013 Oct 7.

Application of machine learning algorithms for clinical predictive modeling: a 
data-mining approach in SCT.

Shouval R(1), Bondi O(2), Mishan H(2), Shimoni A(3), Unger R(2), Nagler A(3).

Author information:
(1)1] The Division of Hematology and Bone Marrow Transplantation and Internal 
Medicine "F" Department, The Chaim Sheba Medical Center, Tel HaShomer, Israel 
[2] 2013 Pinchas Borenstein Talpiot Medical Leadership Program, The Chaim Sheba 
Medical Center, Tel HaShomer, Israel.
(2)The Mina and Everard Goodman Faculty of Life Sciences, Bar-Ilan University, 
Ramat-Gan, Israel.
(3)The Division of Hematology and Bone Marrow Transplantation and Internal 
Medicine "F" Department, The Chaim Sheba Medical Center, Tel HaShomer, Israel.

Data collected from hematopoietic SCT (HSCT) centers are becoming more abundant 
and complex owing to the formation of organized registries and incorporation of 
biological data. Typically, conventional statistical methods are used for the 
development of outcome prediction models and risk scores. However, these 
analyses carry inherent properties limiting their ability to cope with large 
data sets with multiple variables and samples. Machine learning (ML), a field 
stemming from artificial intelligence, is part of a wider approach for data 
analysis termed data mining (DM). It enables prediction in complex data 
scenarios, familiar to practitioners and researchers. Technological and 
commercial applications are all around us, gradually entering clinical research. 
In the following review, we would like to expose hematologists and stem cell 
transplanters to the concepts, clinical applications, strengths and limitations 
of such methods and discuss current research in HSCT. The aim of this review is 
to encourage utilization of the ML and DM techniques in the field of HSCT, 
including prediction of transplantation outcome and donor selection.

DOI: 10.1038/bmt.2013.146
PMID: 24096823 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1248. J Fam Psychol. 2013 Oct;27(5):795-805. doi: 10.1037/a0034009.

Does dyadic coping mediate the relationship between emotional intelligence (EI) 
and marital quality?

Zeidner M(1), Kloda I, Matthews G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Counseling and Human Development, University of Haifa.

This study tested for the mediational effects of dyadic coping in the observed 
relationship between emotional intelligence, assessed both as ability and as 
trait, and quality of marital relations. We used a standard dyadic design 
involving 100 newlywed heterosexual couples who were assessed on EI measures 
along with measures of dyadic coping and perceived marital quality. Total dyadic 
coping, as well as dyadic coping of oneself and dyadic coping of partner, were 
observed to mediate the association between EI and marital quality. These data 
provide some support for the commonly held assumption that EI plays a role in 
marital relationships, as mediated by dyadic coping. However, whereas the 
individual appears to benefit from being emotionally intelligent, the benefit is 
not transmitted to the other partner in the relationship.

DOI: 10.1037/a0034009
PMID: 24098964 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1249. Clin Neuropsychol. 2013;27(8):1362-72. doi: 10.1080/13854046.2013.845248. Epub 
2013 Oct 7.

WAIS-IV reliable digit span is no more accurate than age corrected scaled score 
as an indicator of invalid performance in a veteran sample undergoing evaluation 
for mTBI.

Spencer RJ(1), Axelrod BN, Drag LL, Waldron-Perrine B, Pangilinan PH, 
Bieliauskas LA.

Author information:
(1)a Department of Mental Health Services , VA Ann Arbor Healthcare System , MI 
, USA .

Reliable Digit Span (RDS) is a measure of effort derived from the Digit Span 
subtest of the Wechsler intelligence scales. Some authors have suggested that 
the age-corrected scaled score provides a more accurate measure of effort than 
RDS. This study examined the relative diagnostic accuracy of the traditional 
RDS, an extended RDS including the new Sequencing task from the Wechsler Adult 
Intelligence Scale-IV, and the age-corrected scaled score, relative to 
performance validity as determined by the Test of Memory Malingering. Data were 
collected from 138 Veterans seen in a traumatic brain injury clinic. The 
traditional RDS (≤ 7), revised RDS (≤ 11), and Digit Span age-corrected scaled 
score ( ≤ 6) had respective sensitivities of 39%, 39%, and 33%, and respective 
specificities of 82%, 89%, and 91%. Of these indices, revised RDS and the Digit 
Span age-corrected scaled score provide the most accurate measure of performance 
validity among the three measures.

DOI: 10.1080/13854046.2013.845248
PMID: 24099142 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1250. BMC Public Health. 2013 Oct 8;13:936. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-13-936.

Rationale, design and methods for a community-based study of clustering and 
cumulative effects of chronic disease processes and their effects on ageing: the 
Busselton healthy ageing study.

James A(1), Hunter M, Straker L, Beilby J, Bucks R, Davis T, Eikelboom RH, 
Hillman D, Hui J, Hung J, Knuiman M, Mackey DA, Newton RU, Palmer LJ, Musk AB; 
Busselton Healthy Ageing Study Investigator Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pulmonary Physiology and Sleep Medicine/West Australian Sleep 
Disorders Institute, Sir Charles Gairdner Hospital, Nedlands, Perth, Australia. 
Alan.James.SCGH@health.wa.gov.au.

BACKGROUND: The global trend of increased life expectancy and increased 
prevalence of chronic and degenerative diseases will impact on health systems. 
To identify effective intervention and prevention strategies, greater 
understanding of the risk factors for and cumulative effects of chronic disease 
processes and their effects on function and quality of life is needed.The 
Busselton Healthy Ageing Study aims to enhance understanding of ageing by 
relating the clustering and interactions of common chronic conditions in adults 
to function. Longitudinal (3-5 yearly) follow-up is planned.
METHODS/DESIGN: Phase I (recruitment) is a cross-sectional community-based 
prospective cohort study involving up to 4,000 'Baby Boomers' (born from 1946 to 
1964) living in the Busselton Shire, Western Australia. The study protocol 
involves a detailed, self-administered health and risk factor questionnaire and 
a range of physical assessments including body composition and bone density 
measurements, cardiovascular profiling (blood pressure, ECG and brachial pulse 
wave velocity), retinal photography, tonometry, auto-refraction, spirometry and 
bronchodilator responsiveness, skin allergy prick tests, sleep apnoea screening, 
tympanometry and audiometry, grip strength, mobility, balance and leg extensor 
strength. Cognitive function and reserve, semantic memory, and pre-morbid 
intelligence are assessed. Participants provide a fasting blood sample for 
assessment of lipids, blood glucose, C-reactive protein and renal and liver 
function, and RNA, DNA and serum are stored. Clinically relevant results are 
provided to all participants. The prevalence of risk factors, symptoms and 
diagnosed illness will be calculated and the burden of illness will be estimated 
based on the observed relationships and clustering of symptoms and illness 
within individuals. Risk factors for combinations of illness will be compared 
with those for single illnesses and the relation of combinations of illness and 
symptoms to cognitive and physical function will be estimated.
DISCUSSION: This study will enable a thorough characterization of multiple 
disease processes and their risk factors within a community-based sample of 
individuals to determine their singular, interactive and cumulative effects on 
ageing. The project will provide novel cross-sectional data and establish a 
cohort that will be used for longitudinal analyses of the genetic, lifestyle and 
environmental factors that determine whether an individual ages well or with 
impairment.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-13-936
PMCID: PMC3852572
PMID: 24099269 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1251. Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci. 2013 Oct 7;368(1630):20120418. doi: 
10.1098/rstb.2012.0418. Print 2013 Nov 19.

Did tool-use evolve with enhanced physical cognitive abilities?

Teschke I(1), Wascher CA, Scriba MF, von Bayern AM, Huml V, Siemers B, Tebbich 
S.

Author information:
(1)Max Planck Institute for Ornithology, , Seewiesen, Germany.

The use and manufacture of tools have been considered to be cognitively 
demanding and thus a possible driving factor in the evolution of intelligence. 
In this study, we tested the hypothesis that enhanced physical cognitive 
abilities evolved in conjunction with the use of tools, by comparing the 
performance of naturally tool-using and non-tool-using species in a suite of 
physical and general learning tasks. We predicted that the habitually tool-using 
species, New Caledonian crows and Galápagos woodpecker finches, should 
outperform their non-tool-using relatives, the small tree finches and the 
carrion crows in a physical problem but not in general learning tasks. We only 
found a divergence in the predicted direction for corvids. That only one of our 
comparisons supports the predictions under this hypothesis might be attributable 
to different complexities of tool-use in the two tool-using species. A critical 
evaluation is offered of the conceptual and methodological problems inherent in 
comparative studies on tool-related cognitive abilities.

DOI: 10.1098/rstb.2012.0418
PMCID: PMC4027416
PMID: 24101628 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1252. Neuro Oncol. 2013 Nov;15(11):1543-51. doi: 10.1093/neuonc/not127. Epub 2013 Oct 
6.

Neuropsychological functions and quality of life in survived patients with 
intracranial germ cell tumors after treatment.

Liang SY(1), Yang TF, Chen YW, Liang ML, Chen HH, Chang KP, Shan IK, Chen YS, 
Wong TT.

Author information:
(1)Corresponding Author: Tai-Tong Wong, MD, Department of Surgery, Cheng Hsin 
General Hospital. No.45, Cheng Hsin St., Pei-Tou, Taipei 112, Taiwan. 
ttwong@vghtpe.gov.tw.

BACKGROUND: The notable survival chances of intracranial germ cell tumors 
(icGCTs) lead to a rising concern over long-term neurocognitive outcome. Yet, 
prior evidence related to this issue fails to provide a comprehensive 
examination of the effects of tumor location and radiotherapy. We attempt to 
explore their impacts on the neuropsychological functions and life quality in 
children with icGCT after multimodality treatments.
METHODS: A retrospective review of 56 patients diagnosed with icGCTs at age <20 
and treated at the Taipei Veterans General Hospital was provided. Intelligence, 
memory, visual organization, attention, and executive function were assessed by 
neurocognitive tests; adaptation to life, emotional and behavioral changes, 
interpersonal relationships, and impact on the family were evaluated by 
parent-report instruments. Effects of tumor locations (germinomas and 
nongerminomatous malignant germ cell tumors in the pineal, suprasellar, and 
basal ganglia) and irradiation on these measurements were examined.
RESULTS: Patients with tumors in the basal ganglia region had lower full-scale 
IQs than those with tumors in the pineal or suprasellar regions. Subscores of 
intelligence scale and short-term retention of verbal and visual stimuli showed 
evident group differences, as did the quality of life and adaptive skills, 
particularly in psychosocial domains. Patients treated with whole-ventricular 
irradiation had better outcomes. Extensive irradiation field and high 
irradiation dosage influenced intellectual functions, concept crystallization, 
executive function, and memory.
CONCLUSIONS: Tumor location and irradiation field/dosage appear to be the 
crucial factors related to certain neuropsychological, emotional, and behavioral 
dysfunctions that in turn alter the quality of life in children with icGCTs who 
survive after treatment.

DOI: 10.1093/neuonc/not127
PMCID: PMC3813422
PMID: 24101738 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1253. Neuro Oncol. 2013 Nov;15(11):1552-9. doi: 10.1093/neuonc/not121. Epub 2013 Oct 
6.

Proton radiotherapy for pediatric central nervous system ependymoma: clinical 
outcomes for 70 patients.

Macdonald SM(1), Sethi R, Lavally B, Yeap BY, Marcus KJ, Caruso P, Pulsifer M, 
Huang M, Ebb D, Tarbell NJ, Yock TI.

Author information:
(1)This paper was presented at the International Symposium on Pediatric 
Neuro-Oncology on June 24, 2012, in Toronto, Canada.Corresponding Author: 
Shannon MacDonald, MD, Massachusetts General Hospital, Department of Radiation 
Oncology, Yawkey 112, 30 Fruit Street, Boston, MA 02114. 
smacdonald@partners.org.

BACKGROUND: Ependymoma is treated with maximal surgical resection and localized 
radiotherapy. Minimizing unnecessary exposure to radiation is of paramount 
importance for young children. Proton radiotherapy (PRT) spares healthy tissues 
outside the target region, but reports of clinical outcomes are scarce. We 
report outcomes for 70 patients treated with PRT for intracranial ependymoma.
METHODS: Seventy patients with localized ependymoma treated with involved-field 
PRT at the Massachusetts General Hospital between October 2000 and February 2011 
were included.
RESULTS: Median age at diagnosis was 38 months (range, 3 mo-20 y). Nineteen 
(27%) patients had supratentorial ependymoma and 51(73%) had infratentorial 
ependymoma. Forty-six (66%) had gross total resection (GTR), and 24 (34%) had 
subtotal resection (STR). At a median follow-up of 46 months, 3-year local 
control, progression-free survival, and overall survival were 83%, 76%, and 95%, 
respectively. STR was significantly associated with worse progression-free 
survival (54% vs 88%, P = .001) and overall survival (90% vs 97% for GTR, P = 
.001). In a subset of patients (n = 14), mean intelligence was 108.5 at baseline 
and 111.3 after mean 2.05 years of follow-up. In a larger group of patients (n = 
28), overall adaptive skills were 100.1 at baseline and 100.8 after 2.21 years 
of follow-up. Few patients developed evidence of growth hormone deficiency, 
hypothyroidism, or hearing loss.
CONCLUSION: Outcomes for children treated with PRT compare favorably with the 
literature. STR correlated with inferior outcome. The young age at diagnosis and 
the proximity of critical structures in patients with ependymoma make PRT an 
ideal radiation modality.

DOI: 10.1093/neuonc/not121
PMCID: PMC3813421
PMID: 24101739 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1254. Dev Neurorehabil. 2014 Aug;17(4):219-23. doi: 10.3109/17518423.2012.749952. Epub 
2013 Oct 8.

Voices from the past: comparing the rapid prompting method and facilitated 
communication.

Tostanoski A(1), Lang R, Raulston T, Carnett A, Davis T.

Author information:
(1)Clinic for Autism Research Evaluation and Support, Texas State University-San 
Marcos , San Marcos, TX , USA.

OBJECTIVE: This article briefly reviews the history and damage caused by 
facilitated communication (FC) and highlights the parallels between FC and the 
Rapid Prompting Method (RPM).
BACKGROUND: FC involves a therapist (or facilitator) supporting the hand of a 
person with autism while a message is typed on a letter board. FC is widely 
acknowledged to be a pseudoscientific, unsafe, and unethical treatment for 
people with autism. RPM is a more recent intervention for people with autism 
that involves the facilitator holding and moving the letter board while the 
individual with autism moves their own hand. Those who espouse the perceived 
benefits of FC and RPM make strikingly similar claims of hidden intelligence and 
extraordinary communication abilities in people with autism following treatment.
CONCLUSION: Clients, proponents, and practitioners of RPM should demand 
scientific validation of RPM in order to ensure the safety of people with 
disabilities that are involved with RPM.

DOI: 10.3109/17518423.2012.749952
PMID: 24102487 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1255. Am J Transplant. 2013 Nov;13(11):2956-65. doi: 10.1111/ajt.12408. Epub 2013 Sep 
18.

Cognitive performance in pediatric liver transplant recipients.

Kaller T(1), Langguth N, Petermann F, Ganschow R, Nashan B, Schulz KH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Psychology, University Medical Center 
Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany; Center of Clinical Psychology and 
Rehabilitation, University of Bremen, Bremen, Germany.

Comment in
    Am J Transplant. 2013 Nov;13(11):2790-1.

To date, the course of cognitive development in children after liver 
transplantation (Ltx) is poorly understood. Cognitive performance, however, is 
crucial in all developmental stages and for educational achievement. This 
cross-sectional single-center study examined the prevalence of long-term 
cognitive impairment in a cohort of 64 pediatric patients after Ltx. Median age 
at Ltx was 12 months. The revised Wechsler Intelligence Scale IV was 
administered to assess cognitive performance. Patients were compared with an 
age- and gender-matched group of children without a chronic health condition. 
Liver transplanted children performed significantly worse in three of four 
cognitive domains as well as in the Total Intelligence Quotient (Total IQ) 
(p = 0.017 to p = 0.005). Liver transplant recipients showed substantially more 
"serious delays" (IQ < 70) compared to the reference group (9.4% vs. 4.7%). 
Children with a genetic-metabolic disease performed worse than the other groups 
in three of the four WISC Indices and in the Total IQ (p = 0.05 to p = 0.01). 
The strongest association was revealed between height at Ltx and Verbal 
Comprehension (R(2)  = 0.21), Perceptual Reasoning (R(2)  = 0.30), Working 
Memory (R(2)  = 0.23) and Total IQ (R(2)  = 0.25). Our results indicate a high 
impact of primary diagnosis and height percentile at Ltx even on children's 
long-term cognitive performance.

© Copyright 2013 The American Society of Transplantation and the American 
Society of Transplant Surgeons.

DOI: 10.1111/ajt.12408
PMID: 24102763 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1256. Paediatr Anaesth. 2014 Mar;24(3):257-65. doi: 10.1111/pan.12257. Epub 2013 Sep 
19.

Neurotoxicity of sedative and analgesia drugs in young infants with congenital 
heart disease: 4-year follow-up.

Garcia Guerra G(1), Robertson CM, Alton GY, Joffe AR, Cave DA, Yasmin F, Dinu 
IA, Creighton DE, Ross DB, Rebeyka IM; Western Canadian Complex Pediatric 
Therapies Follow-up Group.

Collaborators: Moddemann D, Blakley P, Sauve R, Bodani J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB, Canada.

OBJECTIVES/AIM: To determine whether sedation/analgesia drugs used before, 
during, and after infant cardiac surgery are associated with neurocognitive and 
functional outcomes.
BACKGROUND: Some animal models suggest neurotoxic effects of anesthetic drugs on 
the developing brain; however, potential human effects are unknown. Whether 
these results can be extrapolated to humans is unknown.
METHODS/MATERIALS: Prospective follow-up project of all infants ≤6 weeks old 
having surgery for congenital heart disease between 04/03 and 12/06. 
Demographic, perioperative, and sedation/analgesia variables were collected. 
Outcomes at kindergarten age were Wechsler Preschool and Primary Scale of 
Intelligence-III, Beery-Buktenica Developmental Test of Visual Motor Integration 
(VMI-V), and General Adaptive Composite (GAC) of the Adaptive Behavior 
Assessment System-II. Multivariable linear regression was used to identify 
predictor variables.
RESULTS: From 135 infants who underwent heart surgery, 19 died, 17 were 
excluded, 8 were lost to follow-up, leaving 91 children for analysis. Multiple 
linear regression found days on chloral hydrate [3.5 (3.7) days] was associated 
with lower performance intelligence quotient (PIQ) (Effect size -1.03; 95% CI 
-1.96, -0.10; P = 0.03), and cumulative dose [54.2 (60.3) mg·kg(-1) ] of 
benzodiazepines was associated with lower VMI scores (Effect size -0.07; 95% CI 
-0.12, -0.01; P = 0.026). No other associations were found between 
sedation/analgesia variables and full-scale IQ, PIQ, Verbal IQ, VMI, or GAC.
CONCLUSION: Assessment of this cohort at kindergarten age found a small 
statistically significant association between days on chloral hydrate and PIQ, 
and benzodiazepine cumulative dose and lower VMI. No other association between 
sedation/analgesia drugs and outcomes was found.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/pan.12257
PMID: 24103018 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1257. Eur J Paediatr Neurol. 2014 Jan;18(1):60-5. doi: 10.1016/j.ejpn.2013.08.005. 
Epub 2013 Sep 25.

Neuropsychological performance in children with temporal lobe epilepsy having 
normal MRI findings.

Mankinen K(1), Harila MJ(2), Rytky SI(3), Pokka TM(4), Rantala HM(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Oulu University Hospital, PB 29, 90014 Oulu, 
Finland. Electronic address: katariina.mankinen@oulu.fi.
(2)Department of Neurology, Oulu University Hospital, Oulu, Finland.
(3)Department of Clinical Neurophysiology, Oulu University Hospital, Oulu, 
Finland.
(4)Department of Pediatrics, Oulu University Hospital, PB 29, 90014 Oulu, 
Finland.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Most information on the neuropsychological performance of 
pediatric patients with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) is derived from selected 
surgical series. Non-lesional pediatric TLE patients were studied here at the 
population level in order to investigate the extent to which neuropsychological 
deficits predisposing to learning difficulties exist in this more common group.
METHODS: Language, memory and executive functions were measured in children aged 
8-15 years with non-lesional TLE and of normal intelligence (n = 21), and their 
performance was compared with that of healthy age and gender-matched children (n 
= 21). The effects of clinical epilepsy variables on performance were examined.
RESULTS: Although neuropsychological performance did not differ between the TLE 
patients and the healthy controls, female gender, early onset, longer duration 
and abnormal interictal EEG had a negative effect on neuropsychological 
performance.
CONCLUSIONS: Children with early-onset epilepsy should be assessed carefully for 
neuropsychological impairment using sufficiently broad batteries of tests in 
order to detect even slight deficits. Our sample size was small and these 
findings should be interpreted as preliminary results and need to be confirmed 
in larger studies.

Copyright © 2013. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejpn.2013.08.005
PMID: 24103143 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1258. Neuropsychologia. 2013 Nov;51(13):2841-6. doi: 
10.1016/j.neuropsychologia.2013.09.037. Epub 2013 Oct 5.

Lifelong bilingualism contributes to cognitive reserve against white matter 
integrity declines in aging.

Gold BT(1), Johnson NF, Powell DK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, University of Kentucky, Lexington, KY 
40536, USA; Magnetic Resonance Imaging and Spectroscopy Center, University of 
Kentucky, Lexington, KY 40536, USA; Sanders-Brown Center on Aging, University of 
Kentucky, Lexington, KY 40536, USA. Electronic address: brian.gold@uky.edu.

Recent evidence suggests that lifelong bilingualism may contribute to cognitive 
reserve (CR) in normal aging. However, there is currently no neuroimaging 
evidence to suggest that lifelong bilinguals can retain normal cognitive 
functioning in the face of age-related neurodegeneration. Here we explored this 
issue by comparing white matter (WM) integrity and gray matter (GM) volumetric 
patterns of older adult lifelong bilinguals (N=20) and monolinguals (N=20). The 
groups were matched on a range of relevant cognitive test scores and on the 
established CR variables of education, socioeconomic status and intelligence. 
Participants underwent high-resolution structural imaging for assessment of GM 
volume and diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) for assessment of WM integrity. 
Results indicated significantly lower microstructural integrity in the bilingual 
group in several WM tracts. In particular, compared to their monolingual peers, 
the bilingual group showed lower fractional anisotropy and/or higher radial 
diffusivity in the inferior longitudinal fasciculus/inferior fronto-occipital 
fasciculus bilaterally, the fornix, and multiple portions of the corpus 
callosum. There were no group differences in GM volume. Our results suggest that 
lifelong bilingualism contributes to CR against WM integrity declines in aging.

© 2013 Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuropsychologia.2013.09.037
PMCID: PMC3856701
PMID: 24103400 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1259. Ann Gen Psychiatry. 2013 Oct 8;12(1):31. doi: 10.1186/1744-859X-12-31.

Dysfunction of orbitofrontal and dorsolateral prefrontal cortices in children 
and adolescents with high-functioning pervasive developmental disorders.

Sawa T(1), Kodaira M, Oiji A, Sasayama D, Iwadare Y, Ushijima H, Usami M, 
Watanabe K, Saito K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Developmental Psychiatry, Kitasato University Graduate School 
of Medical Science, 1-15-1 Kitasato, Minami-Ku, Sagamihara, Kanagawa 252-0374, 
Japan. pah00652@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Several lines of evidence suggest that dysfunction of the 
dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) and orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) 
contributes to the pathophysiology of pervasive developmental disorders (PDD). 
The purpose of this study was to investigate neuropsychological dysfunctions in 
both the DLPFC and OFC of children and adolescents with high-functioning PDD.
METHODS: The Iowa gambling task (IGT), which reflects OFC function, and the 
Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST), which reflects DLPFC function, were assigned 
to 19 children and early adolescents with high-functioning PDD and 19 healthy 
controls matched for gender, age, and intelligence.
RESULTS: Compared to healthy controls, patients with high-functioning PDD 
displayed poorer performance on the IGT and the WCST.
CONCLUSIONS: These results indicate that both the DLPFC and OFC could be 
impaired in children and early adolescents with high-functioning PDD.

DOI: 10.1186/1744-859X-12-31
PMCID: PMC3851848
PMID: 24103490


1260. J Health Econ. 2013 Dec;32(6):1013-27. doi: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2013.08.001. Epub 
2013 Aug 28.

The long-term cognitive consequences of early childhood malnutrition: the case 
of famine in Ghana.

Ampaabeng SK(1), Tan CM.

Author information:
(1)IMPAQ International, LLC, 10420 Little Patuxent Parkway, Suite 110, Columbia, 
MD 21044, United States.

We examine the role of early childhood health in human capital accumulation. 
Using a unique data set from Ghana with comprehensive information on individual, 
family, community, school quality characteristics and a direct measure of 
intelligence together with test scores, we examine the long-term cognitive 
effects of the 1983 famine on survivors. We show that differences in 
intelligence test scores can be robustly explained by the differential impact of 
the famine in different parts of the country and the impacts are most severe for 
children under two years of age during the famine. We also account for model 
uncertainty by using Bayesian Model Averaging.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2013.08.001
PMID: 24103497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1261. J Affect Disord. 2013 Dec;151(3):1066-75. doi: 10.1016/j.jad.2013.08.036. Epub 
2013 Sep 21.

Neurocognitive changes in depressed patients in psychodynamic psychotherapy, 
therapy with fluoxetine and combination therapy.

Bastos AG(1), Guimarães LS, Trentini CM.

Author information:
(1)Federal University of Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil; Contemporary Institute of 
Psychoanalysis and Transdisciplinarity of Porto Alegre, Brazil. Electronic 
address: andregbastos@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) examining the efficacy of 
different forms of therapy for depression are relatively common. However, there 
are not many RCTs comparing neurocognitive effects of these treatments. 
Neurocognitive changes across three types of treatment for depression were 
compared. Long-term psychodynamic psychotherapy (LTPP) was compared with 
fluoxetine treatment, and their combination, in the treatment of moderate 
depression.
METHODS: A 272 adult patients with beck depression inventory (BDI) scores 20-35 
were randomized to receive LTPP, fluoxetine monotherapy or their combination for 
a 24 months period. The Wechsler adult intelligence scale version III (WAIS-III) 
was the primary neuropsychological measure.
RESULT: Multilevel mixed model analyses indicated that there were neurocognitive 
changes within and between treatments, with statistically significant 
differences over time (p>.01). LTPP and combined treatment seemed to be more 
efficacious in modifying specific areas of cognition than fluoxetine alone.
LIMITATIONS: Sample very homogenous, threatening external validity.
CONCLUSIONS: LTPP and its combination with fluoxetine demonstrated to be 
effective for specific neurocognitive increasing in patients with moderate 
depression. This study suggests marked differences over time in the 
neurocognitive effects between the three treatment forms compared. Results found 
here may be of clinical relevance for building bridges between pharmacotherapy 
and psychodynamic psychotherapy.

© 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2013.08.036
PMID: 24103853 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1262. Psychiatry Res. 2013 Dec 30;210(3):794-9. doi: 10.1016/j.psychres.2013.09.013. 
Epub 2013 Oct 5.

Superior mentalizing abilities of female patients with schizophrenia.

Abu-Akel A(1), Bo S.

Author information:
(1)School of Psychology, University of Birmingham, Edgbaston, Birmingham B15 
2TT, UK. Electronic address: ama289@bham.ac.uk.

Mentalizing abilities are severely disrupted in patients with schizophrenia, but 
gender-related differences in this domain are virtually unexplored. Given the 
importance of these abilities in understanding psychopathology, social 
functioning and outcome, this study aimed to examine the mentalizing abilities 
of male and female patients with schizophrenia. The cognitive and affective 
mentalizing abilities of self and other of clinically stable male and female 
patients with schizophrenia were analyzed using the abbreviated version of the 
Metacognitive Assessment Scale (MAS-A). Compared to their male counterparts, the 
female patients demonstrated superior overall mentalizing abilities. This 
advantage was also evident when mentalizing about the Self or the Other. When 
examining cognitive versus affective mentalizing, women were significantly 
better in their ability to attribute and understand the affective mental states 
of others. These differences were unrelated to intelligence or psychopathology. 
The superior mentalizing abilities of female patients extend gender-related 
differences in schizophrenia to include social cognition. This suggests that our 
current knowledge of socio-cognitive abilities in schizophrenia is generalizable 
to male but not to female patients. The findings also provide important insights 
to understanding how etiological differences affect social cognition. Awareness 
to such differences has important implications for diagnosis and clinical 
treatment.

© 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2013.09.013
PMID: 24103909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1263. Psychol Sci. 2013 Dec;24(12):2420-8. doi: 10.1177/0956797613493292. Epub 2013 
Oct 8.

On the nature and nurture of intelligence and specific cognitive abilities: the 
more heritable, the more culture dependent.

Kan KJ(1), Wicherts JM, Dolan CV, van der Maas HL.

Author information:
(1)1Department of Biological Psychology, VU University.

To further knowledge concerning the nature and nurture of intelligence, we 
scrutinized how heritability coefficients vary across specific cognitive 
abilities both theoretically and empirically. Data from 23 twin studies 
(combined N = 7,852) showed that (a) in adult samples, culture-loaded subtests 
tend to demonstrate greater heritability coefficients than do culture-reduced 
subtests; and (b) in samples of both adults and children, a subtest's proportion 
of variance shared with general intelligence is a function of its cultural load. 
These findings require an explanation because they do not follow from mainstream 
theories of intelligence. The findings are consistent with our hypothesis that 
heritability coefficients differ across cognitive abilities as a result of 
differences in the contribution of genotype-environment covariance. The 
counterintuitive finding that the most heritable abilities are the most 
culture-dependent abilities sheds a new light on the long-standing 
nature-nurture debate of intelligence.

DOI: 10.1177/0956797613493292
PMID: 24104504 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1264. Eur Arch Psychiatry Clin Neurosci. 2013 Nov;263 Suppl 2:S189-96. doi: 
10.1007/s00406-013-0459-3. Epub 2013 Oct 9.

High-functioning autism spectrum disorder as a basic disorder in adult 
psychiatry and psychotherapy: psychopathological presentation, clinical 
relevance and therapeutic concepts.

Tebartz van Elst L(1), Pick M, Biscaldi M, Fangmeier T, Riedel A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University Medical Center 
Freiburg, Hauptstraße 5, 79104, Freiburg, Germany, 
tebartzvanelst@uniklinik-freiburg.de.

Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is characterized by deficits in social cognition 
and competence, communication, highly circumscribed interests and a strong 
desire for routines. Besides, there are specific abnormalities in perception and 
language. Typical symptoms are already present in early childhood. Traditionally 
autism has been regarded as a severe form of neurodevelopmental disorder which 
goes along with overtly abnormal language, learning difficulties and low IQ in 
the majority of cases. However, over the last decades, it has become clear that 
there are also many patients with high-functioning variants of ASD. These are 
patients with normal language at a superficial level of description and normal 
and sometimes above average intelligence. In high-functioning variants of the 
disease, they may run unrecognized until late in adult life. High-functioning 
ASD is associated with a very high prevalence of comorbid classical psychiatric 
disorders such as depression, anxiety, ADHD, tics, psychotic symptoms or 
emotionally unstable syndromes. In many such cases, there is a causal 
relationship between ASD and the comorbid psychiatric conditions in that the 
specific ASD symptoms result in chronic conflicts, misunderstandings and failure 
in private and vocational relationships. These problems in turn often lead to 
depression, anxiety and sometimes psychosis-like stress reactions. In this 
constellation, ASD has to be regarded as a basic disorder with causal relevance 
for secondary psychiatric syndromes. In this paper, we summarize the classical 
presentation of high-functioning ASD in adult psychiatry and psychotherapy and 
suggest a nosological model to classify different ASD conditions instead. To 
conclude, we outline first treatment concepts in out- and in-patient settings.

DOI: 10.1007/s00406-013-0459-3
PMID: 24105433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1265. Autism Res. 2014 Feb;7(1):40-9. doi: 10.1002/aur.1333. Epub 2013 Sep 17.

Age and sensory processing abnormalities predict declines in encoding and recall 
of temporally manipulated speech in high-functioning adults with ASD.

Mayer JL(1), Heaton PF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Roehampton, London, UK.

While temporal and perceptual processing abnormalities, identified in a number 
of electrophysiological and brain imaging studies of individuals with (ASD), are 
likely to impact on speech perception, surprisingly little is known about the 
behavioral outcomes of such abnormalities. It has been hypothesized that rapid 
temporal processing deficits may be linked to impaired language development 
through interference with acoustic information during speech perception. The 
present study aimed to investigate the impact of temporal changes on encoding 
and recall of speech, and the associated cognitive, clinical, and behavioral 
correlates in adults with ASD. Research carried out with typically developing 
(TD) adults has shown that word recall diminishes as the speed of speech 
increases, and it was predicted that the magnitude of this effect would be far 
greater in those with ASD because of a preexisting rapid temporal processing 
deficit. Nineteen high-functioning adults with ASD, and age- and 
intelligence-matched TD controls performed verbatim recall of temporally 
manipulated sentences. Reduced levels of word recall in response to increases in 
presentation speed were observed, and this effect was greater in the older 
participants in the ASD group than in the control group. This is the first study 
to show that both sensory abnormalities and aging impact on speech encoding in 
ASD. Auditory processing deficits in ASD may be indicative of an association 
with the sensory abnormalities and social and communication impairments 
characterizing the disorder.

© 2013 International Society for Autism Research, Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/aur.1333
PMID: 24106132 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1266. Subst Use Misuse. 2014 Mar;49(4):395-404. doi: 10.3109/10826084.2013.841248. 
Epub 2013 Oct 9.

Are sexes affected differently by ketamine? An exploratory study in ketamine 
users.

Liang HJ(1), Lau CG, Tang KL, Chan F, Ungvari GS, Tang WK.

Author information:
(1)1Department of Psychiatry, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, 
China.

One hundred primary ketamine users and 100 controls were recruited in Hong Kong 
between December 2009 and December 2011. Cognitive assessment included general 
intelligence, working, verbal, and visual memory, and executive functions. A 
Univariate General Linear Model was used to compare cognitive performance 
between the male and female ketamine users and controls. The female users 
appeared to have a higher risk of visual memory impairment than their male 
counterparts. Further studies are warranted to clarify the mechanism of the 
sex-specific effect of ketamine on cognitive functions.

DOI: 10.3109/10826084.2013.841248
PMID: 24106975 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1267. Nurs Stand. 2013 Oct 9-15;28(6):24-5. doi: 10.7748/ns2013.10.28.6.24.s27.

Joined-up thinking.

Trueland J.

In 2001 the Department of Health instructed NHS trusts to develop networks to 
support black and minority ethnic staff. Since then networks have fallen out of 
favour and may have folded. Supporters argue that trusts neglect networks at 
their peril- they are an in valuable source of intelligence about what is 
happening to front line staff and patients.

DOI: 10.7748/ns2013.10.28.6.24.s27
PMID: 24107039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1268. Am Nat. 2013 Nov;182(5):592-610. doi: 10.1086/673253. Epub 2013 Sep 9.

Swarm intelligence: when uncertainty meets conflict.

Conradt L(1), List C, Roper TJ.

Author information:
(1)Center for Adaptive Rationality, Max Planck Institute for Human Development, 
Lentzeallee 94, 14195 Berlin, Germany.

Good decision making is important for the survival and fitness of stakeholders, 
but decisions usually involve uncertainty and conflict. We know surprisingly 
little about profitable decision-making strategies in conflict situations. On 
the one hand, sharing decisions with others can pool information and decrease 
uncertainty (swarm intelligence). On the other hand, sharing decisions can hand 
influence to individuals whose goals conflict. Thus, when should an animal share 
decisions with others? Using a theoretical model, we show that, contrary to 
intuition, decision sharing by animals with conflicting goals often increases 
individual gains as well as decision accuracy. Thus, conflict-far from hampering 
effective decision making-can improve decision outcomes for all stakeholders, as 
long as they share large-scale goals. In contrast, decisions shared by animals 
without conflict were often surprisingly poor. The underlying mechanism is that 
animals with conflicting goals are less correlated in individual choice errors. 
These results provide a strong argument in the interest of all stakeholders for 
not excluding other (e.g., minority) factions from collective decisions. The 
observed benefits of including diverse factions among the decision makers could 
also be relevant to human collective decision making.

DOI: 10.1086/673253
PMID: 24107367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1269. Dermatology. 2013;227(4):311-5. doi: 10.1159/000354607. Epub 2013 Oct 4.

Comorbidities associated with vitiligo: a ten-year retrospective study.

Sheth VM(1), Guo Y, Qureshi AA.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Research Program, Department of Dermatology, Brigham and Women's 
Hospital, Boston, Mass., USA.

BACKGROUND: Vitiligo is a common disorder of depigmentation that has been 
associated with other autoimmune diseases. No recent large-scale data exist on 
the rates of comorbidities associated with vitiligo from the United States 
population.
OBJECTIVES: To identify the prevalence of comorbidities as well as associated 
laboratory abnormalities in vitiligo patients.
METHODS: All medical records dating from January 1, 2000 to June 21, 2011 within 
the Research Patient Data Repository were evaluated retrospectively using a 
novel artificial intelligence-based computer program. A total of 3,280 patients 
carrying the diagnosis of vitiligo were identified using ICD-9 code 709.01. We 
randomly selected 300 patients and validated the diagnosis by manually reviewing 
their medical records. These results were used to create a model that was then 
applied to the larger set yielding 2,441 true vitiligo patients. 1,657 (68%) 
were diagnosed by dermatologists and 784 (32%) by non-dermatologists. We 
identified the prevalence of other comorbid autoimmune conditions by searching 
problem lists of vitiligo patients and collected laboratory data from the first 
available data point in the system for each patient.
RESULTS: Women were more frequently represented (57.6%) than men (42.4%). The 
majority of vitiligo patients were White/Caucasian (56.9%), followed by 
Hispanic/Latino (19.4%). 565 (23%) had one of the following comorbidities: 287 
thyroid-related, 186 psoriasis, 72 rheumatoid arthritis, 59 alopecia areata, 55 
inflammatory bowel disease, 53 systemic lupus and 20 type I diabetes mellitus. 
41% had elevated anti-nuclear antibody levels. Almost half of the patients 
tested had elevated thyroid peroxidase antibodies. Over 50% of the patients 
tested had low or insufficient levels of 25-OH vitamin D.
CONCLUSION: We found a high prevalence of comorbidities among individuals with 
vitiligo presenting to teaching hospitals in Boston, Mass. Comorbid autoimmune 
conditions were seen in 23% of vitiligo patients, thyroid disorders and 
psoriasis being the most common. Screening for these conditions, especially 
thyroid disorders, should be considered in vitiligo patients.

DOI: 10.1159/000354607
PMID: 24107643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1270. Stereotact Funct Neurosurg. 2013;91(6):364-72. doi: 10.1159/000348278. Epub 2013 
Oct 9.

Treatment of intractable anorexia nervosa with inactivation of the nucleus 
accumbens using stereotactic surgery.

Wang J(1), Chang C, Geng N, Wang X, Gao G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery and Institute for Functional Brain Disorders, 
Tangdu Hospital, Fourth Military Medical University, Xi'an, PR China.

Comment in
    Stereotact Funct Neurosurg. 2013;91(6):373.

BACKGROUND: For 30% of anorexia nervosa (AN) patients, conventional treatments 
are unsuccessful; this is termed intractable AN.
OBJECTIVES: This study investigates whether ablation of the nucleus accumbens 
(NAc) using stereotactic surgery can arouse the physiological drive to eat in 
intractable AN patients.
METHODS: Eight patients with intractable AN were included: 6 patients underwent 
bilateral stereotactic radio frequency ablation in the NAc and 2 patients 
received bilateral NAc deep brain stimulation (DBS). Observations were made for 
basic vital signs, body mass index (BMI), menstruation, depression, anxiety, 
obsessive-compulsive disorder, personality, intelligence, memory, quality of 
life, social functioning, as well as complications and adverse events associated 
with the treatment.
RESULTS: Basic vital signs, BMI and menstruation had recovered 1 year after the 
operation. Depression, anxiety and obsessive-compulsive disorder were improved 1 
year postoperatively. There were changes in personality scores for psychoticism, 
neuroticism and lie tendencies that seemed to be helpful to the recovery from 
AN. Intelligence and memory improved after 6 months postoperatively. Quality of 
life and social functioning were dramatically improved at 1 year 
postoperatively.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of this study reveal that ablation of the NAc can 
increase the AN patients' physiological drive to eat. Furthermore, there were no 
severe and/or life-influencing complications associated with the treatment.

Copyright © 2013 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000348278
PMID: 24108066 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1271. Autism Res. 2013 Dec;6(6):631-41. doi: 10.1002/aur.1331. Epub 2013 Sep 23.

The development of the Multidimensional Social Competence Scale: a standardized 
measure of social competence in autism spectrum disorders.

Yager J(1), Iarocci G.

Author information:
(1)Autism and Developmental Disorders Lab, Simon Fraser University, Burnaby, BC, 
Canada, V5A1S6.

Autism and its related disorders are commonly described as lying along a 
continuum that ranges in severity and are collectively referred to as autism 
spectrum disorders (ASDs). Although all individuals with ASD meet the social 
impairment diagnostic criteria outlined in the DSM-IV-TR, they do not present 
with the same social difficulties. The variability in the expression and 
severity of social competence is particularly evident among the group of 
individuals with "high-functioning" ASD who appear to have difficulty applying 
their average to above average intelligence in a social context. There is a 
striking paucity of empirical research investigating individual differences in 
social functioning among individuals with high-functioning ASD. It is possible 
that more detailed investigations of social competence have been impeded by the 
lack of standardized measures available to assess the nature and severity of 
social impairment. The aim of the current study was to develop and evaluate a 
parent rating scale capable of assessing individual differences in social 
competence (i.e. strengths and challenges) among adolescents with ASD: the 
Multidimensional Social Competence Scale (MSCS). Results from confirmatory 
factor analyses supported the hypothesized multidimensional factor structure of 
the MSCS. Seven relatively distinct domains of social competence were identified 
including social motivation, social inferencing, demonstrating empathic concern, 
social knowledge, verbal conversation skills, nonverbal sending skills, and 
emotion regulation. Psychometric evidence provided preliminary support for the 
reliability and validity of the scale. Possible applications of this promising 
new parent rating scale in both research and clinical settings are discussed.

© 2013 International Society for Autism Research, Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/aur.1331
PMID: 24108618 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1272. Springerplus. 2013 Oct 1;2:495. doi: 10.1186/2193-1801-2-495. eCollection 2013.

The dilemma of the symbols: analogies between philosophy, biology and artificial 
life.

Spadaro S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Philosophy, Sapienza University of Rome, via Carlo Fea n.2, 
00161 Rome, Italy.

This article analyzes some analogies going from Artificial Life questions about 
the symbol-matter connection to Artificial Intelligence questions about 
symbol-grounding. It focuses on the notion of the interpretability of syntax and 
how the symbols are integrated in a unity ("binding problem"). Utilizing the DNA 
code as a model, this paper discusses how syntactic features could be defined as 
high-grade characteristics of the non syntactic relations in a material-dynamic 
structure, by using an emergentist approach. This topic furnishes the ground for 
a confutation of J. Searle's statement that syntax is observer-relative, as he 
wrote in his book "Mind: A Brief Introduction". Moreover the evolving discussion 
also modifies the classic symbol-processing doctrine in the mind which Searle 
attacks as a strong AL argument, that life could be implemented in a 
computational mode. Lastly, this paper furnishes a new way of support for the 
autonomous systems thesis in Artificial Life and Artificial Intelligence, using, 
inter alia, the "adaptive resonance theory" (ART).

DOI: 10.1186/2193-1801-2-495
PMCID: PMC3793079
PMID: 24109563


1273. Annu Int Conf IEEE Eng Med Biol Soc. 2013;2013:5315-8. doi: 
10.1109/EMBC.2013.6610749.

Ratbot automatic navigation by electrical reward stimulation based on distance 
measurement in unknown environments.

Gao L, Sun C, Zhang C, Zheng N, Chen W, Zheng X.

Traditional automatic navigation methods for bio-robots are constrained to 
configured environments and thus can't be applied to tasks in unknown 
environments. With no consideration of bio-robot's own innate living ability and 
treating bio-robots in the same way as mechanical robots, those methods neglect 
the intelligence behavior of animals. This paper proposes a novel ratbot 
automatic navigation method in unknown environments using only reward 
stimulation and distance measurement. By utilizing rat's habit of thigmotaxis 
and its reward-seeking behavior, this method is able to incorporate rat's 
intrinsic intelligence of obstacle avoidance and path searching into navigation. 
Experiment results show that this method works robustly and can successfully 
navigate the ratbot to a target in the unknown environment. This work might put 
a solid base for application of ratbots and also has significant implication of 
automatic navigation for other bio-robots as well.

DOI: 10.1109/EMBC.2013.6610749
PMID: 24110936 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1274. Annu Int Conf IEEE Eng Med Biol Soc. 2013;2013:6901-4. doi: 
10.1109/EMBC.2013.6611144.

Bio-robots automatic navigation with graded electric reward stimulation based on 
Reinforcement Learning.

Zhang C, Sun C, Gao L, Zheng N, Chen W, Zheng X.

Bio-robots based on brain computer interface (BCI) suffer from the lack of 
considering the characteristic of the animals in navigation. This paper proposed 
a new method for bio-robots' automatic navigation combining the reward 
generating algorithm base on Reinforcement Learning (RL) with the learning 
intelligence of animals together. Given the graded electrical reward, the animal 
e.g. the rat, intends to seek the maximum reward while exploring an unknown 
environment. Since the rat has excellent spatial recognition, the rat-robot and 
the RL algorithm can convergent to an optimal route by co-learning. This work 
has significant inspiration for the practical development of bio-robots' 
navigation with hybrid intelligence.

DOI: 10.1109/EMBC.2013.6611144
PMID: 24111331 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1275. Exp Brain Res. 2014 Jan;232(1):113-9. doi: 10.1007/s00221-013-3724-9. Epub 2013 
Oct 11.

Increased response conflict in recreational cocaine polydrug users.

Sellaro R(1), Hommel B, Colzato LS.

Author information:
(1)Leiden Institute for Brain and Cognition, Leiden University, Leiden, The 
Netherlands, r.sellaro@fsw.leidenuniv.nl.

Recent studies suggest that recreational use of cocaine is associated with 
significant impairments in the same cognitive control functions that are 
affected by chronic use. Here we tested whether recreational cocaine use can 
impact the emergence and resolution of response conflict in conflict-inducing 
tasks. Recreational cocaine polydrug users (n = 17) and cocaine-free controls (n 
= 17), matched for sex, age, intelligence, and alcohol consumption, performed a 
Simon task-which is known to induce response conflict. Recreational users showed 
a larger Simon effect, indicating that they had more difficulty resolving 
stimulus-induced response conflict. This finding is consistent with the recent 
literature showing that even small doses of cocaine are sufficient to compromise 
key cognitive control functions.

DOI: 10.1007/s00221-013-3724-9
PMID: 24114510 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1276. PLoS One. 2013 Oct 8;8(10):e77444. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0077444. 
eCollection 2013.

Paternal age and general cognitive ability-a cross sectional study of Danish 
male conscripts.

McGrath J(1), Mortensen PB, Pedersen CB, Ehrenstein V, Petersen L.

Author information:
(1)Queensland Brain Institute, The University of Queensland, St. Lucia, 
Australia ; Queensland Centre for Mental Health Research, The Park Centre for 
Mental Health, Richlands, Australia.

OBJECTIVES: Offspring of older men have impaired cognitive ability as children, 
but it is unclear if this impairment persists into adulthood. The main objective 
of this study was to explore the association between paternal age at offspring 
birth and general cognitive ability as young adults.
DESIGN: Population-based cross-sectional study with prospectively collected data 
on obstetric factors and parental education.
SETTING: Nationwide Danish sample.
PARTICIPANTS: Male conscripts (n = 169,009).
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY OUTCOME MEASURES: General cognitive ability as assessed by 
the Børge Priens test score, an intelligence test with components related to 
logical, verbal, numerical and spatial reasoning.
RESULTS: We observed an inverse U-shaped association between paternal age and 
general cognitive ability (slightly lower test scores in the offspring of 
fathers aged less than 25 years and older than 40 years, compared with fathers 
aged 25 to 29 years). However, after adjustment for maternal age, parental 
education and birth order the shape of the association changed. Offspring of 
fathers younger than 20 still showed slightly lower cognitive ability (-1.11 
(95% CI -1.68 to -0.54)), but no significant impairments were identified in the 
men whose fathers were older than 29 years at the time of their birth (e.g. the 
mean difference in test score in the offspring of fathers aged 40 to 44 years 
were -0.03 [95% CI (-0.27 to 0.20)] compared with fathers aged 25 to 29 years).
CONCLUSIONS: We did not find that the offspring of older fathers had impaired 
cognitive ability as young adults. Whereas, we found a tendency that the 
offspring of teen fathers have lower cognitive ability. Thus, our results 
suggest that any potentially deleterious effects of older fathers on general 
cognitive ability as young adults may be counter-balanced by other potentially 
beneficial factors.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0077444
PMCID: PMC3792927
PMID: 24116230 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


1277. Epilepsia. 2013 Nov;54(11):e155-8. doi: 10.1111/epi.12387. Epub 2013 Oct 10.

Bilateral stereotactic radiofrequency amygdalohippocampectomy for a patient with 
bilateral temporal lobe epilepsy.

Luo H(1), Zhao Q, Tian Z, Wu Z, Wang F, Lin H, Yin F, Zhao H, Xiao X, Yu X, Wang 
H, Zhao H, Cai C.

Author information:
(1)Neurosurgery Department, Navy General Hospital, Beijing, China.

Comment in
    Epilepsia. 2014 Apr;55(4):623.

To search for a method for treatment of bilateral temporal lobe epilepsy (BTLE), 
we report one patient with BTLE experienced bilateral stereotactic 
radiofrequency amygdalohippocampectomy (SAHE). Neuropsychological examinations 
were performed before and 5 days, and 6, 18, and 48 months after operation. No 
seizure occurred in the follow-up time, and no long-term memory and intelligence 
deficits were found except for a transient decline of the scores immediately 
after operation. Because severe damage of memory could be caused by bilateral 
resection surgery, bilateral SAHE should be considered as a possible approach 
for the treatment of BTLE. However, further studies with accumulation of cases 
are needed, especially in the detailed assessment of neuropsychological 
function.

Wiley Periodicals, Inc. © 2013 International League Against Epilepsy.

DOI: 10.1111/epi.12387
PMID: 24116395 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1278. Dev Med Child Neurol. 2014 Feb;56(2):148-56. doi: 10.1111/dmcn.12282. Epub 2013 
Oct 1.

A cohort study on full breastfeeding and child neuropsychological development: 
the role of maternal social, psychological, and nutritional factors.

Julvez J(1), Guxens M, Carsin AE, Forns J, Mendez M, Turner MC, Sunyer J.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Research in Environmental Epidemiology (CREAL), Barcelona, Spain; 
Hospital del Mar Research Institute (IMIM), Barcelona, Spain; CIBER 
Epidemiologia y Salud Pública (CIBERESP), Barcelona, Spain.

Comment in
    Dev Med Child Neurol. 2014 Feb;56(2):101-2.

AIM: This study investigated whether duration of full breastfeeding is 
associated with child neuropsychological development and whether this 
association is explained by social, psychological, and nutritional factors 
within families.
METHOD: Participants in this study were a population-based birth cohort in the 
city of Sabadell (Catalonia, Spain). Females were recruited during the first 
trimester of pregnancy between July 2004 and July 2006. Information about 
parental characteristics and breastfeeding was obtained through questionnaires. 
Full breastfeeding was categorized as never, short term (≤4mo), long term 
(4-6mo), or very long term (>6mo). A trained psychologist assessed the 
neuropsychological development of children at 4 years of age (n=434) using the 
McCarthy Scales of Children's Abilities (MSCA).
RESULTS: Full breastfeeding showed an independent association with child general 
MSCA scores after adjusting for a range of social, psychological, and 
nutritional factors (>6mo, coefficient=7.4 [95% confidence interval=2.8-12.0], 
p=0.011). Maternal social class, education level, and IQ were also associated 
with child neuropsychological scores, but did not explain breastfeeding 
associations. Omega-3 (n3) fatty acid levels were not associated with child 
neuropsychological scores.
INTERPRETATION: Very long-term full breastfeeding was independently associated 
with neuropsychological functions of children at 4 years of age. Maternal 
indicators of intelligence, psychopathology, and colostrum n3 fatty acids did 
not explain this association.

© 2013 Mac Keith Press.

DOI: 10.1111/dmcn.12282
PMID: 24116864 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1279. Acta Paediatr. 2014 Jan;103(1):70-80. doi: 10.1111/apa.12449. Epub 2013 Nov 9.

Early lexical development and risk of verbal and nonverbal cognitive delay at 
school age.

Ghassabian A(1), Rescorla L, Henrichs J, Jaddoe VW, Verhulst FC, Tiemeier H.

Author information:
(1)The Generation R Study, Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, the Netherlands; 
Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry/Psychology, Erasmus Medical 
Center-Sophia Children's Hospital, Rotterdam, the Netherlands.

AIM: To characterise the relationship between preschool lexical delay and 
language comprehension and nonverbal intelligence at school age.
METHODS: The mothers of 2724 children completed the MacArthur Communicative 
Development Inventory when their child reached 1.5 years and the Language 
Development Survey and the Parent Report of Children's Ability at 2.5 years. 
When the children were 6 years old, we assessed vocabulary comprehension and 
nonverbal intelligence using Dutch batteries for language and nonverbal 
intelligence.
RESULTS: Demographic factors explained 9.9% of the variance in vocabulary 
comprehension and 8.7% of the variance in nonverbal intelligence at 6 years. 
Male gender, low maternal education and non-Western ethnic background predicted 
vocabulary comprehension delay at 6 years. Lexical development at 1.5 and 
2.5 years explained only 3.8% of the variance in language comprehension at the 
age of six. Late onset expressive vocabulary delay increased the risk of 
language comprehension and nonverbal intelligence delay at 6 years (OR=2.31, 95% 
CI: 1.62-3.29 and OR=1.74, 95% CI: 1.17-2.58, respectively).
CONCLUSION: Sociodemographic factors are important predictors of delays in 
language and nonverbal abilities as children enter school. In contrast, early 
expressive lexical delays, in particular before the age of two, have limited 
predictive power for language delays at the age of six.

©2013 Foundation Acta Paediatrica. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/apa.12449
PMID: 24117532 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1280. Acta Paediatr. 2014 Jan;103(1):62-9. doi: 10.1111/apa.12441. Epub 2013 Nov 15.

The importance of language in the home for school-age children with permanent 
hearing loss.

Vohr BR(1), Topol D, Watson V, St Pierre L, Tucker R.

Author information:
(1)Women and Infants Hospital, The Alpert Medical School of Brown University, 
Providence, RI, USA.

AIM: To determine the characteristics of the natural spoken language environment 
associated with better language skills at school age of children with permanent 
hearing loss (HL) screened in a newborn hearing screen programme.
METHODS: A language processor recorded language environment including child 
vocalisations (CVs), conversational turns (CTs), adult word count (AWC), 
percentage of language and percentage of silence in 23 children with HL and 41 
hearing controls. Relationships of language environment scores with Reynell 
language scores were analysed.
RESULTS: Children with HL had significantly lower Reynell comprehension scores 
(15-25 points; p = 0.0001) and expressive scores (7-12 points; NS) than hearing 
children. In regression analyses for the children with HL, after adjusting for 
age of entry to early intervention and stay in a NICU, every increase in ten 
percentage points of language in the home was associated with 7.2 points higher 
comprehension score (p = 0.027) and 9.99 points higher expressive score 
(p = 0.006). After adjusting for nonverbal intelligence, similar independent 
effects of the language environment on both comprehension (p = 0.027) and 
expressive scores (p = 0.006) were identified.
CONCLUSION: A rich language environment in the home is associated with better 
language abilities, which are necessary for academic success for children with 
permanent HL at school age.

©2013 Foundation Acta Paediatrica. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/apa.12441
PMID: 24117984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1281. Int J Nurs Pract. 2014 Dec;20(6):588-96. doi: 10.1111/ijn.12204. Epub 2013 Oct 
11.

Relationship between self-compassion and emotional intelligence in nursing 
students.

Şenyuva E(1), Kaya H, Işik B, Bodur G.

Author information:
(1)Nursing Education Department, Istanbul University Florence Nightingale 
Nursing Faculty, İstanbul, Turkey.

Nursing focuses on meeting physical, social and emotional health-care needs of 
individuals, families and society. In health care, nurses directly communicate 
with patients and try to empathize with them. Nurses give care under emotionally 
intense conditions where the individual undergoes pain and distress. Research is 
aimed at analysing the correlation of self-compassion and emotional intelligence 
of nursing students. The population of the research consisted of all the 
undergraduate students (571 students) of the 2010-2011 fall semester of the 
department of nursing. An information form, Self-compassion Scale and Emotional 
Intelligence Assessment Scale were utilized to obtain data for the research. For 
the assessment of the findings of research, Statistical Package for Social 
Sciences 16.0 for Windows was utilized for statistical analysis. Results 
indicated that there is a correlation between self-compassion and emotional 
intelligence and that emotional intelligence, which includes the individual 
perceiving one's emotions and using the knowledge one gained from them to 
function while directing thoughts, actions and professional applications, has 
positive contributions to the features of nurses with developed self-compassion.

© 2013 Wiley Publishing Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ijn.12204
PMID: 24118163 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1282. J Clin Nurs. 2013 Nov;22(21-22):3192-202. doi: 10.1111/jocn.12386.

Effect of spiritual intelligence, emotional intelligence, psychological 
ownership and burnout on caring behaviour of nurses: a cross-sectional study.

Kaur D(1), Sambasivan M, Kumar N.

Author information:
(1)Asia Pacific University of Technology & Innovation (A.P.U), Bukit Jalil, 
Malaysia.

Comment in
    Evid Based Nurs. 2014 Oct;17(4):121.

AIMS AND OBJECTIVES: To propose a model of prediction of caring behaviour among 
nurses that includes spiritual intelligence, emotional intelligence, 
psychological ownership and burnout.
BACKGROUND: Caring behaviour of nurses contributes to the patients' 
satisfaction, well-being and subsequently to the performance of the healthcare 
organisations. This behaviour is influenced by physiological, psychological, 
sociocultural, developmental and spiritual factors.
DESIGN: A cross-sectional survey was used, and data were analysed using 
descriptive statistics and structural equation modelling.
METHODS: Data were collected between July-August 2011. A sample of 550 nurses in 
practice from seven public hospitals in and around Kuala Lumpur (Malaysia) 
completed the questionnaire that captured five constructs. Besides nurses, 348 
patients from seven hospitals participated in the study and recorded their 
overall satisfaction with the hospital and the services provided by the nurses. 
Data were analysed using structural equation modelling (SEM).
RESULTS: The key findings are: (1) spiritual intelligence influences emotional 
intelligence and psychological ownership, (2) emotional intelligence influences 
psychological ownership, burnout and caring behaviour of nurses, (3) 
psychological ownership influences burnout and caring behaviour of nurses, (4) 
burnout influences caring behaviour of nurses, (5) psychological ownership 
mediates the relationship between spiritual intelligence and caring behaviour 
and between emotional intelligence and caring behaviour of nurses and (6) 
burnout mediates the relationship between spiritual intelligence and caring 
behaviour and between psychological ownership and caring behaviour of nurses.
CONCLUSIONS: Identifying the factors that affect caring behaviour of nurses is 
critical to improving the quality of patient care. Spiritual intelligence, 
emotional intelligence, psychological ownership and burnout of nurses play a 
significant role in effecting caring behaviour of nurses.
RELEVANCE TO CLINICAL PRACTICE: Healthcare providers must consider the 
relationships between these factors in their continuing care and incorporation 
of these in the nursing curricula and training.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jocn.12386
PMID: 24118522 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1283. Rev Neurol (Paris). 2013 Dec;169(12):944-9. doi: 10.1016/j.neurol.2013.06.002. 
Epub 2013 Oct 11.

Cognitive profile in Wilson's disease: a case series of 31 patients.

Wenisch E(1), De Tassigny A, Trocello JM, Beretti J, Girardot-Tinant N, Woimant 
F.

Author information:
(1)French national reference centre for Wilson's disease, neurology department, 
Lariboisière hospital, 2, rue Ambroise-Paré, 75010 Paris cedex 10, France. 
Electronic address: emilie.wenisch@lrb.aphp.fr.

BACKGROUND: Wilson's disease (WD) is a rare autosomal recessive disorder of 
copper metabolism. If untreated, WD, which is initially a liver disease, can 
turn into a multi-systemic disease with neurological involvement. Very few 
studies have described cognitive impairment in WD. The aim of this study is to 
report the cognitive profile of 31 treated WD patients.
METHODS: Patients were classed into two groups using the Unified Wilson Disease 
Rating Scale (UWDRS): WD patients without neurological signs (WD-N(-)) (n=13), 
and WD patients with neurological signs (WD-N(+)) (n=18). The patients 
participated in a neuropsychological assessment evaluating memory, executive 
function and visuo-spatial abilities.
RESULTS: Both groups performed well for verbal intelligence and episodic memory 
skills. However, the majority of these patients exhibited altered performance 
for at least one cognitive test, particularly in the executive domain. The 
WD-N(+) group performed less well than the WD-N(-) group on cognitive tests 
involving rapid motor function, abstract thinking, working memory and top-down 
inhibitory control.
CONCLUSIONS: Cognitive impairment in treated WD patients essentially affects 
executive function involving fronto-striatal circuits. Verbal intelligence and 
episodic memory abilities seem to be remarkably preserved. Neuropsychological 
assessment is a valuable tool to evaluate the presence and the consequences of 
these cognitive impairments in WD patients with or without neurological signs in 
the course of this chronic disease.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neurol.2013.06.002
PMID: 24120329 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1284. Arch Med Res. 2013 Oct;44(7):555-61. doi: 10.1016/j.arcmed.2013.09.012. Epub 
2013 Oct 10.

Iodine deficiency in Egyptian autistic children and their mothers: relation to 
disease severity.

Hamza RT(1), Hewedi DH, Sallam MT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Faculty of Medicine, Ain Shams University, Cairo, 
Egypt. Electronic address: rashatarif_2000@hotmail.com.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Because autism may be a disease of early fetal brain 
development, maternal hypothyroxinemia (HT) in early pregnancy secondary to 
iodine deficiency (ID) may be related to etiology of autism. The aim of the 
study was to assess the iodine nutritional status in Egyptian autistic children 
and their mothers and its relationship with disease characteristics.
METHODS: Fifty autistic children and their mothers were studied in comparison to 
50 controls. All subjects were subjected to clinical evaluation, measurement of 
urinary iodine (UI), free triiodothyronine (fT3), free tetraiodothyronine (fT4) 
and thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) along with measurement of thyroid volume 
(TV). In addition, electroencephalography (EEG) and intelligence quotient (IQ) 
assessment were done for all autistic children.
RESULTS: Of autistic children and their mothers, 54% and 58%, respectively, were 
iodine deficient. None of the control children or their mothers was iodine 
deficient. UI was lower among autistic patients (p <0.001) and their mothers (p 
<0.001). Childhood Autism Rating Scale (CARS) score correlated negatively with 
UI (r = -0.94, p <0.001). Positive correlations were detected between autistic 
patients and their mothers regarding UI (r = 0.88, p <0.001), fT3 (r = 0.79, p = 
0.03), fT4 (r = 0.91, p <0.001) and TSH (r = 0.69, p = 0.04). Autism had a 
significant risk for association with each of low UI (OR: 9.5, 95% CI: 
2.15-33.8, p = 0.02) and intake of noniodized salt (OR: 6.82, 95% CI = 
1.36-34.27, p = 0.031).
CONCLUSIONS: ID is prevalent in Egyptian autistic children and their mothers and 
was inversely related to disease severity and could be related to its etiology.

Copyright © 2013 IMSS. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arcmed.2013.09.012
PMID: 24120386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1285. Eur J Public Health. 2014 Oct;24(5):850-6. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/ckt158. Epub 2013 
Oct 11.

In search for a public health leadership competency framework to support 
leadership curriculum-a consensus study.

Czabanowska K(1), Smith T(2), Könings KD(3), Sumskas L(4), Otok R(5), 
Bjegovic-Mikanovic V(6), Brand H(7); Leaders for European Public Health.

Author information:
(1)1 Department of International Health, CAPHRI, Faculty of Health, Medicine and 
Life Sciences, Maastricht University, Maastricht, The Netherlands 
kasia.czabanowska@maastrichtuniversity.nl.
(2)2 Centre for Leadership in Health and Social Care, Sheffield Hallam 
University, Sheffield, UK.
(3)3 Department of Educational Development and Research, Faculty of Health, 
Medicine and Life Sciences, Maastricht University, Maastricht, The Netherlands 4 
Graduate School of Health Professions Education, Maastricht University, 
Maastricht, The Netherlands.
(4)5 Department of Preventive Medicine, Institute of Health Research, Lithuanian 
University of Health Sciences, Kaunas, Lithuania.
(5)6 The Association of Schools of Public Health in the European Region 
(ASPHER), Brussels, Belgium.
(6)7 Faculty of Medicine, Centre School of Public Health and Management, 
University of Belgrade, Belgrade, Serbia.
(7)1 Department of International Health, CAPHRI, Faculty of Health, Medicine and 
Life Sciences, Maastricht University, Maastricht, The Netherlands.

Comment in
    Eur J Public Health. 2014 Oct;24(5):704-5.

BACKGROUND: Competency-based education is increasingly popular, especially in 
the area of continuing professional development. Many competency frameworks have 
been developed; however, few address leadership competencies for European public 
health professionals. The aim of this study was to develop a public health 
leadership competency framework to inform a leadership curriculum for public 
health professionals. The framework was developed as part of the Leaders for 
European Public Health project-supported by the EU Lifelong Learning Programme.
METHODS: The study was carried out in three phases: a literature review, 
consensus development panel and Delphi survey. The public health leadership 
competency framework was initially developed from a literature review. A 
preliminary list of competencies was submitted to a panel of experts. Two 
consensus development panels were held to evaluate and make changes to the 
initial draft competency framework. Then two rounds of a Delphi survey were 
carried out in an effort to reach consensus. Both surveys were presented through 
Survey Monkey to members of the Association of the Schools of Public Health in 
the European Region Working Group on Innovation in Public Health Teaching and 
Education.
RESULTS: The framework was developed consisting of 52 competencies organized 
into eight domains: Systems Thinking; Political Leadership; Collaborative 
Leadership: Building and Leading Interdisciplinary Teams; Leadership and 
Communication; Leading Change; Emotional Intelligence and Leadership in 
Team-based Organizations; Leadership, Organizational Learning and Development 
and Ethics and Professionalism.
CONCLUSION: The framework can serve as a useful tool in identifying gaps in 
knowledge and skills, and shaping competency-based continuing professional 
development leadership curricula for public health professionals in Europe.

© The Author 2013. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
European Public Health Association. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/ckt158
PMID: 24121098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1286. Nanotechnology. 2013 Nov 15;24(45):452002. doi: 10.1088/0957-4484/24/45/452002. 
Epub 2013 Oct 11.

Artificial intelligence in nanotechnology.

Sacha GM(1), Varona P.

Author information:
(1)Grupo de Neurocomputación Biológica. Escuela Politécnica Superior, 
Universidad Autónoma de Madrid, Cantoblanco, Madrid, E-28049, Spain.

Comment in
    Nanotechnology. 2013 Nov 15;24(45):450201.

During the last decade there has been increasing use of artificial intelligence 
tools in nanotechnology research. In this paper we review some of these efforts 
in the context of interpreting scanning probe microscopy, the study of 
biological nanosystems, the classification of material properties at the 
nanoscale, theoretical approaches and simulations in nanoscience, and generally 
in the design of nanodevices. Current trends and future perspectives in the 
development of nanocomputing hardware that can boost 
artificial-intelligence-based applications are also discussed. Convergence 
between artificial intelligence and nanotechnology can shape the path for many 
technological developments in the field of information sciences that will rely 
on new computer architectures and data representations, hybrid technologies that 
use biological entities and nanotechnological devices, bioengineering, 
neuroscience and a large variety of related disciplines.

DOI: 10.1088/0957-4484/24/45/452002
PMID: 24121558 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1287. Contemp Clin Dent. 2013 Jul;4(3):363-5. doi: 10.4103/0976-237X.118346.

Clinical spectrum of Silver - Russell syndrome.

Varma SN(1), Varma BR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthodontics and Dentofacial Orthopaedics, Amrita School of 
Dentistry, Kochi, Kerala, India.

Silver - Russell syndrome is a clinically and genetically heterogenous condition 
characterized by severe intrauterine and postnatal growth retardation, 
craniofacial disproportion and normal intelligence downward curvature of the 
corner of the mouth, syndactyly and webbed fingers. Diagnosis of Silver - 
Russell syndrome remains clinical; no definite etiology or specific tests have 
been established. In the recent years, it has been shown that more than 38% of 
patients have hypomethylation in the imprinting control region 1 of 11p15 and 
one-tenth of patients carry a maternal uniparental disomy of chromosome seven. 
The pathophysiological mechanisms resulting in the Silver - Russell phenotype 
remain unknown despite the recent progress in deciphering the molecular defects 
associated with this condition. This case report describes the clinical features 
of Silver - Russell syndrome in a father and daughter.

DOI: 10.4103/0976-237X.118346
PMCID: PMC3793561
PMID: 24124306

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None declared.


1288. Psicothema. 2013;25(4):440-5. doi: 10.7334/psicothema2012.357.

Theory of mind and language comprehension in schizophrenia.

Gavilán Ibáñez JM(1), García-Albea Ristol JE.

Author information:
(1)Research Center for Behavior Assessment (CRAMC), Universitat Rovira i 
Virgili.

BACKGROUND: Theory of mind (ToM) is the natural ability to attribute/infer 
mental states about ourselves and others. The study of the limits of this 
capacity in autism-spectrum disorders has been projected more recently to the 
case of schizophrenia.
METHOD: We review the studies on ToM deficiency in schizophrenia, based on the 
link observed by Chris Frith between psychotic symptoms and mentalizing 
anomalies, with particular attention to the implications of ToM in linguistic 
communication in the field of figurative language comprehension.
RESULTS: The data support a connection between ToM deficits and psychotic 
symptoms. In schizophrenia, the deficit in ToM appears to be specific and not 
dependent on more general cognitive abilities, and according to the evidence 
examined, it resembles a trait more than a state condition. The analysis of 
results shows that anomalies in ToM have projections on pragmatic aspects of 
language comprehension.
CONCLUSIONS: ToM deficits showed by schizophrenic patients are especially linked 
to difficulties in understanding figurative language, beyond the influence of 
intelligence and executive functions.

DOI: 10.7334/psicothema2012.357
PMID: 24124775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1289. Neurosci Biobehav Rev. 2014 Jul;44:124-41. doi: 10.1016/j.neubiorev.2013.09.015. 
Epub 2013 Oct 12.

EEG-neurofeedback for optimising performance. I: a review of cognitive and 
affective outcome in healthy participants.

Gruzelier JH(1).

Author information:
(1)Goldsmiths, University of London, UK. Electronic address: 
jgruzelier@gold.ac.uk.

A re-emergence of research on EEG-neurofeedback followed controlled evidence of 
clinical benefits and validation of cognitive/affective gains in healthy 
participants including correlations in support of feedback learning mediating 
outcome. Controlled studies with healthy and elderly participants, which have 
increased exponentially, are reviewed including protocols from the clinic: 
sensory-motor rhythm, beta1 and alpha/theta ratios, down-training theta maxima, 
and from neuroscience: upper-alpha, theta, gamma, alpha desynchronisation. 
Outcome gains include sustained attention, orienting and executive attention, 
the P300b, memory, spatial rotation, RT, complex psychomotor skills, implicit 
procedural memory, recognition memory, perceptual binding, intelligence, mood 
and well-being. Twenty-three of the controlled studies report neurofeedback 
learning indices along with beneficial outcomes, of which eight report 
correlations in support of a meditation link, results which will be supplemented 
by further creativity and the performing arts evidence in Part II. Validity 
evidence from optimal performance studies represents an advance for the 
neurofeedback field demonstrating that cross fertilisation between clinical and 
optimal performance domains will be fruitful. Theoretical and methodological 
issues are outlined further in Part III.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neubiorev.2013.09.015
PMID: 24125857 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1290. Reprod Biomed Online. 2014 Jan;28(1):54-63. doi: 10.1016/j.rbmo.2013.07.013. 
Epub 2013 Aug 27.

Neonatal and neurodevelopmental outcome of children aged 3-10 years born 
following assisted oocyte activation.

Vanden Meerschaut F(1), D'Haeseleer E(2), Gysels H(3), Thienpont Y(3), Dewitte 
G(4), Heindryckx B(5), Oostra A(4), Roeyers H(3), Van Lierde K(2), De Sutter 
P(5).

Author information:
(1)Department for Reproductive Medicine, University Hospital Ghent, De Pintelaan 
185-1P4, 9000 Ghent, Belgium. Electronic address: 
Frauke.VandenMeerschaut@UGent.be.
(2)Department of Otorhinolaryngology and Head and Neck Surgery, Speech and 
Language Pathology, University Hospital Ghent, De Pintelaan 185-2P2, 9000 Ghent, 
Belgium.
(3)Department of Experimental Clinical and Health Psychology, Research Group 
Developmental Disorders, Ghent University, Henri Dunantlaan 2, 9000 Ghent, 
Belgium.
(4)Centre for Developmental Disorders, De Pintelaan 185-2K5, 9000 Ghent, 
Belgium.
(5)Department for Reproductive Medicine, University Hospital Ghent, De Pintelaan 
185-1P4, 9000 Ghent, Belgium.

Assisted oocyte activation (AOA) using a calcium ionophore has been used for 
more than a decade following intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) 
fertilization failure. However, since AOA does not mimic precisely the 
physiological fertilization process, concerns exist about its use in human 
assisted reproduction. This study assessed the neonatal and neurodevelopmental 
outcome of children aged ≥ 3 years who had been born following AOA in our 
centre. Twenty-one children participated in the study (81% response rate; mean 
age 63.6 ± 21.07 months). Neonatal data were collected via questionnaires. 
Neurodevelopmental outcome was tested using the Reynell Developmental Language 
Scales or Clinical Evaluation of Language Fundamentals, Wechsler Preschool and 
Primary Scale of Intelligence or Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children, and 
the Movement Assessment Battery for Children III. Behaviour was scored by the 
Social Communication Questionnaire, the Child Behaviour Checklist and the 
Teachers Report Form. For all tests and questionnaires, the mean outcomes lay 
within the expected ranges. These are first data on the developmental outcome of 
AOA children. The high response rate and the robustness of the tests support the 
data, which are reassuring although still considered preliminary. Therefore, AOA 
should still be performed only in selected couples.

Copyright © 2013 Reproductive Healthcare Ltd. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rbmo.2013.07.013
PMID: 24125944 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1291. Pediatr Neonatol. 2014 Apr;55(2):114-9. doi: 10.1016/j.pedneo.2013.08.001. Epub 
2013 Oct 11.

The growth of very-low-birth-weight infants at 5 years old in Taiwan.

Wang PW(1), Fang LJ(2), Tsou KI(3); Taiwan Infant Developmental Collaborative 
Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Taipei City Hospital, Women and Children's Campus, 
Taipei, Taiwan. Electronic address: dae61@tpech.gov.tw.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, Taipei City Hospital, Women and Children's Campus, 
Taipei, Taiwan.
(3)School of Medicine, Fu-Jen Catholic University, Department of Pediatrics, 
Cardinal Tien Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan.

BACKGROUND: The goal of this study was to compare the growth and effect of 
growth on cognitive performance at 5 years of age of a group of 
very-low-birth-weight (VLBW) infants and a group of healthy full-term infants.
METHODS: Beginning in 1995, under the sponsorship of the Premature Baby 
Foundation, the Society of Neonatology, Taiwan, conducted a multicenter 
follow-up study of VLBW infants in Taiwan. The study enrolled 322 VLBW infants 
and 103 controls for assessment of growth data and cognitive performance at 
several time points from birth through to 5 years of age. Growth data were 
assessed with measurements of weight, height, and head circumference taken at 
the ages of 6 months, 12 months, 24 months, and 60 months. Cognitive performance 
was assessed at the age of 5 years. The VLBW infants were regarded as "failed" 
if a measurement was 2 standard deviations below the mean measurement of the 
control group. Neonatal and perinatal data had been collected prospectively as 
part of a longitudinal study. Cognitive performance was assessed using the 
Chinese version of the Wechsler Preschool and Primary Scale of Intelligence 
(WPPSI-R).
RESULTS: From 6 months to 5 years, VLBW infants had lower weight, height, and 
head circumference than the controls. Two hundred twenty-four VLBW infants 
(69.6%) returned for assessment at 5 years old. Of the 224 VLBW infants, 
complete sets of measurements of weight, height, and head circumference were 
obtained for 126 cases (56.3%), 127 cases (56.7%), and 106 cases (47.3%), 
respectively. Of these, 13 patients (10.3%) failed in weight, 11 patients (8.7%) 
failed in height, and 17 patients (16.0%) failed in head circumference at the 
age of 5 years. The mean WPPSI-R scores at the age of 5 years for VLBW children 
were: 94.1 ± 16.4 (performance IQ), 87.2 ± 12.8 (verbal IQ), and 89.5 ± 14.6 
(full IQ). All of these values were also lower than those of the control group, 
with the differences being statistically significant (p < 0.05). The WPPSI-R 
scores of VLBW children who failed in head circumference were notably lower than 
those of VLBW children whose head circumference had caught up with that of their 
peers.
CONCLUSION: The growth of VLBW infants was lower than that of healthy full-term 
infants through 5 years of age. The cognitive performance for VLBW children was 
also decreased compared to that of the control group, and there was an 
association between slower growth and decreased cognitive ability.

Copyright © 2013. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pedneo.2013.08.001
PMID: 24126010 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1292. JAMA Pediatr. 2013 Dec;167(12):1102-10. doi: 10.1001/jamapediatrics.2013.2764.

Multiple courses of antenatal corticosteroids for preterm birth study: outcomes 
in children at 5 years of age (MACS-5).

Asztalos EV(1), Murphy KE, Willan AR, Matthews SG, Ohlsson A, Saigal S, Armson 
BA, Kelly EN, Delisle MF, Gafni A, Lee SK, Sananes R, Rovet J, Guselle P, 
Amankwah K, Saleem M, Sanchez J; MACS-5 Collaborative Group.

Collaborators: Asztalos EV, Murphy K, Willan A, Matthews S, Hannah M, Ohlsson A, 
Kelly E, Saigal S, Ross S, Delisle M, Amankwah K, Guselle P, Gafni A, Lee S, 
Armson B, Sananes R, Rovet J, Sanchez J, Saleem M, Asztalos E, Murphy K, Saigal 
S, Bracken M, Crowley P, Thorpe K, Duley L, Erenkranz R, Kavuma E, Saleem M, 
Tobin S, Shi M, Chan S, Gubatan J, Cardwell J, Leung M, Sanchez J, Mason D, 
Kwiatkowski L, Deguer C, Salazar A, Brindo M, Klun M, Castaldi JL, Bertin MS, 
Rodriguez D, Fustiñana CA, Otaño L, Izbizky G, Palermo MS, Varela DM, García MV, 
Trasmonte ME, Basualdo MN, Schapira I, Andina E, Di Marco I, Aspres N, Rivero M, 
Gomez EE, Palacios LL, Ahlbom MB, Bonassies MS, Vidal DA, Aguirre JD, Morales 
EM, Garcia SA, Abreo GI, De Sagastizabal MT, Martin Rde L, De Gaetano SL, Walter 
M, Arias C, Farri ML, Gorostiaga RA, Alvarado JE, Curioni M, Tessari DM, Madi 
JM, Zatti H, Mattana Mdo C, Ártico Gl, Trapani A Jr, Finger TC, Rosado LE, 
Teixeira VR, Vidal AC, de Souza GR, de Sa RA, Bornia RG, Hendson L, Tomlinson J, 
Demianczuk N, Penttinen E, Krishnaswamy R, Paquin J, Butt K, Hay K, Beaney A, 
Armson A, Allen V, Fanning C, Kulkarni R, Laplante J, Carson GD, Williams S, 
Olatunbosun F, Henry A, Wonko N, Moutquin JM, Ferretti E, Royer D, Blouin D, 
Bédard SK, Murphy K, Ohlsson A, Kelly E, Rovet J, Sananes R, Asztalos E, Cohen 
H, Barrett J, Hohn D, Lacy M, Delisle MF, Quelch S, Willar T, Synnes A, Butt A, 
Hubber-Richard P, Moddemann D, Cote D, Kenny-Lodewyks D, Helewa M, del Rio S, 
Gomez R, Neculman KS, Vargas P, Pons A, Kusanovic JP, Veloso PP, Aguilera LS, 
Schifferli MT, Gonzalez PU, Poblete JF, Ferrand P, Reyes AB, Moore R, Belmar C, 
Ortiz EI, Munoz JT, Sanchez A, Jimenez CA, Atencia D, Hvidman L, Mouritzen A, 
Vikre-Jørgensen J, Nonnenmacher A, Hopp H, Hoyme UB, Bittrich HJ, Oletzky B, 
Dressler F, Hollwitz B, Korausova J, Krause M, Petermoeller M, Mueller K, Major 
T, Bartha T, Krasznai Z, Nachum Z, Faranesh R, Galil A, Hallak M, Adiva H, Harel 
L, Chayen B, Wolff L, Samberg I, Gonen R, Wolfson E, Kohelet D, Shochot R, Arbel 
E, Sadan O, Regev R, Zausmer J, Kaneti H, Rosen D, Netter T, Klinger G, Tirosh 
N, Naor N, Maman M, El-Zibdeh M, Al-Faris L, Preis K, Domzalska-Popadiuk I, 
Thrun A, Kobiela P, Swiatkowska-Freund M, Preis-Ortikowska J, Janczewska I, 
Kesiak M, Krekora M, Zych K, Wilczynski J, Gulczyńska E, Krasomski G, 
Breborowicz G, Szymankiewicz M, Rozycka J, Montgomery A, Ropacka M, Madejczyk M, 
Samsonova T, Malyshkina A, Borzova N, Chasha T, Khodzhaeva Z, Vikhlyaeva E, 
Grande M, Botet F, Palacio M, Weber P, Tillmann B, Hosli I, Forcada-Guex M, 
Hohlfeld P, Prince-dit-Clottu E, Belhia F, Roumen FJ, Gavilanes AW, Smits F, 
Bolaji I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Newborn and Developmental Paediatrics, Sunnybrook Health 
Sciences Centre, Sunnybrook Research Institute, University of Toronto, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada.

Comment in
    JAMA Pediatr. 2014 Apr;168(4):389.
    JAMA Pediatr. 2014 Apr;168(4):389-90.

IMPORTANCE: A single course of antenatal corticosteroid therapy is recommended 
for pregnant women at risk of preterm birth between 24 and 33 weeks' gestational 
age. However, 50% of women remain pregnant 7 to 14 days later, leading to the 
question of whether additional courses should be given to women remaining at 
risk for preterm birth. The Multiple Courses of Antenatal Corticosteroids for 
Preterm Birth Study (MACS) was an international randomized clinical trial that 
compared multiple courses of antenatal corticosteroids with a single course in 
women at risk of preterm birth.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the effects of single vs multiple courses of antenatal 
corticosteroid therapy on death or neurodevelopmental disability (neuromotor, 
neurosensory, or neurocognitive/neurobehavioral function) at 5 years of age in 
children whose mothers participated in MACS. Our secondary aims were to 
determine the effect on height, weight, head circumference, blood pressure, 
intelligence, and specific cognitive (visual, spatial, and language) skills.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: Cohort follow-up study of children seen 
between June 2006 and May 2012 at 55 centers. In total, 1724 women (2141 
children) were eligible for the study, of whom 1728 children (80.7% of the 2141 
eligible children) participated and 1719 children contributed to the primary 
outcome.
INTERVENTION: Single and multiple courses of antenatal corticosteroid therapy.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: The primary outcome was death or survival with a 
neurodevelopmental disability in 1 of the following domains: neuromotor 
(nonambulatory cerebral palsy), neurosensory (blindness, deafness, or need for 
visual/hearing aids), or neurocognitive/neurobehavioral function (abnormal 
attention, memory, or behavior).
RESULTS: There was no significant difference between the groups in the risk of 
death or neurodevelopmental disability: 217 of 871 children (24.9%) in the 
multiple-courses group vs 210 of 848 children (24.8%) in the single-course group 
(odds ratio, 1.02 [95% CI, 0.81 to 1.29]; P = .84).
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Multiple courses, compared with a single course, of 
antenatal corticosteroid therapy did not increase or decrease the risk of death 
or disability at 5 years of age. Because of a lack of strong conclusive evidence 
of short-term or long-term benefits, it remains our opinion that multiple 
courses not be recommended in women with ongoing risk of preterm birth.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00187382.

DOI: 10.1001/jamapediatrics.2013.2764
PMID: 24126948 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1293. Hist Psychol. 2014 Aug;17(3):223-36. doi: 10.1037/a0033740. Epub 2013 Oct 14.

Making up intelligence scales: De Sanctis's and Binet's tests, 1905 and after.

Cicciola E(1), Foschi R(1), Lombardo GP(1).

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Psicologia Dinamica e Clinica, "Sapienza" University of Rome.

Sante De Sanctis (1862-1935) and Alfred Binet (1857-1911), the latter in 
collaboration with Théodore Simon (1873-1960), introduced their intelligence 
tests to the scientific community at the Fifth International Congress of 
Psychology, held in Rome in 1905 on April 26-30. The cultural and political 
contexts within which De Sanctis and Binet developed their respective 
intelligence tests showed certain similarities. Nevertheless, De Sanctis's 
intelligence test and Binet's test did differ in certain respects. The objective 
of this article is to understand the differences and similarities between the 
Parisian and the Roman contexts in relation to mental testing, and to 
investigate the theoretical-methodological contributions of each. In addition, 
the article analyzes the "diversity" of De Sanctis's context and test, which did 
not influence the international psychology. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 
APA, all rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/a0033740
PMID: 24127867 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1294. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2013;157(42):A6370.

[The behavioural variant of frontotemporal dementia: a challenging diagnosis].

[Article in Dutch]

Gossink F(1), Dols A, Kerssens CJ, Scheltens P, Stek ML, Pijnenburg YA.

Author information:
(1)GGZ inGeest, academische werkplaats ouderenpsychiatrie, Amsterdam.

We present the case of a 52-year-old man who was diagnosed with the behavioural 
variant of frontotemporal dementia (bvFTD) in accordance with consortium 
criteria from 1998. The diagnosis was questioned in the years of follow-up, 
since neuroimaging showed no abnormalities and no deterioration of clinical 
symptoms was seen. After 3 years, the diagnosis was withdrawn after the 
psychiatrist concluded that his low intelligence, combined with a cluster C 
personality and relational problems, had caused his altered behaviour. 
Diagnosing bvFTD is challenging because of its clinical resemblance to 
neurodegenerative and psychiatric illnesses. The new bvFTD consortium criteria 
from 2011 emphasize the importance of distinguishing possible and probable 
bvFTD. This can reduce the number of incorrect diagnoses. We present a flow 
chart based on these criteria, which could aid in improving the diagnostic 
process.

PMID: 24128597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1295. Learn Mem. 2013 Oct 15;20(11):617-27. doi: 10.1101/lm.031971.113.

Dopamine D1 sensitivity in the prefrontal cortex predicts general cognitive 
abilities and is modulated by working memory training.

Wass C(1), Pizzo A, Sauce B, Kawasumi Y, Sturzoiu T, Ree F, Otto T, Matzel LD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Rutgers University, Piscataway, New Jersey 08854, 
USA.

A common source of variance (i.e., "general intelligence") underlies an 
individual's performance across diverse tests of cognitive ability, and evidence 
indicates that the processing efficacy of working memory may serve as one such 
source of common variance. One component of working memory, selective attention, 
has been reported to co-vary with general intelligence, and dopamine D1 
signaling in prefrontal cortex can modulate attentional abilities. Based on 
their aggregate performance across five diverse tests of learning, here we 
characterized the general cognitive ability (GCA) of CD-1 outbred mice. In 
response to a D1 agonist (SKF82958, 1 mg/kg), we then assessed the relationship 
between GCA and activation of D1 receptor (D1R)-containing neurons in the 
prelimbic region of the medial prefrontal cortex, the agranular insular cortex, 
and the dorsomedial striatum. Increased activation of D1R-containing neurons in 
the prelimbic cortex (but not the agranular insular cortex or dorsomedial 
striatum) was observed in animals of high GCA relative to those of low GCA 
(quantified by c-Fos activation in response to the D1 agonist). However, a 
Western blot analysis revealed no differences in the density of D1Rs in the 
prelimbic cortex between animals of high and low GCA. Last, it was observed that 
working memory training promoted an increase in animals' GCA and enhanced 
D1R-mediated neuronal activation in the prelimbic cortex. These results suggest 
that the sensitivity (but not density) of D1Rs in the prelimbic cortex may both 
regulate GCA and be a target for working memory training.

DOI: 10.1101/lm.031971.113
PMCID: PMC3799419
PMID: 24129098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1296. CMAJ. 2013 Nov 19;185(17):E791-802. doi: 10.1503/cmaj.130628. Epub 2013 Oct 15.

Effects of daily iron supplementation in primary-school-aged children: 
systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials.

Low M, Farrell A, Biggs BA, Pasricha SR.

Comment in
    CMAJ. 2013 Nov 19;185(17):1477-8.

BACKGROUND: Anemia is an important public health and clinical problem. 
Observational studies have linked iron deficiency and anemia in children with 
many poor outcomes, including impaired cognitive development; however, iron 
supplementation, a widely used preventive and therapeutic strategy, is 
associated with adverse effects. Primary-school-aged children are at a critical 
stage in intellectual development, and optimization of their cognitive 
performance could have long-lasting individual and population benefits. In this 
study, we summarize the evidence for the benefits and safety of daily iron 
supplementation in primary-school-aged children.
METHODS: We searched electronic databases (including MEDLINE and Embase) and 
other sources (July 2013) for randomized and quasi-randomized controlled trials 
involving daily iron supplementation in children aged 5-12 years. We combined 
the data using random effects meta-analysis.
RESULTS: We identified 16 501 studies; of these, we evaluated 76 full-text 
papers and included 32 studies including 7089 children. Of the included studies, 
31 were conducted in low- or middle-income settings. Iron supplementation 
improved global cognitive scores (standardized mean difference 0.50, 95% 
confidence interval [CI] 0.11 to 0.90, p = 0.01), intelligence quotient among 
anemic children (mean difference 4.55, 95% CI 0.16 to 8.94, p = 0.04) and 
measures of attention and concentration. Iron supplementation also improved 
age-adjusted height among all children and age-adjusted weight among anemic 
children. Iron supplementation reduced the risk of anemia by 50% and the risk of 
iron deficiency by 79%. Adherence in the trial settings was generally high. 
Safety data were limited.
INTERPRETATION: Our analysis suggests that iron supplementation safely improves 
hematologic and nonhematologic outcomes among primary-school-aged children in 
low- or middle-income settings and is well-tolerated.

DOI: 10.1503/cmaj.130628
PMCID: PMC3832580
PMID: 24130243 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1297. PLoS One. 2013 Oct 9;8(10):e77215. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0077215. 
eCollection 2013.

The association between intelligence scores and family history of psychiatric 
disorder in schizophrenia patients, their siblings and healthy controls.

Verweij KH(1), Derks EM; Genetic Risk and Outcome in Psychosis (GROUP) 
investigators.

Collaborators: Kahn RS, Linszen D, van Os J, Wiersma D, Bruggeman R, Cahn W, de 
Haan L, Krabbendam L, Myin-Germeys I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Rudolf Magnus Institute of Neuroscience, University 
Medical Centre Utrecht, Utrecht, the Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: The degree of intellectual impairment in schizophrenia patients and 
their relatives has been suggested to be associated with the degree of familial 
loading for schizophrenia. Since other psychiatric disorders are also more 
present in relatives of schizophrenia patients, the definition of family history 
should be broadened. The association between family history for psychiatric 
disorder and intelligence scores was investigated in patients with non-affective 
psychosis, their unaffected siblings and controls.
METHODS: A sample of 712 schizophrenia proband families (696 patients and 766 
siblings) and 427 healthy control families (517 subjects) participated in this 
study. Family history of psychiatric disorder was determined while excluding the 
data of the participating schizophrenia patient. A dichotomous division was made 
between families with no first- or second degree relative with psychiatric 
disorder and families with one or more affected relatives. Total intelligence 
scores were estimated by admission of the short form of the Wechsler Adult 
Intelligence Scale III.
RESULTS: A significant interaction was found between family history of 
psychiatric disorder and clinical status (F(2,1086.87)= 4.17; p=.016). Patients 
with a positive family history of psychiatric disorder obtained higher 
intelligence scores compared to patients with no family history (mean IQ scores 
are 95.52 and 92.72) with an opposite effect in controls (mean IQ scores are 
108.71 and 111.19). No significant difference was found between siblings of 
schizophrenia patients with or without a positive family history (mean IQ scores 
are 102.98 and 103.24).
CONCLUSION: In patients with schizophrenia, a negative family history of 
psychiatric disorder was associated with relatively low IQ suggesting that the 
etiology in these patients may involve environmental or genetic factors which 
are unique to the patient and are not observed in other relatives. Possible 
factors include severe environmental stressors containing premature birth or 
brain injury and genetic factors (e.g de novo Copy Number Variants).

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0077215
PMCID: PMC3793952
PMID: 24130858 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The infrastructure for the 
GROUP study is funded through the Geestkracht programme of the Dutch Health 
Research Council (ZON-MW, grant number 10-000-1001), and matching funds from 
participating pharmaceutical companies (Lundbeck, AstraZeneca, Eli Lilly, 
Janssen Cilag) and universities and mental health care organizations This does 
not alter the authors' adherence to all the PLOS ONE policies on sharing data 
and materials.


1298. PLoS One. 2013 Oct 9;8(10):e77475. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0077475. 
eCollection 2013.

Contribution of brain size to IQ and educational underperformance in extremely 
preterm adolescents.

Cheong JL(1), Anderson PJ, Roberts G, Burnett AC, Lee KJ, Thompson DK, Molloy C, 
Wilson-Ching M, Connelly A, Seal ML, Wood SJ, Doyle LW.

Author information:
(1)Neonatal Services, Royal Women's Hospital, Melbourne, Australia ; Victorian 
Infant Brain Studies, Murdoch Childrens Research Institute, Melbourne, Australia 
; Department of Obstetrics & Gynaecology, University of Melbourne, Melbourne, 
Australia.

OBJECTIVES: Extremely preterm (EP) survivors have smaller brains, lower IQ, and 
worse educational achievement than their term-born peers. The contribution of 
smaller brain size to the IQ and educational disadvantages of EP is unknown. 
This study aimed (i) to compare brain volumes from multiple brain tissues and 
structures between EP-born (< 28 weeks) and term-born (≥ 37 weeks) control 
adolescents, (ii) to explore the relationships of brain tissue volumes with IQ 
and basic educational skills and whether this differed by group, and (iii) to 
explore how much total brain tissue volume explains the underperformance of EP 
adolescents compared with controls.
METHODS: Longitudinal cohort study of 148 EP and 132 term controls born in 
Victoria, Australia in 1991-92. At age 18, magnetic resonance imaging-determined 
brain volumes of multiple tissues and structures were calculated. IQ and 
educational skills were measured using the Wechsler Abbreviated Scale of 
Intelligence (WASI) and the Wide Range Achievement Test(WRAT-4), respectively.
RESULTS: Brain volumes were smaller in EP adolescents compared with controls 
(mean difference [95% confidence interval] of -5.9% [-8.0, -3.7%] for total 
brain tissue volume). The largest relative differences were noted in the 
thalamus and hippocampus. The EP group had lower IQs(-11.9 [-15.4, -8.5]), 
spelling(-8.0 [-11.5, -4.6]), math computation(-10.3 [-13.7, -6.9]) and word 
reading(-5.6 [-8.8, -2.4]) scores than controls; all p-values<0.001. Volumes of 
total brain tissue and other brain tissues and structures correlated positively 
with IQ and educational skills, a relationship that was similar for both the EP 
and controls. Total brain tissue volume explained between 20-40% of the IQ and 
educational outcome differences between EP and controls.
CONCLUSIONS: EP adolescents had smaller brain volumes, lower IQs and poorer 
educational performance than controls. Brain volumes of multiple tissues and 
structures are related to IQ and educational outcomes. Smaller total brain 
tissue volume is an important contributor to the cognitive and educational 
underperformance of adolescents born EP.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0077475
PMCID: PMC3793949
PMID: 24130887 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


1299. Lancet Oncol. 2013 Nov;14(12):1165-74. doi: 10.1016/S1470-2045(13)70442-X. Epub 
2013 Oct 14.

Economic burden of cancer across the European Union: a population-based cost 
analysis.

Luengo-Fernandez R(1), Leal J, Gray A, Sullivan R.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Centre, Nuffield Department of Population Health, 
University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.

Comment in
    Lancet Oncol. 2013 Nov;14(12):1142-3.

BACKGROUND: In 2008, 2·45 million people were diagnosed with cancer and 1·23 
million died because of cancer in the 27 countries of the European Union (EU). 
We aimed to estimate the economic burden of cancer in the EU.
METHODS: In a population-based cost analysis, we evaluated the cost of all 
cancers and also those associated with breast, colorectal, lung, and prostate 
cancers. We obtained country-specific aggregate data for morbidity, mortality, 
and health-care resource use from international and national sources. We 
estimated health-care costs from expenditure on care in the primary, outpatient, 
emergency, and inpatient settings, and also drugs. Additionally, we estimated 
the costs of unpaid care provided by relatives or friends of patients (ie, 
informal care), lost earnings after premature death, and costs associated with 
individuals who temporarily or permanently left employment because of illness.
FINDINGS: Cancer cost the EU €126 billion in 2009, with health care accounting 
for €51·0 billion (40%). Across the EU, the health-care costs of cancer were 
equivalent to €102 per citizen, but varied substantially from €16 per person in 
Bulgaria to €184 per person in Luxembourg. Productivity losses because of early 
death cost €42·6 billion and lost working days €9·43 billion. Informal care cost 
€23·2 billion. Lung cancer had the highest economic cost (€18·8 billion, 15% of 
overall cancer costs), followed by breast cancer (€15·0 billion, 12%), 
colorectal cancer (€13·1 billion, 10%), and prostate cancer (€8·43 billion, 7%).
INTERPRETATION: Our results show wide differences between countries, the reasons 
for which need further investigation. These data contribute to public health and 
policy intelligence, which is required to deliver affordable cancer care systems 
and inform effective public research funds allocation.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1470-2045(13)70442-X
PMID: 24131614 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1300. Zhongguo Dang Dai Er Ke Za Zhi. 2013 Oct;15(10):866-9.

[Effects of sleep deprivation on the intelligence structure of school-age 
children in Changsha, China].

[Article in Chinese]

Wang XY(1), Wang X, Huang CQ, Guo ZY, Qian YF, Yang Y, Tan M, Tan X, Tu QY, Wang 
L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, First Hospital of Changsha, Changsha 410005, China. 
wxhaoyisheng@ 163.com.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the effects of sleep deprivation on intelligence 
development in primary school students.
METHODS: Between June 2009 and April 2010, 316 grade 5 students aged 10-11 years 
were selected from four primary schools in four administrative districts of 
Changsha, China by stratified random sampling. The intelligence characteristics 
of children with varying degrees of sleep deprivation were investigated using 
the Chinese Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children.
RESULTS: A total of 286 valid questionnaires were received, with a response rate 
of 90.5%. The survey was comprised of a sleep deprivation group (sleep time <8 
hours per night; n=180) and a control group (sleep time ≥8 hours per night; 
n=106). The sleep deprivation group had significantly lower subtest scores, 
verbal intelligence quotient (IQ) (VIQ), performance IQ (PIQ) and full scale IQ 
(P<0.05) and significantly lower verbal comprehension factor score and 
memory/attention factor score compared with the control group (P<0.05). Compared 
with the control group, the moderate sleep deprivation subgroup had 
significantly decreased VIQ and full scale IQ as well as verbal comprehension 
factor score and memory/attention factor score (P<0.05), and the severe sleep 
deprivation subgroup showed decreases in all scores (P<0.05). The sleep 
deprivation group and moderate and severe sleep deprivation subgroups had 
significantly higher proportions of children with VIQ-PIQ imbalance than the 
control group.
CONCLUSIONS: Sleep deprivation adversely affects intelligence development, 
especially VIQ, in primary school students, and the adverse effects of sleep 
deprivation are mainly seen in students with moderate and severe sleep 
deprivation.

PMID: 24131840 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1301. Front Psychol. 2013 Sep 26;4:631. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2013.00631. eCollection 
2013.

Environmental influences on neural systems of relational complexity.

Kalbfleisch ML(1), Debettencourt MT, Kopperman R, Banasiak M, Roberts JM, Halavi 
M.

Author information:
(1)KIDLAB, Krasnow Institute for Advanced Study, George Mason University 
Fairfax, VA, USA ; Graduate Neuroscience, College of Science, George Mason 
University Fairfax, VA, USA ; College of Education and Human Development, George 
Mason University Fairfax, VA, USA ; Department of Pediatrics, The George 
Washington School of Medicine and Health Sciences Washington, DC, USA.

Constructivist learning theory contends that we construct knowledge by 
experience and that environmental context influences learning. To explore this 
principle, we examined the cognitive process relational complexity (RC), defined 
as the number of visual dimensions considered during problem solving on a matrix 
reasoning task and a well-documented measure of mature reasoning capacity. We 
sought to determine how the visual environment influences RC by examining the 
influence of color and visual contrast on RC in a neuroimaging task. To specify 
the contributions of sensory demand and relational integration to reasoning, our 
participants performed a non-verbal matrix task comprised of color, no-color 
line, or black-white visual contrast conditions parametrically varied by 
complexity (relations 0, 1, 2). The use of matrix reasoning is ecologically 
valid for its psychometric relevance and for its potential to link the 
processing of psychophysically specific visual properties with various levels of 
RC during reasoning. The role of these elements is important because matrix 
tests assess intellectual aptitude based on these seemingly context-less 
exercises. This experiment is a first step toward examining the psychophysical 
underpinnings of performance on these types of problems. The importance of this 
is increased in light of recent evidence that intelligence can be linked to 
visual discrimination. We submit three main findings. First, color and 
black-white visual contrast (BWVC) add demand at a basic sensory level, but 
contributions from color and from BWVC are dissociable in cortex such that color 
engages a "reasoning heuristic" and BWVC engages a "sensory heuristic." Second, 
color supports contextual sense-making by boosting salience resulting in faster 
problem solving. Lastly, when visual complexity reaches 2-relations, color and 
visual contrast relinquish salience to other dimensions of problem solving.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2013.00631
PMCID: PMC3783983
PMID: 24133465


1302. Front Psychol. 2013 Oct 10;4:740. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2013.00740. eCollection 
2013.

On the interrelation of multiplication and division in secondary school 
children.

Huber S(1), Fischer U, Moeller K, Nuerk HC.

Author information:
(1)Knowledge Media Research Center Tuebingen, Germany.

Each division problem can be transformed into as a multiplication problem and 
vice versa. Recent research has indicated strong developmental parallels between 
multiplication and division in primary school children. In this study, we were 
interested in (i) whether these developmental parallels persist into secondary 
school, (ii) whether similar developmental parallels can be observed for simple 
and complex problems, (iii) whether skill level modulates this relationship, and 
(iv) whether the correlations are specific and not driven by general cognitive 
or arithmetic abilities. Therefore, we assessed performance of 5th and 6th 
graders attending two secondary school types of the German educational system in 
simple and complex multiplication as well as division while controlling for 
non-verbal intelligence, short-term memory, and other arithmetic abilities. 
Accordingly, we collected data from students differing in skills levels due to 
either age (5th < 6th grade) or school type (general < intermediate secondary 
school). We observed moderate to strong bivariate and partial correlations 
between multiplication and division with correlations being higher for simple 
tasks but nevertheless reliable for complex tasks. Moreover, the association 
between simple multiplication and division depended on students' skill levels as 
reflected by school types, but not by age. Partial correlations were higher for 
intermediate than for general secondary school children. In sum, these findings 
emphasize the importance of the inverse relationship between multiplication and 
division which persists into later developmental stages. However, evidence for 
skill-related differences in the relationship between multiplication and 
division was restricted to the differences for school types.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2013.00740
PMCID: PMC3794290
PMID: 24133476


1303. J Paediatr Child Health. 2014 Jan;50(1):16-23. doi: 10.1111/jpc.12390. Epub 2013 
Oct 18.

Neurobehavioural correlates in older children and adolescents with obesity and 
obstructive sleep apnoea.

Tan E(1), Healey D, Schaughency E, Dawes P, Galland B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Women's and Children's Health, University of Otago, Dunedin, 
New Zealand.

AIM: The relationship between obstructive sleep apnoea (OSA) and poorer 
neurobehavioural outcomes in school-age children is well established, but the 
relationship in obese children and adolescents, in whom OSA is more common, is 
not so well established. We aimed to investigate this relationship in 
10-18-year-olds.
METHODS: Thirty-one participants with a mean body mass index (BMI) of 32.3 ± 4.9 
enrolled. BMI-for-age cut-offs were used to define obesity. Participants 
underwent polysomnography and were classified into OSA (apnoea-hypopnoea index 
(AHI) > 2 per hour) and non-OSA (AHI ≤ 2) groups. Intelligence, memory and 
learning, academic achievement, behaviour and executive functioning were 
assessed using the Wechsler Abbreviated Scale of Intelligence, Wide Range 
Assessment of Memory and Learning 2, Wechsler Individual Achievement Test II 
(WIAT-II), Behavioural Assessment System for Children 2 and Behaviour Rating 
Inventory of Executive Function, respectively.
RESULTS: Forty-eight per cent (15/31) were classified as having OSA, and 52% 
(16/31) as non-OSA. The obese cohort performed below the average of normative 
data on several neurobehavioural measures. WIAT-II maths scores were 
significantly lower (P = 0.034) in the OSA group than in the non-OSA group 
(means 84.5 vs. 94.6, respectively), losing significance after adjustment for 
IQ, age and gender. Self-reported school problems were significantly worse in 
the OSA group before and after multivariate adjustment (P = 0.010, Cohen's d = 
1.02). No other significant differences were found.
CONCLUSIONS: Results suggest that OSA may increase risk for some poorer 
educational and behavioural outcomes. The findings are reasonably consistent 
with and add to the evidence base of the few studies that have explored this 
relationship.

© 2013 The Authors. Journal of Paediatrics and Child Health © 2013 Paediatrics 
and Child Health Division (Royal Australasian College of Physicians).

DOI: 10.1111/jpc.12390
PMID: 24134790 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1304. Zhonghua Yi Shi Za Zhi. 2013 Mar;43(2):88-94.

[The people's mentality confronting plague in the Ming Dynasty].

[Article in Chinese]

Chen X(1).

Author information:
(1)College of History, Nankai University, Tianjin, 300071, China.

The social influence of plague was not only confined to its pathogenicity, but 
also its close relationship with the people's mentality. According to the 
historical materials of the Ming Dynasty, there were 2 kinds of mentalities when 
confronting with the prevalence of plague: negative and positive. The former 
included fear, helplessness, depression and superstition etc., and the latter 
included intelligence, consolation, thanksgiving and vigour etc. The negative 
passive mentality didn't help to fight effectively against the plague, or might 
even aggravate its prevalence. However, the positive mentality helped ameliorate 
and control the plague, and also the rehabilitation of the order of production 
and living order after the plague.

PMID: 24135475


1305. Nucleic Acids Res. 2014 Jan;42(Database issue):D1222-8. doi: 10.1093/nar/gkt926. 
Epub 2013 Oct 16.

RiceWiki: a wiki-based database for community curation of rice genes.

Zhang Z(1), Sang J, Ma L, Wu G, Wu H, Huang D, Zou D, Liu S, Li A, Hao L, Tian 
M, Xu C, Wang X, Wu J, Xiao J, Dai L, Chen LL, Hu S, Yu J.

Author information:
(1)CAS Key Laboratory of Genome Sciences and Information, Beijing Institute of 
Genomics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100101, China, Research Institute 
of Subtropical Forestry, Chinese Academy of Forestry, Fuyang, Zhejiang 311400, 
China, School of Computer Science and Technology, Beijing Institute of 
Technology, Beijing 100081, China and College of Life Science and Technology, 
Huazhong Agricultural University, Wuhan 430070, China.

Rice is the most important staple food for a large part of the world's human 
population and also a key model organism for biological studies of crops as well 
as other related plants. Here we present RiceWiki (http://ricewiki.big.ac.cn), a 
wiki-based, publicly editable and open-content platform for community curation 
of rice genes. Most existing related biological databases are based on expert 
curation; with the exponentially exploding volume of rice knowledge and other 
relevant data, however, expert curation becomes increasingly laborious and 
time-consuming to keep knowledge up-to-date, accurate and comprehensive, 
struggling with the flood of data and requiring a large number of people getting 
involved in rice knowledge curation. Unlike extant relevant databases, RiceWiki 
features harnessing collective intelligence in community curation of rice genes, 
quantifying users' contributions in each curated gene and providing explicit 
authorship for each contributor in any given gene, with the aim to exploit the 
full potential of the scientific community for rice knowledge curation. Based on 
community curation, RiceWiki bears the potential to make it possible to build a 
rice encyclopedia by and for the scientific community that harnesses community 
intelligence for collaborative knowledge curation, covers all aspects of 
biological knowledge and keeps evolving with novel knowledge.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gkt926
PMCID: PMC3964990
PMID: 24136999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1306. Pediatr Neurol. 2014 Jan;50(1):31-7. doi: 10.1016/j.pediatrneurol.2013.07.022. 
Epub 2013 Oct 15.

Corticosteroid therapy for duchenne muscular dystrophy: improvement of 
psychomotor function.

Sato Y(1), Yamauchi A(2), Urano M(2), Kondo E(2), Saito K(3).

Author information:
(1)Affiliated Field of Genetic Medicine, Division of Biomedical Engineering and 
Science, Graduate Course of Medicine, Graduate School of Tokyo Women's Medical 
University, Tokyo, Japan; Institute of Medical Genetics, Tokyo Women's Medical 
University, Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Institute of Medical Genetics, Tokyo Women's Medical University, Tokyo, 
Japan.
(3)Affiliated Field of Genetic Medicine, Division of Biomedical Engineering and 
Science, Graduate Course of Medicine, Graduate School of Tokyo Women's Medical 
University, Tokyo, Japan; Institute of Medical Genetics, Tokyo Women's Medical 
University, Tokyo, Japan. Electronic address: saito@img.twmu.ac.jp.

BACKGROUND: Of the numerous clinical trials for Duchenne muscular dystrophy, 
only the corticosteroid prednisolone has shown potential for temporal 
improvement in motor ability. In this study, the effects of prednisolone on 
intellectual ability are examined in 29 cases of Duchenne muscular dystrophy 
because little information has been reported. And also, motor functions and 
cardiac functions were evaluated.
METHODS: The treated group was administered prednisolone (0.75 mg/kg) orally on 
alternate days and the compared with the untreated control group. Gene mutations 
were investigated. The patients were examined for intelligence quotient adequate 
for age, brain natriuretic peptide, creatine kinase, and manual muscle testing 
before treatment and after the period 6 months to 2 years.
RESULTS: Intelligence quotient scores of the treated increased to 6.5 ± 11.9 
(mean ± standard deviation) were compared with the controls 2.1 ± 4.9 (P = 
0.009). Intelligence quotient scores of the patients with nonsense point 
mutations improved significantly (21.0 ± 7.9) more than those with deletion or 
duplication (1.9 ± 9.0; P = 0.015). Motor function, such as time to stand up, of 
those treated improved significantly and brain natriuretic peptide level was 
reduced to a normal level after treatment in 15 patients (73%).
CONCLUSIONS: Our results demonstrate the effectiveness of prednisolone in 
improving intellectual impairment as well as in preserving motor function and 
brain natriuretic peptide levels. We presume that prednisolone has a 
read-through effect on the stop codons in the central nervous systems of 
Duchenne muscular dystrophy because intelligence quotient of point mutation case 
was improved significantly.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pediatrneurol.2013.07.022
PMID: 24138948 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1307. Neurol Med Chir (Tokyo). 2014;54(3):205-10. doi: 10.2176/nmc.cr2012-0343. Epub 
2013 Oct 21.

A case of thrombosed giant aneurysm of the azygos anterior cerebral artery: 
clipping under monitoring of motor evoked potentials of the lower extremities.

Yoneda H(1), Suzuki M, Ishihara H, Koizumi H, Nomura S, Fujii M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Clinical Neuroscience, Higher Biointegration, 
Yamaguchi University Graduate School of Medicine.

Giant aneurysms of the distal anterior cerebral artery (ACA), especially the 
azygos ACA, are rare. We treated a patient with giant aneurysm of the azygos ACA 
who underwent aspiration of thrombus and clipping under monitoring of motor 
evoked potentials of the lower extremities (L-MEPs), resulting in remarkable 
recovery of motor and intellectual function. A 72-year-old male was admitted 
with left motor weakness persisting for 2 weeks. Neurologically, disorientation 
and intellectual impairment were also noted. Imaging disclosed a 60-mm diameter 
aneurysm with heterochronous thrombi arising from the distal bifurcation of the 
azygos ACA. One month after the onset, radical surgery was scheduled. The azygos 
ACA was secured and the aneurysm was dissected, and the distal parts of the 
azygos ACA were confirmed. After removal of the thrombus, the neck was 
reconstructed with eight clips. L-MEPs disappeared due to occlusion of the 
azygos ACA for 20 minutes but reappeared after 22 minutes and normalized 78 
minutes after reperfusion. Motor weakness improved entirely with mini-mental 
state examination score of 29 points at 1 month after surgery. One year later, 
Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Third Edition and Wechsler Memory 
Scale-Revised scores reached normal levels. Review of reported cases found this 
aneurysm tends to occur in males in their 50s to 70s presenting with mass sign. 
Decompression of the aneurysm in the frontal lobe and monitoring of L-MEPs 
during temporary occlusion of the ACA are important.

DOI: 10.2176/nmc.cr2012-0343
PMCID: PMC4533418
PMID: 24140776 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest Disclosure None of the 
authors have a real or perceived conflict of interest regarding the work in the 
manuscript.


1308. Vision Res. 2014 Jun;99:180-5. doi: 10.1016/j.visres.2013.10.003. Epub 2013 Oct 
16.

The effect of sleep in perceptual learning with complex objects.

Baeck A(1), Rentmeesters N(2), Holtackers S(3), Op de Beeck HP(4).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Biological Psychology, University of Leuven (KULeuven), 
Tiensestraat 102, 3000 Leuven, Belgium; Laboratory of Experimental Psychology, 
University of Leuven (KULeuven), Tiensestraat 102, 3000 Leuven, Belgium. 
Electronic address: Annelies.baeck@ppw.kuleuven.be.
(2)Laboratory of Biological Psychology, University of Leuven (KULeuven), 
Tiensestraat 102, 3000 Leuven, Belgium. Electronic address: 
Nils.rentmeesters@telenet.be.
(3)Laboratory of Biological Psychology, University of Leuven (KULeuven), 
Tiensestraat 102, 3000 Leuven, Belgium. Electronic address: Sjoerth@gmail.com.
(4)Laboratory of Biological Psychology, University of Leuven (KULeuven), 
Tiensestraat 102, 3000 Leuven, Belgium. Electronic address: 
Hans.OpdeBeeck@ppw.kuleuven.be.

Recognition of objects improves with training, but task performance also 
improves between sessions without further training. This offline learning seems 
to be influenced by post-training sleep, as is evidenced in perceptual learning 
studies with simple stimuli. In this study we aim to investigate the role of 
sleep in perceptual learning with complex natural and man-made objects. 
Participants were trained with a backward masking task during four sessions with 
12h between each training session (morning-evening-morning-evening or 
evening-morning-evening-morning). A larger improvement on performance was found 
after a night's sleep, than when subjects performed the task without having 
slept between training sessions. This effect was not influenced by the 
participants' chronotype or non-verbal intelligence. In addition, we replicated 
some key characteristics of perceptual learning with complex objects. 
Participants were retested six days after the last training session with the 
previously trained stimulus and new stimuli. The performance gains were 
long-lasting and specific to the trained stimulus set.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.visres.2013.10.003
PMID: 24140960 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1309. Cognition. 2014 Jan;130(1):11-30. doi: 10.1016/j.cognition.2013.08.013. Epub 
2013 Oct 18.

Goal neglect and knowledge chunking in the construction of novel behaviour.

Bhandari A(1), Duncan J.

Author information:
(1)MRC Cognition and Brain Sciences Unit, 15 Chaucer Road, Cambridge CB2 7EF, 
UK. Electronic address: apoorva.bhandari@mrc-cbu.cam.ac.uk.

Task complexity is critical in cognitive efficiency and fluid intelligence. To 
examine functional limits in task complexity, we examine the phenomenon of goal 
neglect, where participants with low fluid intelligence fail to follow task 
rules that they otherwise understand. Though neglect is known to increase with 
task complexity, here we show that - in contrast to previous accounts - the 
critical factor is not the total complexity of all task rules. Instead, when the 
space of task requirements can be divided into separate sub-parts, neglect is 
controlled by the complexity of each component part. The data also show that 
neglect develops and stabilizes over the first few performance trials, i.e. as 
instructions are first used to generate behaviour. In all complex behaviour, a 
critical process is combination of task events with retrieved task requirements 
to create focused attentional episodes dealing with each decision in turn. In 
large part, we suggest, fluid intelligence may reflect this process of 
converting complex requirements into effective attentional episodes.

Copyright © 2013 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cognition.2013.08.013
PMCID: PMC3857602
PMID: 24141034 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1310. Neurosciences (Riyadh). 2013 Oct;18(4):345-8.

Parents` knowledge and attitudes toward children with epilepsy.

Zainy LE(1), Atteyah DM, Aldisi WM, Abdulkarim HA, Alhelo RF, Alhelali HA, Jan 
MM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Faculty of Medicine, King Abdulaziz University, 
Jeddah, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.

Comment in
    Neurosciences (Riyadh). 2014 Jan;19(1):63.
    Neurosciences (Riyadh). 2014 Jan;19(1):63.

OBJECTIVE: To study parents` knowledge and attitude towards children with 
epilepsy, and to identify contributing factors to negative attitudes.
METHODS: A prospective cross-sectional study including consecutive parents 
attending the pediatric neurology clinics of King Abdulaziz University Hospital, 
Jeddah, Saudi Arabia from February to August 2012. A structured 40-item 
questionnaire was designed to examine their demographics, knowledge, and 
attitudes.
RESULTS: A total of 117 parents were interviewed, 57% were mothers. The ages of 
their epileptic children ranged from 1-16 years (median 6.6), mostly boys (65%). 
Although most parents (70%) felt informed and recognized various treatment 
modalities, many believed that epilepsy is a mental disorder (48%), correlates 
with evil (44%), or affects the child`s intelligence (38%). Up to 53% admitted 
to treating their child differently and avoiding upsetting or punishing him/her. 
This behavior was less likely if they achieved college education (p=0.01). Some 
parents (29%) admitted to using non-medical treatments, usually traditional or 
religious practices. Those parents were more likely to believe that epilepsy is 
a mental disease (p=0.002), or correlates with evil (p=0.015).
CONCLUSION: The level of knowledge among parents of epileptic children needs 
improvement. Many have significant misconceptions, negative attitudes, and poor 
parenting practices. Increased awareness and educational programs are needed to 
improve the quality of life of these families.

PMID: 24141457 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1311. Sci Rep. 2013 Oct 21;3:3008. doi: 10.1038/srep03008.

Human opinion dynamics: an inspiration to solve complex optimization problems.

Kaur R(1), Kumar R, Bhondekar AP, Kapur P.

Author information:
(1)1] CSIR-Central Scientific Instruments Organisation, Chandigarh, India [2] 
Academy of Scientific & Innovative Research, New Delhi, India.

Human interactions give rise to the formation of different kinds of opinions in 
a society. The study of formations and dynamics of opinions has been one of the 
most important areas in social physics. The opinion dynamics and associated 
social structure leads to decision making or so called opinion consensus. 
Opinion formation is a process of collective intelligence evolving from the 
integrative tendencies of social influence with the disintegrative effects of 
individualisation, and therefore could be exploited for developing search 
strategies. Here, we demonstrate that human opinion dynamics can be utilised to 
solve complex mathematical optimization problems. The results have been compared 
with a standard algorithm inspired from bird flocking behaviour and the 
comparison proves the efficacy of the proposed approach in general. Our 
investigation may open new avenues towards understanding the collective decision 
making.

DOI: 10.1038/srep03008
PMCID: PMC3801113
PMID: 24141795 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1312. Psychiatr Hung. 2013;28(3):221-8.

[Cold-minded thinking? The role of emotional intelligence and emotional 
stability in Machiavellian decision-making].

[Article in Hungarian]

Szíjjártó L(1), Bereczkei T.

Author information:
(1)PTE Pszichologiai Intezet, Pecs, Hungary, E-mail: bereczkei.tamas@pte.hu.

Previous studies clearly show that Machiavellians' thinking and behavior are 
characterized by some kind of cold attitude, a tendency to be detached from the 
emotional features of a particular situation. However, very little is known what 
this cold-minded attitude means, and the presence or the absence of what 
abilities can lead to emotional detachment. Surprisingly, our study has shown 
that Machiavellians - contrary to what others believe - happen to exhibit more 
emotional instability than others. They experience more negative emotions, lose 
their peace of mind faster, and have a hard time tolerating psychological 
distress. However, they try to conceal their emotional worries in two different 
ways. On the one hand, they cannot express their emotions as subtly and 
precisely as others, and on the other, they are much worse at identifying and 
differentiating their own emotional states. Maybe it is just the deficit in 
evaluating and expressing emotions that enables them to implement the strategy 
to enforce their self-interest successfully. The weak ability to identify and 
comprehend their own emotions may help them stay detached from the emotional 
temperature of a situation, while the difficulties in expressing their emotions 
enable them to disguise their true intentions from their partners.

PMID: 24142289 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1313. Brain Inj. 2014;28(1):15-9. doi: 10.3109/02699052.2013.847209. Epub 2013 Oct 21.

Executive dysfunction is related with decreased frontal lobe blood flow in 
patients with subarachnoid haemorrhage.

Uchikawa K(1), Inaba M, Kagami H, Ichimura S, Fujiwara T, Tsuji T, Otaka Y, Liu 
M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine .

OBJECTIVE: This study evaluated executive dysfunction in patients with 
subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) using the Behavioural Assessment of the 
Dysexecutive Syndrome (BADS) and correlated the occurrence of executive 
dysfunction with cerebral blood flow (CBF) reduction in the frontal lobe as 
assessed by single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT).
DESIGN: Correlational study.
SUBJECTS: Twenty-two patients who underwent microsurgical clipping at least 3 
months after SAH.
METHODS: This study evaluated the BADS and the Wechsler Adult Intelligence 
Scale-III (WAIS-III). In addition, it assessed activities of daily living (ADL). 
CBF was evaluated using SPECT. The patients were divided into the following 
groups according to the results of SPECT: (1) those with reduced CBF in the 
frontal lobe (reduced CBF group, n = 8) and (2) those with intact CBF (intact 
CBF group, n = 14).
RESULTS: The BADS score was significantly lower in the reduced CBF group 
compared with that of the intact CBF group, while there was no significant 
difference in the WAIS-III scores and ADL scale between the two groups.
CONCLUSION: Although this result was conducted with a small sample size, 
executive dysfunction correlates with reduced CBF in the frontal lobes of SAH 
patients. A detailed evaluation of executive function is suggested in SAH 
patients, even if the patient's intelligence test and ADL scale reveal no 
abnormalities.

DOI: 10.3109/02699052.2013.847209
PMID: 24144107 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1314. Pers Soc Psychol Bull. 2014 Feb;40(2):139-52. doi: 10.1177/0146167213507088. 
Epub 2013 Oct 21.

Mental contrasting and transfer of energization.

Sevincer AT(1), Busatta PD, Oettingen G.

Author information:
(1)1University of Hamburg, Germany.

Mental contrasting a desired future with present reality is a self-regulation 
strategy that fosters energization in line with a person's expectations of 
successfully attaining the desired future. We investigated whether physiological 
energization (measured by systolic blood pressure) elicited by mental 
contrasting a desired future of solving a given task transfers to effort in an 
unrelated task. As predicted, mental contrasting a desired future of excelling 
in an intelligence test (Study 1) and of writing an excellent essay (Study 2) 
triggered changes in energization that translated into physical effort in 
squeezing a handgrip (Study 1) and translated into mental effort in writing a 
get-well letter (Study 2). Results suggest that mental contrasting of solving 
one task triggers energization that may fuel effort for performing an unrelated 
task. Implications for intervention research are discussed.

DOI: 10.1177/0146167213507088
PMID: 24145296 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1315. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2013 Nov 5;110(45):18116-20. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.1302751110. Epub 2013 Oct 21.

Number sense in infancy predicts mathematical abilities in childhood.

Starr A(1), Libertus ME, Brannon EM.

Author information:
(1)Center for Cognitive Neuroscience and Department of Psychology and 
Neuroscience, Duke University, Durham, NC 27708.

Human infants in the first year of life possess an intuitive sense of number. 
This preverbal number sense may serve as a developmental building block for the 
uniquely human capacity for mathematics. In support of this idea, several 
studies have demonstrated that nonverbal number sense is correlated with 
mathematical abilities in children and adults. However, there has been no direct 
evidence that infant numerical abilities are related to mathematical abilities 
later in childhood. Here, we provide evidence that preverbal number sense in 
infancy predicts mathematical abilities in preschool-aged children. Numerical 
preference scores at 6 months of age correlated with both standardized math test 
scores and nonsymbolic number comparison scores at 3.5 years of age, suggesting 
that preverbal number sense facilitates the acquisition of numerical symbols and 
mathematical abilities. This relationship held even after controlling for 
general intelligence, indicating that preverbal number sense imparts a unique 
contribution to mathematical ability. These results validate the many prior 
studies purporting to show number sense in infancy and support the hypothesis 
that mathematics is built upon an intuitive sense of number that predates 
language.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1302751110
PMCID: PMC3831472
PMID: 24145427 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


1316. Endocr Connect. 2013 Nov 11;2(4):225-35. doi: 10.1530/EC-13-0065. Print 2013.

3-M syndrome: a growth disorder associated with IGF2 silencing.

Murray PG(1), Hanson D, Coulson T, Stevens A, Whatmore A, Poole RL, Mackay DJ, 
Black GC, Clayton PE.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Paediatrics and Child Health, Institute of Human Development, 
Faculty of Medical and Human Sciences, University of Manchester, UK Faculty of 
Medicine, University of Southampton, Southampton, UK Centre for Genetic 
Medicine, Institute of Human Development, Faculty of Medical and Human Sciences, 
University of Manchester, UK 5th Floor Research, Royal Manchester Children's 
Hospital, Central Manchester University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, 
Manchester Academic Health Sciences Centre, Oxford Road, Manchester M13 9WL, UK 
Genetic Medicine, St Mary's Hospital, Central Manchester University Hospitals 
NHS Foundation Trust, Manchester Academic Health Sciences Centre, Oxford Road, 
Manchester M13 9WL, UK.

3-M syndrome is an autosomal recessive disorder characterised by pre- and 
post-natal growth restriction, facial dysmorphism, normal intelligence and 
radiological features (slender long bones and tall vertebral bodies). It is 
known to be caused by mutations in the genes encoding cullin 7, obscurin-like 1 
and coiled-coil domain containing 8. The mechanisms through which mutations in 
these genes impair growth are unclear. The aim of this study was to identify 
novel pathways involved in the growth impairment in 3-M syndrome. RNA was 
extracted from fibroblast cell lines derived from four 3-M syndrome patients and 
three control subjects, hybridised to Affymetrix HU 133 plus 2.0 arrays with 
quantitative real-time PCR used to confirm changes found on microarray. IGF-II 
protein levels in conditioned cell culture media were measured by ELISA. Of the 
top 10 downregulated probesets, three represented IGF2 while H19 was identified 
as the 23rd most upregulated probeset. QRT-PCR confirmed upregulation of H19 
(P<0.001) and downregulation of IGF2 (P<0.001). Levels of IGF-II secreted into 
conditioned cell culture medium were higher for control fibroblasts than those 
for 3-M fibroblasts (10.2±2.9 vs 0.6±0.9 ng/ml, P<0.01). 3-M syndrome is 
associated with a gene expression profile of reduced IGF2 expression and 
increased H19 expression similar to that found in Silver-Russell syndrome. Loss 
of autocrine IGF-II in the growth plate may be associated with the short stature 
seen in children with 3-M syndrome.

DOI: 10.1530/EC-13-0065
PMCID: PMC3847915
PMID: 24148222


1317. Genome Biol. 2013;14(10):R116. doi: 10.1186/gb-2013-14-10-r116.

Open-Phylo: a customizable crowd-computing platform for multiple sequence 
alignment.

Kwak D, Kam A, Becerra D, Zhou Q, Hops A, Zarour E, Kam A, Sarmenta L, 
Blanchette M, Waldispühl J.

Citizen science games such as Galaxy Zoo, Foldit, and Phylo aim to harness the 
intelligence and processing power generated by crowds of online gamers to solve 
scientific problems. However, the selection of the data to be analyzed through 
these games is under the exclusive control of the game designers, and so are the 
results produced by gamers. Here, we introduce Open-Phylo, a freely accessible 
crowd-computing platform that enables any scientist to enter our system and use 
crowds of gamers to assist computer programs in solving one of the most 
fundamental problems in genomics: the multiple sequence alignment problem.

DOI: 10.1186/gb-2013-14-10-r116
PMCID: PMC4014878
PMID: 24148814 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1318. J Sports Sci Med. 2013 Mar 1;12(1):27-37. eCollection 2013.

Artificial intelligence in sports on the example of weight training.

Novatchkov H(1), Baca A.

Author information:
(1)University of Vienna, Centre for Sport Science and University Sports , Auf 
der Schmelz 6A, 1150 Vienna, Austria.

The overall goal of the present study was to illustrate the potential of 
artificial intelligence (AI) techniques in sports on the example of weight 
training. The research focused in particular on the implementation of pattern 
recognition methods for the evaluation of performed exercises on training 
machines. The data acquisition was carried out using way and cable force sensors 
attached to various weight machines, thereby enabling the measurement of 
essential displacement and force determinants during training. On the basis of 
the gathered data, it was consequently possible to deduce other significant 
characteristics like time periods or movement velocities. These parameters were 
applied for the development of intelligent methods adapted from conventional 
machine learning concepts, allowing an automatic assessment of the exercise 
technique and providing individuals with appropriate feedback. In practice, the 
implementation of such techniques could be crucial for the investigation of the 
quality of the execution, the assistance of athletes but also coaches, the 
training optimization and for prevention purposes. For the current study, the 
data was based on measurements from 15 rather inexperienced participants, 
performing 3-5 sets of 10-12 repetitions on a leg press machine. The initially 
preprocessed data was used for the extraction of significant features, on which 
supervised modeling methods were applied. Professional trainers were involved in 
the assessment and classification processes by analyzing the video recorded 
executions. The so far obtained modeling results showed good performance and 
prediction outcomes, indicating the feasibility and potency of AI techniques in 
assessing performances on weight training equipment automatically and providing 
sportsmen with prompt advice. Key pointsArtificial intelligence is a promising 
field for sport-related analysis.Implementations integrating pattern recognition 
techniques enable the automatic evaluation of data measurements.Artificial 
neural networks applied for the analysis of weight training data show good 
performance and high classification rates.

PMCID: PMC3761781
PMID: 24149722


1319. Front Genet. 2013 Oct 18;4:195. doi: 10.3389/fgene.2013.00195. eCollection 2013.

New insights into the genetic mechanism of IQ in autism spectrum disorders.

Wang HZ(1), Qin HD, Guo W, Samuels J, Shugart YY.

Author information:
(1)Unit on Statistical Genomics, Intramural Research Program, National Institute 
of Mental Health, National Institutes of Health Bethesda, MD, USA.

Autism spectrum disorders (ASD) comprise a number of underlying sub-types with 
various symptoms and presumably different genetic causes. One important 
difference between these sub-phenotypes is IQ. Some forms of ASD such as 
Asperger's have relatively intact intelligence while the majority does not. In 
this study, we explored the role of genetic factors that might account for this 
difference. Using a case-control study based on IQ status in 1657 ASD probands, 
we analyzed both common and rare variants provided by the Autism Genome Project 
(AGP) consortium via dbGaP (database of Genotypes and Phenotypes). We identified 
a set of genes, among them HLA-DRB1 and KIAA0319L, which are strongly associated 
with IQ within a population of ASD patients.

DOI: 10.3389/fgene.2013.00195
PMCID: PMC3799005
PMID: 24151499


1320. J Ment Health Res Intellect Disabil. 2013;6(4):268-279. doi: 
10.1080/19315864.2012.683932.

Musicality Correlates With Sociability and Emotionality in Williams Syndrome.

Ng R(1), Lai P, Levitin DJ, Bellugi U.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory for Cognitive Neuroscience, Salk Institute for Biological Studies, 
La Jolla, California.

Williams Syndrome (WS) is a neurogenetic developmental disorder characterized by 
peaks and valleys of cognitive abilities. One peak that has been understudied is 
the affinity that many individuals with WS have toward music. It remains unknown 
whether their high levels of musical interest, skill and expressivity are 
related to their sociable personality or their verbal intelligence. We examined 
the relationships between musicality (musical interest, creativity and 
expressivity), sociability (social-emotionality, social approach) and language 
comprehension in WS and typically developing (TD) controls. Findings suggest 
that emotion-expressivity through music in WS may be linked to their sensitivity 
and responsivity to emotions of others, whereas general interest in music may be 
related to greater linguistic capacity in TD individuals. Musicality and 
sociability may be more closely related in WS relative than in typical 
development; implications for future interventions for this neurodevelopmental 
condition will be discussed.

DOI: 10.1080/19315864.2012.683932
PMCID: PMC3799913
PMID: 24151530


1321. Virulence. 2013 Nov 15;4(8):745-51. doi: 10.4161/viru.26893. Epub 2013 Oct 23.

Biosurveillance enterprise for operational awareness, a genomic-based approach 
for tracking pathogen virulence.

Valdivia-Granda WA(1).

Author information:
(1)Orion Integrated Biosciences Inc.; New Rochelle, NY USA.

To protect our civilians and warfighters against both known and unknown 
pathogens, biodefense stakeholders must be able to foresee possible 
technological trends that could affect their threat risk assessment. However, 
significant flaws in how we prioritize our countermeasure-needs continue to 
limit their development. As recombinant biotechnology becomes increasingly 
simplified and inexpensive, small groups, and even individuals, can now achieve 
the design, synthesis, and production of pathogenic organisms for offensive 
purposes. Under these daunting circumstances, a reliable biosurveillance 
approach that supports a diversity of users could better provide early warnings 
about the emergence of new pathogens (both natural and manmade), reverse 
engineer pathogens carrying traits to avoid available countermeasures, and 
suggest the most appropriate detection, prophylactic, and therapeutic solutions. 
While impressive in data mining capabilities, real-time content analysis of 
social media data misses much of the complexity in the factual reality. Quality 
issues within freeform user-provided hashtags and biased referencing can 
significantly undermine our confidence in the information obtained to make 
critical decisions about the natural vs. intentional emergence of a pathogen. At 
the same time, errors in pathogen genomic records, the narrow scope of most 
databases, and the lack of standards and interoperability across different 
detection and diagnostic devices, continue to restrict the multidimensional 
biothreat assessment. The fragmentation of our biosurveillance efforts into 
different approaches has stultified attempts to implement any new foundational 
enterprise that is more reliable, more realistic and that avoids the scenario of 
the warning that comes too late. This discussion focus on the development of 
genomic-based decentralized medical intelligence and laboratory system to track 
emerging and novel microbial health threats in both military and civilian 
settings and the use of virulence factors for risk assessment. Examples of the 
use of motif fingerprints for pathogen discrimination are provided.

DOI: 10.4161/viru.26893
PMCID: PMC3925708
PMID: 24152965 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1322. J Learn Disabil. 2015 Jul-Aug;48(4):422-32. doi: 10.1177/0022219413507604. Epub 
2013 Oct 23.

Test Anxiety Among College Students With Specific Reading Disability (Dyslexia): 
Nonverbal Ability and Working Memory as Predictors.

Nelson JM(1), Lindstrom W(2), Foels PA(2).

Author information:
(1)University of Georgia, Regents' Center for Learning Disorders, Athens, USA 
jmnelson@uga.edu.
(2)University of Georgia, Regents' Center for Learning Disorders, Athens, USA.

Test anxiety and its correlates were examined with college students with and 
without specific reading disability (RD; n = 50 in each group). Results 
indicated that college students with RD reported higher test anxiety than did 
those without RD, and the magnitude of these differences was in the medium range 
on two test anxiety scales. Relative to college students without RD, up to 5 
times as many college students with RD reported clinically significant test 
anxiety. College students with RD reported significantly higher cognitively 
based test anxiety than physically based test anxiety. Reading skills, verbal 
ability, and processing speed were not correlated with test anxiety. General 
intelligence, nonverbal ability, and working memory were negatively correlated 
with test anxiety, and the magnitude of these correlations was medium to large. 
When these three cognitive constructs were considered together in multiple 
regression analyses, only working memory and nonverbal ability emerged as 
significant predictors and varied based on the test anxiety measure. 
Implications for assessment and intervention are discussed.

© Hammill Institute on Disabilities 2013.

DOI: 10.1177/0022219413507604
PMID: 24153402 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1323. J Ultrasound Med. 2013 Nov;32(11):1933-8. doi: 10.7863/ultra.32.11.1933.

Clinical outcomes of mild isolated cerebral ventriculomegaly in the presence of 
other neurodevelopmental risk factors.

Ball JD(1), Abuhamad AZ, Mason JL, Burket J, Katz E, Deutsch SI.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Eastern Virginia Medical 
School, 825 Fairfax Ave, Suite 710, Norfolk, VA 23507-1912 USA. 
deutscsi@evms.edu.

OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this study was to evaluate neuropsychological test 
data in school-aged children whose fetal sonograms revealed mild isolated 
cerebral ventriculomegaly without asymmetry of the lateral ventricles.
METHODS: Nine of 52 children 6 years and older with sonographic evidence of mild 
isolated cerebral ventriculomegaly without asymmetry of the lateral ventricles 
were able to be recruited for follow-up school-aged neuropsychological testing. 
The children received a half-day battery of neuropsychological tests, including 
the Wechsler Abbreviated Scales of Intelligence; Beery-Buktenica Developmental 
Test of Visual Motor Integration, Fifth Edition; Wide Range Achievement Test, 
Fourth Edition; and Integrated Visual and Auditory Continuous Performance Test. 
Parents completed the Conners 3 Parent Short Form and the Personality Inventory 
for Children, Second Edition.
RESULTS: In this small group, other risk factors for neurodevelopmental 
disorders were often present, including preterm birth, perinatal hypoxia, and a 
family history of psychiatric disease or substance abuse. Within this sample, 
the proportion of children with a pattern of test results showing poorer 
nonverbal intelligence than verbal intelligence scores and poorer math than 
reading performance, as well as meeting criteria for a diagnosis of attention 
deficit/hyperactivity disorder, was higher than the basal rates of these 
problems among children in general.
CONCLUSIONS: Particularly given the complexity of various factors affecting 
neurodevelopment, follow-up neuropsychological evaluation is warranted in 
children with sonographic evidence of mild isolated cerebral ventriculomegaly 
without asymmetry of the lateral ventricle (eg, in the context of poor school 
performance).

DOI: 10.7863/ultra.32.11.1933
PMID: 24154896 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1324. PLoS One. 2013 Oct 14;8(10):e78062. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0078062. 
eCollection 2013.

Inflexible minds: impaired attention switching in recent-onset schizophrenia.

Smid HG(1), Martens S, de Witte MR, Bruggeman R.

Author information:
(1)University of Groningen, University Medical Center Groningen, University 
Center of Psychiatry, Groningen, The Netherlands.

Impairment of sustained attention is assumed to be a core cognitive abnormality 
in schizophrenia. However, this seems inconsistent with a recent hypothesis that 
in schizophrenia the implementation of selection (i.e., sustained attention) is 
intact but the control of selection (i.e., switching the focus of attention) is 
impaired. Mounting evidence supports this hypothesis, indicating that switching 
of attention is a bigger problem in schizophrenia than maintaining the focus of 
attention. To shed more light on this hypothesis, we tested whether 
schizophrenia patients are impaired relative to controls in sustaining 
attention, switching attention, or both. Fifteen patients with recent-onset 
schizophrenia and fifteen healthy volunteers, matched on age and intelligence, 
performed sustained attention and attention switching tasks, while performance 
and brain potential measures of selective attention were recorded. In the 
sustained attention task, patients did not differ from the controls on these 
measures. In the attention switching task, however, patients showed worse 
performance than the controls, and early selective attention related brain 
potentials were absent in the patients while clearly present in the controls. 
These findings support the hypothesis that schizophrenia is associated with an 
impairment of the mechanisms that control the direction of attention (attention 
switching), while the mechanisms that implement a direction of attention 
(sustained attention) are intact.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0078062
PMCID: PMC3796474
PMID: 24155980 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


1325. Eur Neurol. 2013;70(5-6):308-15. doi: 10.1159/000353991. Epub 2013 Oct 19.

Clinical, psychosocial, and central correlates of quality of life in myotonic 
dystrophy type 1 patients.

Laberge L(1), Mathieu J, Auclair J, Gagnon É, Noreau L, Gagnon C.

Author information:
(1)ÉCOBES Recherche et transfert, Cégep de Jonquière, Québec, Qué., Canada.

AIMS: To identify sociodemographic, clinical, and central correlates of 
health-related quality of life (HRQoL) in DM1 patients.
METHODS: 200 DM1 patients had assessments of muscular impairment, CTG repeats, 
and intelligence. Validated instruments were used to assess sociodemographic and 
clinical factors as well as social support, social participation, daytime 
sleepiness, fatigue, personality, mood, and quality of life. Regression analysis 
was used to identify correlates of SF-36 physical and mental component summary 
scores.
RESULTS: Patients scored lower on all SF-36 physical health subscales compared 
with normative data but did not differ with respect to mental health function. 
Regression analysis revealed that psychological distress, fatigue, severe 
muscular impairment, emotional stability, not having worked within the last 12 
months, and lower intellectual quotient were associated with lower scores in 
physical health function. Moreover, neuroticism, daytime sleepiness, 
dissatisfaction with social participation, and lower conscientiousness were 
associated with lower scores in mental health function.
CONCLUSION: DM1 has an impact on SF-36 physical summary scores but not on mental 
summary scores. Factors such as fatigue, daytime sleepiness, psychological 
distress, unemployment, and social participation dissatisfaction that 
significantly affect HRQoL in DM1 are amenable to treatment and psychosocial 
interventions, namely by providing care that integrate health, social, and 
community services.

Copyright © 2013 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000353991
PMID: 24158106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1326. Orthopade. 2013 Dec;42(12):1038-46. doi: 10.1007/s00132-012-2052-2.

[Osseous and soft tissue operations for treatment of joint malpositioning in 
infantile cerebral palsy].

[Article in German]

Senst S(1).

Author information:
(1)Abteilung für Kinderorthopädie, Schön Klinik Hamburg-Eilbek, Dehnhaide 120, 
22081 , Hamburg, Deutschland, St.senst@gmail.com.

If untreated infantile cerebral palsy (ICP) leads to a progressive shortening of 
muscles and to progressive joint malpositioning. In addition a number of other 
disorders also result, in particular sensory disorders, intelligence deficits 
and epilepsy. In order to optimally treat as many as possible of the problems of 
multi-handicapped children with ICP it is of immanent importance that 
physiotherapists, occupational therapists, speech therapists, orthopedic 
technicians, pediatric orthopedists as well as neuropediatricians and social 
pediatricians work as a team. Surgical measures to correct joint malpositioning 
serve to improve the function and also to avoid or alleviate pain. Functional 
improvement measures are ideally undertaken during or shortly before elementary 
school age, thus enabling a further verticalization/straightening and 
mobilization. To improve symmetry and therefore the sitting posture, surgery is 
also indicated for profoundly disabled patients, sometimes making foot 
operations necessary. It is only in this way that maximum participation can be 
guaranteed and if necessary utilizing additional aids, such as Zimmer frames or 
E-wheelchairs.

DOI: 10.1007/s00132-012-2052-2
PMID: 24158389 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1327. Osong Public Health Res Perspect. 2013 Aug;4(4):215-21. doi: 
10.1016/j.phrp.2013.07.001. Epub 2013 Jul 23.

Epidemic intelligence service officers and field epidemiology training program 
in Korea.

Kwon GY(1), Moon S, Kwak W, Gwack J, Chu C, Youn SK.

Author information:
(1)Division of Epidemic Intelligence Service, Korea Centers for Disease Control 
and Prevention, Osong, Korea.

Korea has adopted Epidemic Intelligence Service (EIS) officers through the Field 
Epidemiology Training Program (FETP) since 1999 for systematic control of 
emerging and re-emerging infectious diseases. Graduates of medical schools in 
Korea are selected and serve as public health doctors (PHDs) for their mandatory 
military service. The duration of service is 3 years and PHDs comprise general 
practitioners and specialists. Some PHDs are selected as EIS officers with 3 
weeks basic FETP training and work for central and provincial public health 
authorities to conduct epidemiological investigations. The total number of EIS 
officers is 31 as of 2012. The Korea Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 
(KCDC) has 12 specialists, whereas specialists and each province has one or two 
EIS officers to administer local epidemiological investigations in 253 public 
health centers. The Korean EIS officers have successfully responded and 
prevented infectious diseases, but there is a unique limitation: the number of 
PHDs in Korea is decreasing and PHDs are not allowed to stay outside Korea, 
which makes it difficult to cope with overseas infectious diseases. Furthermore, 
after 3 years service, they quit and their experiences are not accumulated. KCDC 
has hired full-time EIS officers since 2012 to overcome this limitation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phrp.2013.07.001
PMCID: PMC3767107
PMID: 24159559


1328. J Pediatr. 2014 Jan;164(1):123-129.e1. doi: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2013.09.026. Epub 
2013 Oct 22.

Motor outcomes in children exposed to early psychosocial deprivation.

Levin AR(1), Zeanah CH Jr(2), Fox NA(3), Nelson CA(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Boston Children's Hospital/Harvard Medical School, 
Boston, MA; Laboratories of Cognitive Neuroscience, Boston Children's 
Hospital/Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA. Electronic address: 
April.Levin@childrens.harvard.edu.
(2)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Tulane University School of 
Medicine, New Orleans, LA.
(3)Department of Human Development and Quantitative Methodology, University of 
Maryland, College Park, MD.
(4)Laboratories of Cognitive Neuroscience, Boston Children's Hospital/Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, MA; Center on the Developing Child at Harvard 
University, Cambridge, MA.

OBJECTIVES: To determine the effect of psychosocial deprivation early in life on 
motor development, assess the impact of a foster care intervention on improving 
motor development, and assess the association between motor and cognitive 
outcomes in children with a history of institutional care.
STUDY DESIGN: In a randomized controlled trial, children living in Romanian 
institutions were randomly assigned to care as usual in the institution or 
placed in family-centered foster care as part of the Bucharest Early 
Intervention Project. The average age at placement into foster care was 23 
months. At age 8 years, the Bruininks-Oseretsky Test of Motor Proficiency, 
Second Edition, Short Form (BOT2-SF) was applied to assess the motor proficiency 
of children in both groups, as well as a never-institutionalized group from the 
Romanian community.
RESULTS: Children in the never-institutionalized group did significantly better 
on the BOT2-SF than children who had ever been institutionalized (P < .001). 
There was no significant difference in performance between children in the care 
as usual group and the foster care group. This finding also held true for all 
individual items on the BOT2-SF except sit-ups. Regression analyses revealed 
that the between-group and within-group differences in BOT2-SF scores were 
largely mediated by IQ.
CONCLUSION: Early deprivation had a negative effect on motor development that 
was not resolved by placement in foster care. This effect was predominantly 
mediated by IQ. This study highlights the importance of monitoring for and 
addressing motor delays in children with a history of institutionalization, 
particularly those children with low IQ.

Copyright © 2014 Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2013.09.026
PMCID: PMC4059764
PMID: 24161221 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


1329. Ann Dyslexia. 2014 Apr;64(1):1-33. doi: 10.1007/s11881-013-0083-y. Epub 2013 Oct 
26.

Project DyAdd: implicit learning in adult dyslexia and ADHD.

Laasonen M(1), Väre J, Oksanen-Hennah H, Leppämäki S, Tani P, Harno H, Hokkanen 
L, Pothos E, Cleeremans A.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cognitive and Neuropsychology, Institute of Behavioural Sciences, 
University of Helsinki, P.O. Box 9, Siltavuorenpenger 1, FIN-00014, Helsinki, 
Finland, marja.laasonen@helsinki.fi.

In this study of the project DyAdd, implicit learning was investigated through 
two paradigms in adults (18-55 years) with dyslexia (n = 36) or with attention 
deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD, n = 22) and in controls (n = 35). In the 
serial reaction time (SRT) task, there were no group differences in learning. 
However, those with ADHD exhibited faster RTs compared to other groups. In the 
artificial grammar learning (AGL) task, the groups did not differ from each 
other in their learning (i.e., grammaticality accuracy or similarity choices). 
Further, all three groups were sensitive to fragment overlap between learning 
and test-phase items (i.e., similarity choices were above chance). 
Grammaticality performance of control participants was above chance, but that of 
participants with dyslexia and participants with ADHD failed to differ from 
chance, indicating impaired grammaticality learning in these groups. While the 
main indices of AGL performance, grammaticality accuracy and similarity choices 
did not correlate with the neuropsychological variables that reflected 
dyslexia-related (phonological processing, reading, spelling, arithmetic) or 
ADHD-related characteristics (executive functions, attention), or intelligence, 
the explicit knowledge for the AGL grammar (i.e., ability to freely generate 
grammatical strings) correlated positively with the variables of phonological 
processing and reading. Further, SRT reaction times correlated positively with 
full scale intelligence quotient (FIQ). We conclude that, in AGL, learning 
difficulties of the underlying rule structure (as measured by grammaticality) 
are associated with dyslexia and ADHD. However, learning in AGL is not related 
to the defining neuropsychological features of dyslexia or ADHD. Instead, the 
resulting explicit knowledge relates to characteristics of dyslexia.

DOI: 10.1007/s11881-013-0083-y
PMID: 24162872 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1330. Gesundheitswesen. 2013 Nov;75(11):775-81. doi: 10.1055/s-0033-1357168. Epub 2013 
Oct 25.

[The relationships of intelligence and memory assessed using the WAIS-IV and the 
WMS-IV].

[Article in German]

Lepach AC(1), Daseking M, Petermann F, Waldmann HC.

Author information:
(1)Zentrum für Klinische Psychologie und Rehabilitation der Universität Bremen.

BACKGROUND: This study examines the relationships of intelligence and memory 
scores derived from WAIS-IV and WMS-IV. We were especially interested in the 
reciprocal predictive values of the test scales.
METHODS: A sample of 137 healthy adults with an age range between 16 and 69 
years was assessed with the WAIS-IV and the WMS-IV. The test order was balanced. 
Pearson correlations were conducted on the subtest and scale level. A series of 
14 linear regression models was tested with memory performance as predictor for 
intelligence and vice versa.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSION: A model including the 3 main memory scales of the WMS-IV 
was able to predict the global IQ best. It nevertheless explained only 46% of 
the variance. The memory and intelligence measures show significant 
relationships, but also represent distinct functions. WAIS-IV and WMS-IV 
complement one another.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0033-1357168
PMID: 24163216 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1331. Gesundheitswesen. 2013 Nov;75(11):761-7. doi: 10.1055/s-0033-1357164. Epub 2013 
Oct 25.

[The assessment and course of development of cognitive abilities in the 
elderly].

[Article in German]

Stemmler M(1), Petermann F, Daseking M, Siebert J, Schott H, Lehfeld H, Horn R.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Psychologie der Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg.

BACKGROUND: The assessment of the appropriate level of development in children 
belongs to the standard duties of physicians in the public health system. Due to 
a steady increase of dementia in Germany the assessment of cognitive abilities 
of the elderly is becoming more and more the focus of future activities. Such an 
assessment of cognitive functioning reveals whether the respective person is 
aging normally or whether the impaired cognitive functioning is probably based 
on a pathological process.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of the present study is to present cognitive changes in the 
aged and 2 psychometric tests for the assessment of cognitive functioning: the 
Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale (WAIS-IV) and the Short Cognitive Performance 
Test (SKT), a test for the assessment of memory impairments and impairment of 
attention. In addition, similarities and dissimilarities are presented.
METHODS: As part of a multi-centre study in German-speaking countries the data 
of 504 cognitively healthy persons between the age of 60 and 90 were tested with 
the WAIS-IV and the SKT.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSION: The results revealed a significant cognitive decline in 
the fluid and crystal intelligence depending on age. Only 2 subtests of the 
WAIS-IV (General Information and Block Design) showed no significant variation 
due to age. The SKT scores of memory and attention correlated significantly with 
almost all subtests of the WAIS-IV. The highest correlations were between the 
SKT attention score and the WAIS-IV subtests for processing speed, perceptual 
reasoning and working memory. The decline in cognitive abilities is mainly due 
to reduced capacities in speed of information processing and working memory.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0033-1357164
PMID: 24163218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1332. Dtsch Arztebl Int. 2013 Sep;110(39):643-52. doi: 10.3238/arztebl.2013.0643. Epub 
2013 Sep 27.

The efficacy of cognitive training programs in children and adolescents: a 
meta-analysis.

Karch D(1), Albers L, Renner G, Lichtenauer N, von Kries R.

Author information:
(1)Clinic of Pediatric Neurology and Social Pediatrics, Children Center 
Maulbronn.

Comment in
    Dtsch Arztebl Int. 2014 Feb 7;111(6):99.
    Dtsch Arztebl Int. 2014 Feb 7;111(6):99.

BACKGROUND: Cognitive therapies are intended to improve basic cognitive 
functions, whatever the cause of the deficiency may be. Children and adolescents 
with various cognitive deficits are treated with behavioral therapeutic and 
computer-supported training programs. We here report the first meta-analysis of 
the efficacy of such programs.
METHODS: We systematically searched the Medline, Embase, PsycINFO, PSYNDEX, and 
ERIC databases to find pertinent publications for a meta-analysis of cognitive 
training programs that are used in children and adolescents to improve 
attention, memory, and executive performance (primary goals) as well as 
behavior/psychopathology, intelligence, and school performance (secondary 
goals). The mean differences between the treatment and control groups are given 
here as standard deviation (SD) scores.
RESULTS: 1661 potentially relevant publications were found, including 22 studies 
that were considered in the meta-analysis, 17 of which were randomized 
controlled trials. The target variables were measured with more than 90 
different testing techniques. The overall effects of cognitive training on 
attention (SD 0.18, 95% CI -0.11-0.47) and executive function (SD 0.17, 95% CI 
-0.12-0.46) were consistently small. A relatively strong effect was found on 
memory performance (0.65 SD, 95% [-0.12-1.42), albeit with marked heterogeneity 
(I (2)= 82%) owing to two studies. The largest effect was found in the area of 
behavior and psychopathology (SD 0.58, 95% CI 0.31-0.85), but this last figure 
is derived mainly from studies that lacked an active control group.
CONCLUSION: Cognitive therapies for children and adolescents have generally 
favorable, but probably nonspecific effects on behavior. On the other hand, the 
specific effects, however, were weak overall. Therapeutic benefit has been 
demonstrated only for certain individual types of therapy for specific 
indications.

DOI: 10.3238/arztebl.2013.0643
PMCID: PMC3804756
PMID: 24163706 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1333. J Interprof Care. 2014 Mar;28(2):157-9. doi: 10.3109/13561820.2013.847407. Epub 
2013 Oct 28.

Interprofessional social and emotional intelligence skills training: study 
findings and key lessons.

Flowers LK(1), Thomas-Squance R, Brainin-Rodriguez JE, Yancey AK.

Author information:
(1)Equilibrium Dynamics , San Francisco, CA , USA .

Frequently changing demands in health care systems have focused attention on the 
need for emotional competence (EC) - social and emotional intelligence skills, 
to adapt efficiently, responsively and productively. This paper reports on 
findings from a workshop that introduced practical EC skills to nearly 1000 
participants in education, medicine, mental health and substance abuse 
counseling. The holistic EC presentations were designed to teach concepts and 
principles providing each participant with the opportunity for individualized 
learning. Ninety percent of the participants rated these presentations as 
valuable and useful. Following this positive response, the approach was adapted 
to train health professionals serving diverse populations. This report shares 
our experience teaching various professionals and describes preliminarily 
testing of the adapted EC training program on a small group of health 
professionals, whose responsibilities included teamwork, program design, 
teaching clients and patients EC basics to support healthy practices and 
self-care. Their positive response supports the need for expanded study and 
further investigation.

DOI: 10.3109/13561820.2013.847407
PMID: 24164409 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1334. Ear Hear. 2013 Nov-Dec;34(6):722-32. doi: 10.1097/AUD.0b013e3182994eee.

Decline in older persons' ability to recognize speech in noise: the influence of 
demographic, health-related, environmental, and cognitive factors.

Pronk M(1), Deeg DJ, Festen JM, Twisk JW, Smits C, Comijs HC, Kramer SE.

Author information:
(1)Departments of 1Ear Nose Throat/Audiology, 2Epidemiology and Biostatistics, 
3Psychiatry/GGZ inGeest, VU University Medical Center, EMGO Institute for Health 
and Care Research, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; and 4Department of Health 
Sciences, Faculty of Earth and Life Sciences, VU University Amsterdam, the 
Netherlands.

OBJECTIVES: The first aim was to investigate whether the rate of decline in 
older persons' ability to recognize speech in noise over time differs across age 
and gender. The second aim was to determine extent demographic, health-related, 
environmental, and cognitive factors influence the change in speech-in-noise 
recognition over time.
DESIGN: Data covering 3 to 7 years of follow-up (mean: 4.9 years) of a large 
sample of the Longitudinal Aging Study Amsterdam were used (n = 1298; 3025 
observations; baseline ages: 57 to 93 years). Hearing ability was measured by a 
digit triplet speech-in-noise test (SNT) yielding a speech reception threshold 
in noise (SRTn). Multilevel analyses were used to model the change in SRTn over 
time. First, interaction terms were used to test differences in rate of decline 
across subgroups. Second, for each of the following factors the authors 
determined the influence on the change in SRTn: age, gender, educational level, 
cardiovascular conditions, information processing speed, fluid intelligence, 
global cognitive functioning, smoking, and alcohol use. This was done by 
calculating the percentage change in Btime after adding the particular factor to 
the model.
RESULTS: On average, respondents' SRTn increased (i.e., deteriorated) 
significantly over time by 0.18 dB signal-to-noise ratio per annum. Rates were 
accelerated for older ages (Btime = 0.13, 0.14, 0.25, 0.27 for persons who were 
57 to 65, 65 to 75, 75 to 85, and 85 to 93 years of age, respectively). Only 
information processing speed relevantly influenced the change in SRTn over time 
(17% decrease in Btime).
CONCLUSIONS: Decline in older persons' speech-in-noise recognition over time 
accelerated for older ages. Decline in information processing speed explained a 
moderate proportion of the SRTn decline. This indicates the relevance of 
declining cognitive abilities in the ability of older persons to recognize 
speech in noisy environments.

DOI: 10.1097/AUD.0b013e3182994eee
PMID: 24165301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1335. Gesundheitswesen. 2013 Nov;75(11):768-74. doi: 10.1055/s-0033-1357163. Epub 2013 
Oct 28.

[Relationship between self-reported ADHD symptoms and WAIS-IV performance].

[Article in German]

Theiling J(1), Petermann F, Daseking M.

Author information:
(1)Zentrum für Klinische Psychologie und Rehabilitation der Universität Bremen.

This study has examined the relationship between cognitive functions and 
self-reported symptoms in ADHD adults. Cognitive functions were investigated 
with the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-IV (WAIS-IV) in N=113 ADHD adults. 
The severity of self-reported symptoms was based on a screening questionnaire 
(ADHS-E). Results indicated only weak correlations between self-reported ADHD 
symptoms and WAIS-IV performance. The ADHS-E scale "Emotion & Affect" accounted 
for a small but significant variance on most WAIS-IV indices and turned out to 
be the most important variable to explain performance. The findings suggest that 
concurrent and discrepant information contribute to a differentiated examination 
on adult ADHD and that both objective performance diagnostics and self-reports 
complement each other within the diagnostic process.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0033-1357163
PMID: 24165919 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1336. Am J Med Genet B Neuropsychiatr Genet. 2014 Jan;165B(1):41-51. doi: 
10.1002/ajmg.b.32203. Epub 2013 Oct 26.

Impaired response inhibition is associated with self-reported symptoms of 
depression, anxiety, and ADHD in female FMR1 premutation carriers.

Kraan CM(1), Hocking DR, Georgiou-Karistianis N, Metcalfe SA, Archibald AD, 
Fielding J, Trollor J, Bradshaw JL, Cohen J, Cornish KM.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, Nursing, and Health Sciences, School of Psychology & 
Psychiatry, Monash University, Clayton, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.

Fragile X Mental Retardation 1 (FMR1) premutation carriers (PM-carriers) have a 
defective trinucleotide expansion on the FMR1 gene that is associated with 
continuum of neuropsychological and mental disorders. Currently, little is known 
about the distinct subcomponents of executive function potentially impaired in 
female PM-carriers, and there have been no investigations into associations 
between executive function and incidences of mental disorders. A total of 35 
female PM-carriers confirmed by Asuragen triple primed PCR DNA testing and 35 
age- and intelligence-matched controls completed tests of executive function 
(i.e., response inhibition and working memory) and self-reported on social 
anxiety, depression, and ADHD predominantly inattentive (ADHD-PI) symptoms. 
Compared to controls, PM-carriers were significantly elevated on self-reported 
social anxiety and ADHD-PI symptoms. Irrespective of mental symptoms, female 
PM-carries performed significantly worse than controls on a response inhibition 
test, and further investigations revealed significant correlations between 
executive function performance and self-reported symptoms of anxiety, depression 
and ADHD-PI. Critically, among PM-carriers with good executive function 
performance, no women exceeded threshold markers for probable caseness of mental 
disorder. However, rates of probable caseness were elevated in those with 
average performance (response inhibition: social anxiety: 41.7%; depression: 
20%; ADHD: 44.4%; working memory: social anxiety: 27.3%; depression: 9.1%; ADHD: 
18.2%) and highly elevated for those with poor executive function performance 
(response inhibition: social anxiety: 58.3%; depression: 80%; ADHD: 55.6%; 
working memory: social anxiety: 100%; depression: 50%; ADHD: 83.3%). These data 
suggest that subtle executive dysfunction may be a useful neuropsychological 
indicator for a range of mental disorders previously reported in female 
PM-carriers.

© 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.b.32203
PMID: 24166828 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1337. Int Psychogeriatr. 2014 Feb;26(2):239-46. doi: 10.1017/S1041610213001762. Epub 
2013 Oct 29.

Effect of methylphenidate on attention in apathetic AD patients in a randomized, 
placebo-controlled trial.

Lanctôt KL(1), Chau SA(1), Herrmann N(1), Drye LT(2), Rosenberg PB(3), Scherer 
RW(2), Black SE(1), Vaidya V(2), Bachman DL(4), Mintzer JE(4).

Author information:
(1)Departments of Psychiatry and Medicine (Neurology), and Brain Sciences 
Research Program, Sunnybrook Research Institute, Departments of Psychiatry, 
Pharmacology/Toxicology and Medicine (Neurology), University of Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada.
(2)Department of Epidemiology, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, 
Baltimore, MD, USA.
(3)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Johns Hopkins University 
School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(4)Department of Neurosciences, Alzheimer's Research and Clinical Programs, 
Medical University of South Carolina, SC, USA.

BACKGROUND: Little is known about the effect of methylphenidate (MPH) on 
attention in Alzheimer's disease (AD). MPH has shown to improve apathy in AD, 
and both apathy and attention have been related to dopaminergic function. The 
goal was to investigate MPH effects on attention in AD and assess the 
relationship between attention and apathy responses.
METHODS: MPH (10 mg PO twice daily) or placebo was administered for six weeks in 
a randomized, double-blind trial in mild-to-moderate AD outpatients with apathy 
(Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI) Apathy ≥ 4). Attention was measured with the 
Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale--Digit Span (DS) subtest (DS forward, 
selective attention) and apathy with the Apathy Evaluation Scale (AES). A mixed 
effects linear regression estimated the difference in change from baseline 
between treatment groups, defined as δ (MPH (DS week 6-DS baseline)) - (placebo 
(DS week 6-DS baseline)).
RESULTS: In 60 patients (37 females, age = 76 ± 8, Mini-Mental State Examination 
(MMSE) = 20 ± 5, NPI Apathy = 7 ± 2), the change in DS forward (δ = 0.87 (95% 
CI: 0.06-1.68), p = 0.03) and DS total (δ = 1.01 (95% CI: 0.09-1.93), p = 0.03) 
favored MPH over placebo. Of 57 completers, 17 patients had improved apathy 
(≥3.3 points on the AES from baseline to end point) and 40 did not. There were 
no significant associations between AES and NPI Apathy with DS change scores in 
the MPH, placebo, AES responder, or non-responder groups. DS scores did not 
predict apathy response to MPH treatment.
CONCLUSION: These results suggest MPH can improve attention and apathy in AD; 
however, the effects appear independent in this population.

DOI: 10.1017/S1041610213001762
PMCID: PMC3927455
PMID: 24169147 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: All authors have 
completed the Unified Competing Interest form at 
www.icmje.org/coi_disclosure.pdf and declare that (1) authors KLL, SC, NH, LTD, 
PBR, RWS, SEB, VV, DLB have no relationships with any companies that might have 
an interest in the submitted work in the previous 3 years; (2) their spouses, 
partners, or children have no financial relationships that may be relevant to 
the submitted work; and (4) have no non-financial interests that may be relevant 
to the submitted work. Author JEM, has relationships with NIA that might have an 
interest in the submitted work in the previous 3 years; (2) his spouses, 
partners, or children have no financial relationships that may be relevant to 
the submitted work; and (4) JEM has no non-financial interests that may be 
relevant to the submitted work.


1338. Rev Neurosci. 2013;24(6):665-75. doi: 10.1515/revneuro-2013-0023.

Music education and its effect on intellectual abilities in children: a 
systematic review.

Jaschke AC, Eggermont LH, Honing H, Scherder EJ.

Far transfer between music education and other cognitive skills, such as 
academic achievement, has been widely examined. However, the results of studies 
within similar cognitive domains are found to be inconclusive or contradictory. 
These differences can be traced back to the analytical methods used, differences 
in the forms of music education studied and differences in neural activation 
during the processing of these tasks. In order to gain a better picture of the 
relationships involved, a literature survey was performed in leading databases, 
such as PubMed/MedLine, psychINFO, ScienceDirect, Embase, ERIC, ASSIA and Jstor 
from January 2001 to January 2013. All studies included, concerned the far 
transfer from music education to other cognitive skills in children aged 4-13 
years as compared with controls. These studies were independently selected and 
their quality was assessed by two authors. This systematic review shows the need 
to address methodological and analytical questions in greater detail. There is a 
general need to unify methods used in music education research. Furthermore, the 
hypothesis that intellectual skills, such as mathematics, reading, writing and 
intelligence can be divided into sub-functions, needs to be examined as one 
approach to the problems considered here. When this has been done, detailed 
analysis of cognitive transfer from music education to other disciplines should 
become possible.

DOI: 10.1515/revneuro-2013-0023
PMID: 24169311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1339. Zhonghua Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2013 Jul 23;93(28):2217-9.

[Electroencephalogram evaluation of hyperphenylalaninemia patients on dietetic 
treatments].

[Article in Chinese]

Wang KD(1), Cui G, Shen M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, China-Japan Friendship Hospital, Ministry of 
Health, Beijing 100029, China.

OBJECTIVE: To explore the electroencephalographic changes of patients with 
hyperphenylalaninemia (HPA) after dietetic treatments.
METHODS: From July 2005 to February 2010, 34 HPA patients with abnormal 
electroencephalograms were recruited from China-Japan Friendship Hospital. Their 
electroencephalographic results and clinical features were compared before and 
after dietetic and antiepileptic treatments. There were 16 males and 18 females 
with an age range of 2 months to 8 years. All electroencephalographic results 
were abnormal. Among them, there were epileptic discharges (n = 17), atypical 
sharp-slow wave complex (n = 1) and slow wave background (n = 16). All patients 
received a low intake of phenylalanine at 13-50 mg·kg(-1)·d(-1). Twenty patients 
had antiepileptic drug therapy. Before and after treatment for 3 months, 6 
months, 1 year and 2 years, blood phenylalanine concentration, 
electroencephalogram, convulsion and other clinical parameters were observed. 
Before and after 1 year treatment, the tests of developmental quotient (DQ) or 
intelligence quotient (IQ) were performed.
RESULTS: The phenylalanine concentrations of the same patient group decreased 
significantly after 3 months, 6 months, 1 and 2 years after dietetic treatment ( 
(0.51 ± 0.39) , (0.50 ± 0.29), (0.59 ± 0.42), (0.53 ± 0.27) vs (1.33 ± 0.64) 
mmol/L, all P = 0.000). Among 19 epileptic cases, 16 ceased after treatment. And 
14 stayed convulsion-free within 3 months post-treatments, 2 cases had 
intermittent tonic-clonic seizures while there was 1 case of focal seizures. 
Fourteen cases withdrew antiepileptic medications or reduced their doses. After 
treatment, the electroencephalographic results became totally normal in 8 of the 
19 epileptic cases. Electroencephalographic results improved in 5 cases versus 
pre-treatment. Spikes were controlled in 10 cases including 5 patients with 
hyperarrhythmia in the abnormal electroencephalographic group with epilepsy. Six 
cases continued abnormal electroencephalogram. In the abnormal 
electroencephalographic group without epilepsy (n = 15) , electroencephalograms 
were normal (n = 3), improved (n = 6) and continued mild abnormal waves (n = 2). 
However, there were 4 cases with deteriorated electroencephalogram and 3 of them 
showed spikes. DQ (IQ) was evaluated in 16 cases. And variable mental 
retardation was observed in all of them. After, year treatment, 7 cases were 
evaluated DQ (IQ), and their results showed improved (57 ± 16 vs 50 ± 16, t = 
-5.42, P = 0.002).
CONCLUSIONS: Etiological treatment for HPA patients is important for controlling 
epilepsy and improving brain function. And electroencephalogram is useful for 
monitoring brain functions and evaluating treatment outcomes.

PMID: 24169333 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1340. Diabetes. 2014 Jan;63(1):343-53. doi: 10.2337/db13-0179. Epub 2013 Oct 29.

Neuroanatomical correlates of dysglycemia in young children with type 1 
diabetes.

Marzelli MJ(1), Mazaika PK, Barnea-Goraly N, Hershey T, Tsalikian E, Tamborlane 
W, Mauras N, White NH, Buckingham B, Beck RW, Ruedy KJ, Kollman C, Cheng P, 
Reiss AL; Diabetes Research in Children Network (DirecNet).

Collaborators: Tsalikian E, Tansey MJ, Coffey J, Cabbage J, Salamati S, Mauras 
N, Fox LA, Cato M, Englert K, Sikes K, Ewen T, Buckingham BA, Wilson DM, Aye T, 
Caswell K, Weinzimer SA, Tamborlane WV, Steffen A, Weyman K, Zgorski M, White 
NH, Arbelaez AM, Levandoski L, Starnes A, Hershey T, Beck RW, Ruedy KJ, Kollman 
C, Cheng P, Stevens B, Reiss AL, Barnea-Goraly N, Marzelli MJ, Mazaika PM, 
Hershey T, Considine C, Bondurant A, Cuneo M, Bihun E, Grafeman SJ.

Author information:
(1)Center for Interdisciplinary Brain Sciences Research, Department of 
Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Stanford University, Stanford, CA.

Comment in
    Diabetes. 2014 Jan;63(1):62-4.

Studies of brain structure in type 1 diabetes (T1D) describe widespread 
neuroanatomical differences related to exposure to glycemic dysregulation in 
adults and adolescents. In this study, we investigate the neuroanatomical 
correlates of dysglycemia in very young children with early-onset T1D. 
Structural magnetic resonance images of the brain were acquired in 142 children 
with T1D and 68 age-matched control subjects (mean age 7.0 ± 1.7 years) on six 
identical scanners. Whole-brain volumetric analyses were conducted using 
voxel-based morphometry to detect regional differences between groups and to 
investigate correlations between regional brain volumes and measures of glycemic 
exposure (including data from continuous glucose monitoring). Relative to 
control subjects, the T1D group displayed decreased gray matter volume (GMV) in 
bilateral occipital and cerebellar regions (P < 0.001) and increased GMV in the 
left inferior prefrontal, insula, and temporal pole regions (P = 0.002). Within 
the T1D group, hyperglycemic exposure was associated with decreased GMV in 
medial frontal and temporal-occipital regions and increased GMV in lateral 
prefrontal regions. Cognitive correlations of intelligence quotient to GMV were 
found in cerebellar-occipital regions and medial prefrontal cortex for control 
subjects, as expected, but not for the T1D group. Thus, early-onset T1D affects 
regions of the brain that are associated with typical cognitive development.

DOI: 10.2337/db13-0179
PMCID: PMC3868050
PMID: 24170697 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1341. Glob J Health Sci. 2013 Sep 23;5(6):156-65. doi: 10.5539/gjhs.v5n6p156.

Coronary Heart Disease and Emotional Intelligence.

Vlachaki C(1), Maridaki Kassotaki K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Home Economics and Ecology Harokopio University. 
cvlachaki@hua.gr.

BACKGROUND: Coronary Heart Disease (CHD) is associated with emotions, especially 
negative ones, namely anxiety and depression. Emotional Intelligence (EI) is a 
psychological model that consists of a variety of emotional skills.
AIMS: The aim of the present study was to examine the relation between different 
dimensions of Emotional Intelligence and coronary heart disease.
METHODS: A total of 300 participants were studied during a 3-year period in an 
attempt to partially replicate and further expand a previous study conducted in 
Greece among CHD patients, which indicated a strong association between certain 
dimensions of Emotional Intelligence and the incidence of CHD. All participants 
completed a self-report questionnaire, assessing several aspects of Emotional 
Intelligence.
FINDINGS: The results showed that there is a link between the regulation of 
emotions and the occurrence of CHD.
CONCLUSIONS: The evidence reported in the present study makes stronger the claim 
that EI plays a significant role in the occurrence of CHD.

DOI: 10.5539/gjhs.v5n6p156
PMCID: PMC4776881
PMID: 24171883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1342. Psychol Sci. 2014 Jan;25(1):76-84. doi: 10.1177/0956797613497022. Epub 2013 Oct 
30.

Developmental reversals in risky decision making: intelligence agents show 
larger decision biases than college students.

Reyna VF(1), Chick CF, Corbin JC, Hsia AN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Development, Cornell University.

Intelligence agents make risky decisions routinely, with serious consequences 
for national security. Although common sense and most theories imply that 
experienced intelligence professionals should be less prone to irrational 
inconsistencies than college students, we show the opposite. Moreover, the 
growth of experience-based intuition predicts this developmental reversal. We 
presented intelligence agents, college students, and postcollege adults with 30 
risky-choice problems in gain and loss frames and then compared the three 
groups' decisions. The agents not only exhibited larger framing biases than the 
students, but also were more confident in their decisions. The postcollege 
adults (who were selected to be similar to the students) occupied an interesting 
middle ground, being generally as biased as the students (sometimes more biased) 
but less biased than the agents. An experimental manipulation testing an 
explanation for these effects, derived from fuzzy-trace theory, made the 
students look as biased as the agents. These results show that, although framing 
biases are irrational (because equivalent outcomes are treated differently), 
they are the ironical output of cognitively advanced mechanisms of meaning 
making.

DOI: 10.1177/0956797613497022
PMCID: PMC4076289
PMID: 24171931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting Interests The authors 
declared that they had no conflicts of interest with respect to their authorship 
or the publication of this article.


1343. J Res Med Sci. 2013 May;18(5):395-9.

Intelligence quotient in children with congenital hypothyroidism: The effect of 
diagnostic and treatment variables.

Najmi SB(1), Hashemipour M, Maracy MR, Hovsepian S, Ghasemi M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Nour Hospital, Isfahan, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Considering the high prevalence of congenital hypothyroidism (CH) in 
Isfahan, the intelligence quotient (IQ) of children with CH and the effect of 
diagnostic and treatment variables on it were investigated during the CH 
screening program.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 120 children in three studied groups were 
studied in this comparative study the IQ score, in three subsets of verbal IQ, 
performance IQ and full scale IQ, of children diagnosed with transient 
congenital hypothyroidism (TCH) and permanent congenital hypothyroidism (PCH) 
was measured using revised Wechsler pre-school and primary scale of intelligence 
and compared with the control group. The relation between IQ score with time of 
treatment initiation and screening thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) level was 
evaluated in all studied groups.
RESULTS: Mean of verbal IQ, performance IQ, and full scale IQ score was 
significantly higher in the control group than CH patients (both permanent and 
transient) In PCH patients though it was not significant, there was a negative 
relationship between verbal IQ, performance IQ and full scale IQ and screening 
TSH and age of treatment initiation. In TCH patients, there was negative and 
significant relationship between verbal IQ (r = -0.40) and full scale IQ (r = 
-0.38) and age of treatment initiation (r = -0.46).
CONCLUSION: Mean IQ score in both PCH and TCH patients were lower than the 
control group, which correlates negatively with treatment initiation time. 
Though CH screening and early treatment has improved the prognosis of patients, 
but early and high dose of treatment in children with CH is recommended.

PMCID: PMC3810573
PMID: 24174944

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None declared.


1344. J Adv Acad. 2013 Nov;24(4):242-258. doi: 10.1177/1932202X13507971.

Identification as Gifted and Implicit Beliefs About Intelligence: An Examination 
of Potential Moderators.

Snyder KE(1), Barger MM(2), Wormington SV(2), Schwartz-Bloom R(2), 
Linnenbrink-Garcia L(2).

Author information:
(1)University of Louisville, KY, USA.
(2)Duke University, Durham, NC, USA.

The current study investigated whether the developmental timing of a student's 
identification as gifted (i.e., when a student is first identified) was 
associated with later implicit beliefs about intelligence, and whether this 
relation is moderated by academic ability. A sample of 1,743 high-ability 
college students reported on whether and when they had been identified as 
gifted, academic ability (SAT scores), and implicit beliefs of intelligence. 
Timing of identification was unrelated to implicit beliefs; academic ability was 
the only significant predictor. Higher ability students who had been previously 
identified as gifted at any point in time reported implicit beliefs more toward 
entity beliefs than relatively lower ability students who had also been 
identified; however, this effect was quite small. Implicit beliefs did not vary 
by ability level for nonidentified students. These findings suggest that 
identification as gifted at any age modestly (but not necessarily meaningfully) 
relates to implicit beliefs for high-ability students.

DOI: 10.1177/1932202X13507971
PMCID: PMC4339949
PMID: 25729466

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting Interests The authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


1345. Child Adolesc Ment Health. 2013 Nov;18(4):210-217. doi: 
10.1111/j.1475-3588.2012.00675.x. Epub 2012 Jun 25.

Psychiatric disorders in an urban sample of preschool children.

Gudmundsson OO(1), Magnusson P(1), Saemundsen E(2), Lauth B(1), Baldursson G(1), 
Skarphedinsson G(1)(3), Fombonne E(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Landspitali University 
Hospital, Dalbraut 12, 105, Reykjavik, Iceland.
(2)Division of Autism, State Diagnostic and Counselling Centre, Kopavogur, 
Iceland.
(3)The Centre for Child and Adolescent Mental Health, Eastern and Southern 
Norway (RBUP), Norway.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, Canada Research Chair in Child Psychiatry, McGill 
University, Canada.

BACKGROUND: To increase limited epidemiological knowledge of early childhood 
psychopathology, a study of prevalence estimates and demographic correlates of 
psychiatric disorders was conducted in a sample of preschool children.
METHODS: In a two-stage study, parents of 339 children aged 4-6 years who came 
for a medical check-up at three primary care centres in Reykjavik were invited 
to participate. First, the participants were screened with Brigance Screens and 
the Strengths and Difficulties Questionnaire (SDQ) for parents and teachers. 
Subsequently, the children were tested with a short version of Wechsler 
Preschool and Primary Scales of Intelligence - Revised and their parents were 
interviewed with the Schedule for Affective Disorders and Schizophrenia for 
School Aged Children Present and Lifetime Version. Weighted prevalence estimates 
were calculated and logistic regression was used to analyse the association 
between risk factors and psychiatric disorders.
RESULTS: Of those invited to participate, 317 (93.5%) were included in the 
screening and of those, 131 received a full diagnostic assessment. The final 
study sample included 151 girls (47.6%) and 166 boys (52.4%) who represented 
11.6% of the total birth cohort in Reykjavik. Weighted prevalence of DSM-IV 
psychiatric disorders was 10.1% (95% CI 6.7-13.5%) and 57/317 or 18.0% (95% CI 
13.8-22.2%), including elimination disorders. Anxiety disorders (5.7%) and 
attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (3.8%) were the most common disorders 
in this preschool sample. Poor physical health of parents and higher education 
was associated with DSM-IV psychiatric disorders of the children. SDQ Total 
Difficulties score was associated with male gender and poor physical health of 
parents.
CONCLUSIONS: This study indicates that psychiatric disorders in preschool 
children are common and may be correlated with parental health factors.

© 2012 The Authors. Child and Adolescent Mental Health. © 2012 Association for 
Child and Adolescent Mental Health.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1475-3588.2012.00675.x
PMID: 32847303


1346. Percept Mot Skills. 2013 Jun;116(3):724-35. doi: 10.2466/22.PMS.116.3.724-735.

Autobiographical remembering and individual differences in emotional 
intelligence.

Yamamoto K(1), Toyota H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Nara University of Education, Nara City, Japan. 
k0hyamamoto@yahoo.co.jp

The relationship between individual differences in Emotional Intelligence (EI) 
and self-reported arousal from remembering an autobiographical emotional or 
neutral event was examined. Participants (N = 235; 75 men; M age = 18.7 yr., SD 
= 0.9, range = 18-22) were required to complete the Japanese version of the 
Emotional Skills and Competence Questionnaire to assess EI. Participants were 
then asked to recall personal episodes from autobiographical memory, and then 
completed the Memory Characteristics Questionnaire (MCQ). A group with high 
EI-rated, emotionally neutral episodes higher than did a group with low EI on 
several MCQ subscales: sound, participants, overall memory, and doubt/certainty. 
However, differences in ratings between the two groups were not observed for 
emotionally positive episodes. These results suggest that high EI is related to 
more effective use of weak retrieval cues when recalling neutral 
autobiographical memories.

DOI: 10.2466/22.PMS.116.3.724-735
PMID: 24175447 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1347. Percept Mot Skills. 2013 Jun;116(3):830-46. doi: 
10.2466/03.10.PMS.116.3.830-846.

Attachment pattern and cognitive skills: an exploratory study in an Italian 
non-clinical sample.

Delvecchio E(1), Pazzagli C, Di Riso D, Chessa D, Mazzeschi C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Developmental Psychology and Socialization, University of 
Padova, Italy. elisa_delvecchio@libero.it

Bowlby (1973) stated that the attachment relationship between a child and 
parents might help the child learn many skills important for survival, with a 
lifelong effect. However, there is a scarcity of research into attachment and 
intelligence in adulthood. This study examines the relationship between 
attachment status and cognitive skills in an Italian non-clinical sample of 101 
young adults (M age = 22.6 yr.; SD = 1.8). The Adult Attachment Projective 
Picture Stimuli and the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Revised were 
administered to participants and four-way attachment classifications were 
analyzed regarding participants' IQ. Statistically significant differences were 
found for Full Scale IQ and Verbal IQ, with Dismissing participants scoring 
higher than Unresolved participants. Similar results were obtained for two-way 
attachment patterns with Resolved participants scoring higher than Unresolved. 
Implications regarding different attachment patterns and the concept of trauma 
are discussed.

DOI: 10.2466/03.10.PMS.116.3.830-846
PMID: 24175457 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1348. Br J Educ Psychol. 2013 Dec;83(Pt 4):550-68. doi: 
10.1111/j.2044-8279.2012.02082.x. Epub 2012 Sep 27.

Phonological awareness and oral language proficiency in learning to read English 
among Chinese kindergarten children in Hong Kong.

Yeung SS(1), Chan CK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychological Studies, The Hong Kong Institution of Education, 
Hong Kong; Faculty of Education, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong.

BACKGROUND: Learning to read is very challenging for Hong Kong children who 
learn English as a second language (ESL), as they must acquire two very 
different writing systems, beginning at the age of three. Few studies have 
examined the role of phonological awareness at the subsyllabic levels, oral 
language proficiency, and L1 tone awareness in L2 English reading among Hong 
Kong ESL kindergarteners.
AIMS: This study aims to investigate L1 and L2 phonological awareness and oral 
language proficiency as predictors of English reading among children with 
Chinese as L1.
SAMPLE: One hundred and sixty-one typically developing children with a mean age 
of 5.16 (SD=.35) selected from seven preschools in Hong Kong.
METHOD: Participants were assessed for English reading, English and Chinese 
phonological awareness at different levels, English oral language skills, and 
letter naming ability.
RESULTS: Hierarchical regression analyses indicated that both oral language 
proficiency and phonological awareness measures significantly predicted L2 word 
reading, when statistically controlled for age and general intelligence. Among 
various phonological awareness units, L2 phonemic awareness was the best 
predictor of L2 word reading. Cross-language transfer was shown with L1 
phonological awareness at the tone level, uniquely predicting L2 word reading.
CONCLUSIONS: The present findings show the important role of phonological 
awareness at the subsyllabic levels (rime and phoneme) and oral language 
proficiency in the course of L2 reading development in Chinese ESL learners. The 
significant contribution of L1 tone awareness to L2 reading suggests that 
phonological sensitivity is a general competence that ESL children need to 
acquire in early years. The findings have significant implications for 
understanding L2 reading development and curriculum development.

© 2012 The British Psychological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/j.2044-8279.2012.02082.x
PMID: 24175682 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1349. Brain. 2013 Dec;136(Pt 12):3634-44. doi: 10.1093/brain/awt283. Epub 2013 Oct 30.

SIL1 mutations and clinical spectrum in patients with Marinesco-Sjogren 
syndrome.

Krieger M(1), Roos A, Stendel C, Claeys KG, Sonmez FM, Baudis M, Bauer P, 
Bornemann A, de Goede C, Dufke A, Finkel RS, Goebel HH, Häussler M, Kingston H, 
Kirschner J, Medne L, Muschke P, Rivier F, Rudnik-Schöneborn S, Spengler S, 
Inzana F, Stanzial F, Benedicenti F, Synofzik M, Lia Taratuto A, Pirra L, Tay 
SK, Topaloglu H, Uyanik G, Wand D, Williams D, Zerres K, Weis J, Senderek J.

Author information:
(1)1 Institute of Human Genetics, Rheinisch-Westfälische Technische Hochschule 
(RWTH) Aachen University, 52074 Aachen, Germany.

Marinesco-Sjögren syndrome is a rare autosomal recessive multisystem disorder 
featuring cerebellar ataxia, early-onset cataracts, chronic myopathy, variable 
intellectual disability and delayed motor development. More recently, mutations 
in the SIL1 gene, which encodes an endoplasmic reticulum resident co-chaperone, 
were identified as the main cause of Marinesco-Sjögren syndrome. Here we 
describe the results of SIL1 mutation analysis in 62 patients presenting with 
early-onset ataxia, cataracts and myopathy or combinations of at least two of 
these. We obtained a mutation detection rate of 60% (15/25) among patients with 
the characteristic Marinesco-Sjögren syndrome triad (ataxia, cataracts, 
myopathy) whereas the detection rate in the group of patients with more variable 
phenotypic presentation was below 3% (1/37). We report 16 unrelated families 
with a total of 19 different SIL1 mutations. Among these mutations are 15 
previously unreported changes, including single- and multi-exon deletions. Based 
on data from our screening cohort and data compiled from the literature we found 
that SIL1 mutations are invariably associated with the combination of a 
cerebellar syndrome and chronic myopathy. Cataracts were observed in all 
patients beyond the age of 7 years, but might be missing in infants. Six 
patients with SIL1 mutations had no intellectual disability, extending the known 
wide range of cognitive capabilities in Marinesco-Sjögren syndrome to include 
normal intelligence. Modestly constant features were somatic growth retardation, 
skeletal abnormalities and pyramidal tract signs. Examination of mutant SIL1 
expression in cultured patient lymphoblasts suggested that SIL1 mutations result 
in severely reduced SIL1 protein levels irrespective of the type and position of 
mutations. Our data broaden the SIL1 mutation spectrum and confirm that SIL1 is 
the major Marinesco-Sjögren syndrome gene. SIL1 patients usually present with 
the characteristic triad but cataracts might be missing in young children. As 
cognitive impairment is not obligatory, patients without intellectual disability 
but a Marinesco-Sjögren syndrome-compatible phenotype should receive SIL1 
mutation analysis. Despite allelic heterogeneity and many families with private 
mutations, the phenotype related to SIL1 mutations is relatively homogenous. 
Based on SIL1 expression studies we speculate that this may arise from a uniform 
effect of different mutations on protein expression.

DOI: 10.1093/brain/awt283
PMID: 24176978 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1350. J Biomed Inform. 2014 Feb;47:153-9. doi: 10.1016/j.jbi.2013.10.005. Epub 2013 
Oct 29.

An SVM-based high-quality article classifier for systematic reviews.

Kim S(1), Choi J(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, College of Medicine, Seoul National 
University, 103 Daehak-ro, Jongno-gu, Seoul 110-799, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Biomedical Engineering, College of Medicine, Seoul National 
University, 103 Daehak-ro, Jongno-gu, Seoul 110-799, Republic of Korea. 
Electronic address: jinchoi@snu.ac.kr.

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether SVM-based classifiers, which are trained on a 
combination of inclusion and common exclusion articles, are useful to experts 
reviewing journal articles for inclusion during new systematic reviews.
METHODS: Test collections were built using the annotated reference files from 19 
procedure and 4 drug systematic reviews. The classifiers were trained by 
balanced data sets, which were sampled using random sampling. This approach 
compared two balanced data sets, one with a combination of included and commonly 
excluded articles and one with a combination of included and excluded articles. 
AUCs were used as evaluation metrics.
RESULTS: The AUCs of the classifiers, which were trained on the balanced data 
set with included and commonly excluded articles, were significantly higher than 
those of the classifiers, which were trained on the balanced data set with 
included and excluded articles.
CONCLUSION: Automatic, high-quality article classifiers using machine learning 
could reduce the workload of experts performing systematic reviews when 
topic-specific data are scarce. In particular, when used as training data, a 
combination of included and commonly excluded articles is more helpful than a 
combination of included and excluded articles.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbi.2013.10.005
PMID: 24177318 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1351. Sleep. 2013 Nov 1;36(11):1597-608. doi: 10.5665/sleep.3106.

Self-reported sleep correlates with prefrontal-amygdala functional connectivity 
and emotional functioning.

Killgore WD(1).

Author information:
(1)McLean Hospital, Belmont, MA ; Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA.

STUDY OBJECTIVES: Prior research suggests that sleep deprivation is associated 
with declines in some aspects of emotional intelligence and increased severity 
on indices of psychological disturbance. Sleep deprivation is also associated 
with reduced prefrontal-amygdala functional connectivity, potentially reflecting 
impaired top-down modulation of emotion. It remains unknown whether this 
modified connectivity may be observed in relation to more typical levels of 
sleep curtailment. We examined whether self-reported sleep duration the night 
before an assessment would be associated with these effects.
DESIGN: Participants documented their hours of sleep from the previous night, 
completed the Bar-On Emotional Quotient Inventory (EQ-i), Mayer-Salovey-Caruso 
Emotional Intelligence Test (MSCEIT), and Personality Assessment Inventory 
(PAI), and underwent resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI).
SETTING: Outpatient neuroimaging center at a private psychiatric hospital.
PARTICIPANTS: Sixty-five healthy adults (33 men, 32 women), ranging in age from 
18-45 y.
INTERVENTIONS: N/A.
MEASUREMENTS AND RESULTS: Greater self-reported sleep the preceding night was 
associated with higher scores on all scales of the EQ-i but not the MSCEIT, and 
with lower symptom severity scores on half of the psychopathology scales of the 
PAI. Longer sleep was also associated with stronger negative functional 
connectivity between the right ventromedial prefrontal cortex and amygdala. 
Moreover, greater negative connectivity between these regions was associated 
with higher EQ-i and lower symptom severity on the PAI.
CONCLUSIONS: Self-reported sleep duration from the preceding night was 
negatively correlated with prefrontal-amygdala connectivity and the severity of 
subjective psychological distress, while positively correlated with higher 
perceived emotional intelligence. More sleep was associated with higher 
emotional and psychological strength.

DOI: 10.5665/sleep.3106
PMCID: PMC3792375
PMID: 24179291 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1352. Neuroimage Clin. 2013 Mar 22;2:414-23. doi: 10.1016/j.nicl.2013.03.007. 
eCollection 2013.

Disturbed resting state EEG synchronization in bipolar disorder: A 
graph-theoretic analysis.

Kim DJ(1), Bolbecker AR, Howell J, Rass O, Sporns O, Hetrick WP, Breier A, 
O'Donnell BF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences, Indiana University, 1101 East 
10th Street, Bloomington, IN 47405, USA.

Disruption of functional connectivity may be a key feature of bipolar disorder 
(BD) which reflects disturbances of synchronization and oscillations within 
brain networks. We investigated whether the resting electroencephalogram (EEG) 
in patients with BD showed altered synchronization or network properties. 
Resting-state EEG was recorded in 57 BD type-I patients and 87 healthy control 
subjects. Functional connectivity between pairs of EEG channels was measured 
using synchronization likelihood (SL) for 5 frequency bands (δ, θ, α, β, and γ). 
Graph-theoretic analysis was applied to SL over the electrode array to assess 
network properties. BD patients showed a decrease of mean synchronization in the 
alpha band, and the decreases were greatest in fronto-central and 
centro-parietal connections. In addition, the clustering coefficient and global 
efficiency were decreased in BD patients, whereas the characteristic path length 
increased. We also found that the normalized characteristic path length and 
small-worldness were significantly correlated with depression scores in BD 
patients. These results suggest that BD patients show impaired neural 
synchronization at rest and a disruption of resting-state functional 
connectivity.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nicl.2013.03.007
PMCID: PMC3777715
PMID: 24179795


1353. Neuroimage Clin. 2013 Aug 2;3:106-14. doi: 10.1016/j.nicl.2013.07.007. 
eCollection 2013.

White matter microstructure correlates with autism trait severity in a combined 
clinical-control sample of high-functioning adults.

Gibbard CR(1), Ren J, Seunarine KK, Clayden JD, Skuse DH, Clark CA.

Author information:
(1)Imaging and Biophysics Unit, UCL Institute of Child Health, 30 Guilford 
Street, London WC1N 1EH, UK.

Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) studies have demonstrated white matter (WM) 
abnormalities in tracts involved in emotion processing in autism spectrum 
disorder (ASD), but little is known regarding the nature and distribution of WM 
anomalies in relation to ASD trait severity in adults. Increasing evidence 
suggests that ASD occurs at the extreme of a distribution of social abilities. 
We aimed to examine WM microstructure as a potential marker for ASD symptom 
severity in a combined clinical-neurotypical population. SIENAX was used to 
estimate whole brain volume. Tract-based spatial statistics (TBSS) was used to 
provide a voxel-wise comparison of WM microstructure in 50 high-functioning 
young adults: 25 ASD and 25 neurotypical. The severity of ASD traits was 
measured by autism quotient (AQ); we examined regressions between DTI markers of 
WM microstructure and ASD trait severity. Cognitive abilities, measured by 
intelligence quotient, were well-matched between the groups and were controlled 
in all analyses. There were no significant group differences in whole brain 
volume. TBSS showed widespread regions of significantly reduced fractional 
anisotropy (FA) and increased mean diffusivity (MD) and radial diffusivity (RD) 
in ASD compared with controls. Linear regression analyses in the combined sample 
showed that average whole WM skeleton FA was negatively influenced by AQ 
(p = 0.004), whilst MD and RD were positively related to AQ (p = 0.002; 
p = 0.001). Regression slopes were similar within both groups and strongest for 
AQ social, communication and attention switching scores. In conclusion, similar 
regression characteristics were found between WM microstructure and ASD trait 
severity in a combined sample of ASD and neurotypical adults. WM anomalies were 
relatively more severe in the clinically diagnosed sample. Both findings suggest 
that there is a dimensional relationship between WM microstructure and severity 
of ASD traits from neurotypical subjects through to clinical ASD, with reduced 
coherence of WM associated with greater ASD symptoms. General cognitive 
abilities were independent of the relationship between WM indices and ASD 
traits.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nicl.2013.07.007
PMCID: PMC3791280
PMID: 24179854


1354. J Acoust Soc Am. 2013 Nov;134(5):3496-505. doi: 10.1121/1.4821203.

Classification of mysticete sounds using machine learning techniques.

Halkias XC(1), Paris S, Glotin H.

Author information:
(1)DYNI team, Laboratoire LSIS, UMR CNRS 7296, Université Sud Toulon-Var, Avenue 
de l'Université, BP20132, 83957 La Garde Cedex, France.

Automatic classification of mysticete sounds has long been a challenging task in 
the bioacoustics field. The unknown statistical properties of the signals as 
well as the use of different recording apparatus and low signal-to-noise ratio 
conditions often lead to non-optimal systems. The goal of this paper is to 
design methods for the automatic classification of mysticete sounds using a 
restricted Boltzmann machine and a sparse auto-encoder that are widely used in 
the field of artificial intelligence. Experiments on five species of mysticetes 
are presented. The different methods are employed on the subset of species whose 
frequency range overlaps, as well as in all five species' calls. Moreover, 
results are offered with and without the use of a noise class. Overall, the 
systems are able to achieve an average classification accuracy of over 69% (with 
noise) and 80% (without noise) given the different architectures.

DOI: 10.1121/1.4821203
PMID: 24180760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1355. Epilepsy Behav. 2013 Dec;29(3):548-51. doi: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2013.09.034. Epub 
2013 Oct 30.

Role of plasma homocysteine levels and MTHFR polymorphisms on IQ scores in 
children and young adults with epilepsy treated with antiepileptic drugs.

Di Rosa G(1), Lenzo P, Parisi E, Neri M, Guerrera S, Nicotera A, Alibrandi A, 
Germanò E, Caccamo D, Spanò M, Tortorella G.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Scienze Pediatriche, Ginecologiche, Microbiologiche e 
Biomediche-UOC di Neuropsichiatria Infantile, University of Messina, Messina, 
Italy. Electronic address: gdirosa@unime.it.

Homocysteine (Hcy) is a sulfur-containing amino acid involved in methionine 
metabolism. High plasma total Hcy (tHcy) has been quite frequently reported in 
patients with epilepsy treated with antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) mainly related to 
plasma folate reduction induced by AEDs themselves. The role of C677T and A1298C 
polymorphisms of methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase gene (MTHFR) on the 
increase of plasma tHcy in patients with epilepsy taking AEDs is still 
controversial. Cognitive impairment may be associated with epilepsy either as 
the result of the epileptic syndrome per se or as a side effect induced by the 
AEDs. High plasma tHcy levels were associated with lower cognitive performances 
in patients affected by Alzheimer's disease and mild cognitive impairment and in 
healthy elderly. We searched for a correlation between plasma tHcy levels with 
the intelligence quotient (IQ) scores in a population of children and young 
adults with epilepsy treated with old and/or newer AEDs. The study group 
encompassed 179 patients (92 M, 51.5%) followed at our Unit of Child 
Neuropsychiatry and aged between 4 and 25years (mean+SD: 14.03±4.25). The 
inclusion criteria included the following: 1) diagnosis of epilepsy of "unknown 
cause" (cryptogenic) according to the ILAE classification, 2) age older than 
3years, 3) stabilized antiepileptic treatment for at least 6months, and 4) 
clinical records of cognitive tests, plasma tHcy value, and results of MTHFR 
polymorphisms. Patients' mean tHcy value was 9.71±3.13μM/L (tHcy<9μM/L as our 
laboratory cutoff in nonepileptic controls). The mean TIQ score was 85.22 
(SD±24.12); the mean VIQ score was 86.32 (SD±20.86); and the mean PIQ score was 
86.94 (SD±21.51). C677T and A1298C MTHFR polymorphisms were detected in 74/92 
(80%) examined patients and distributed into the following: CT (22.3%), TT 
(14.9%), CC (10.3%) for C677T, AC (16%), CC (1.1%), and AA (30.3%) for A1298C. 
Plasma tHcy levels were not significantly related to the IQ scores (TIQ, VIQ, or 
PIQ). Two significant findings came out. First, patients on AED polytherapy 
showed significantly lower TIQ, VIQ, and PIQ scores compared with the ones with 
AED monotherapy (p=0.032; p=0.008; p=0.005, respectively). However, this 
significant difference was not observed with the plasma tHcy levels compared 
with AED treatment. Second, patients with the 677TT genotype showed 
significantly higher tHcy levels versus those with the wt ones (p=0.049). In the 
latter group of patients, although the mean TIQ score was lower compared with 
the mean TIQ score in those with the wt ones, the difference only approached 
statistical significance (p=0.056). To our knowledge, this is the first study 
investigating the relationship between tHcy levels and cognitive scores in 
children with epilepsy treated with AEDs. Analysis of wider samples, selective 
neuropsychological tests, and prospective recruitment of patients might be 
encouraged.

© 2013.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2013.09.034
PMID: 24183735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1356. J Pediatr (Rio J). 2014 Mar-Apr;90(2):155-60. doi: 10.1016/j.jped.2013.06.010. 
Epub 2013 Oct 30.

Cognitive and behavioral heterogeneity in genetic syndromes.

Pegoraro LF(1), Steiner CE(2), Celeri EH(3), Banzato CE(3), Dalgalarrondo P(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Psychology and Psychiatry, Faculty of Medical Sciences, 
Universidade de Campinas, Campinas, SP, Brazil; Pediatric Research Center, 
Department of Pediatrics, Faculty of Medical Sciences, Universidade de Campinas, 
Campinas, SP, Brazil. Electronic address: luizflp@fcm.unicamp.br.
(2)Department of Medical Genetics, Faculty of Medical Sciences, Universidade de 
Campinas, Campinas, SP, Brazil.
(3)Department of Medical Psychology and Psychiatry, Faculty of Medical Sciences, 
Universidade de Campinas, Campinas, SP, Brazil.
(4)Department of Medical Psychology and Psychiatry, Faculty of Medical Sciences, 
Universidade de Campinas, Campinas, SP, Brazil; Pediatric Research Center, 
Department of Pediatrics, Faculty of Medical Sciences, Universidade de Campinas, 
Campinas, SP, Brazil.

OBJECTIVE: this study aimed to investigate the cognitive and behavioral 
profiles, as well as the psychiatric symptoms and disorders in children with 
three different genetic syndromes with similar sociocultural and socioeconomic 
backgrounds.
METHODS: thirty-four children aged 6 to 16 years, with Williams-Beuren syndrome 
(n=10), Prader-Willi syndrome (n=11), and Fragile X syndrome (n=13) from the 
outpatient clinics of Child Psychiatry and Medical Genetics Department were 
cognitively assessed through the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children 
(WISC-III). Afterwards, a full-scale intelligence quotient (IQ), verbal IQ, 
performance IQ, standard subtest scores, as well as frequency of psychiatric 
symptoms and disorders were compared among the three syndromes.
RESULTS: significant differences were found among the syndromes concerning 
verbal IQ and verbal and performance subtests. Post-hoc analysis demonstrated 
that vocabulary and comprehension subtest scores were significantly higher in 
Williams-Beuren syndrome in comparison with Prader-Willi and Fragile X 
syndromes, and block design and object assembly scores were significantly higher 
in Prader-Willi syndrome compared with Williams-Beuren and Fragile X syndromes. 
Additionally, there were significant differences between the syndromes 
concerning behavioral features and psychiatric symptoms. The Prader-Willi 
syndrome group presented a higher frequency of hyperphagia and self-injurious 
behaviors. The Fragile X syndrome group showed a higher frequency of social 
interaction deficits; such difference nearly reached statistical significance.
CONCLUSION: the three genetic syndromes exhibited distinctive cognitive, 
behavioral, and psychiatric patterns.

Copyright © 2013 Sociedade Brasileira de Pediatria. Published by Elsevier 
Editora Ltda. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jped.2013.06.010
PMID: 24184301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1357. Psychiatriki. 2013 Jul-Sep;24(3):217-24.

Psychotic symptoms in normal pressure hydrocephalus.

Chatziioannidis S(1), Charatsidou I, Nikolaidis N, Garyfallos G, Giouzepas I.

Author information:
(1)2nd University Psychiatric Department, Psychiatric Hospital of Thessaloniki, 
School of Medicine, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Thessaloniki, Greece.

Normal Pressure Hydrocephalus due to idiopathic aqueductal stenosis is a chronic 
abnormal accumulation of cerebrospinal fluid in the cerebral ventricles caused 
by an obstruction in the Sylvian aqueduct. This leads to a dilatation of the 
ventricular system and to subsequent damage of the adjacent parenchyma. Although 
NPH typically presents with the progressive 'triad' of cognitive impairment, 
gait disturbance and urinary incontinence, it has been described that it rarely 
manifests in the form of predominant psychotic symptoms. It has been suggested 
that thought and perceptual disorders could develop secondary to the damage 
caused by NPH. Although precise anatomical correlates have not yet been 
established, certain cerebral regions -primarily the frontal cortex, 
mesencephalic and diencephalic structures of the brain- have been implicated in 
the pathogenesis of hydrocephalic psychosis. Because frontal lobe lesions are 
traditionally known to facilitate one's inability to integrate and correct 
perceptual distortions in the face of contradictory evidence, frontal lobe 
dysfunction may be integral in delineating the etiology of delusions in NPH. We 
present the case of a 30-year-old female, admitted involuntarily to our acute 
psychiatric department because she exhibited aggressive behavior while being in 
an agitated state with delusions of persecution. Her neurological examination 
disclosed subtle bradykinesia. Neuropsychological batteries and intelligence 
testing revealed mild cognitive impairment and a CT scan showed considerable 
dilatation of the ventricular system due to idiopathic aqueductal stenosis. 
While a conservative approach was chosen for the treatment of NPH, our patient 
was initiated on 2nd generation antipsychotics showing marked improvement of her 
psychiatric symptomatology. The atypical presentation of hydrocephalus in the 
aforementioned case underlines the necessity to thoroughly investigate the 
possible presence of an underlying organic factor in those patients who present 
with predominant psychotic symptoms in association with soft non-localising 
neurological signs and mild cognitive deficits. Furthermore, our patient's 
marked improvement indicates that, in cases where the primary cause is treated 
conservatively, hydrocephalic psychosis could respond to 2nd generation 
antipsychotics. In light of this case report, we reviewed past and present 
literature on the matter.

PMID: 24185090 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1358. J Cogn Psychol (Hove). 2013 Jan 1;25(6):10.1080/20445911.2013.791299. doi: 
10.1080/20445911.2013.791299.

Predicting performance on the Raven's Matrices: The roles of associative 
learning and retrieval efficiency.

Lilienthal L(1), Tamez E, Myerson J, Hale S.

Author information:
(1)Washington University in St. Louis.

Previous studies have shown that performance on Williams and Pearlberg's (2006) 
complex associative learning task is a good predictor of fluid intelligence. 
This task is similar in structure to that used in studying the fan effect 
(Anderson, 1974), as both tasks involve forming multiple associations and 
require retrieval in the face of interference. The purpose of the present study 
was to investigate the relations among complex associative learning, working 
memory, and fluid intelligence. Specifically, we asked whether retrieval 
efficiency, as measured by the fan effect, could account for the relation 
between complex associative learning and performance on Raven's Advanced 
Progressive Matrices. Consistent with previous findings, complex associative 
learning predicted Raven's performance, but the fan effect did not account for 
this relation. Notably, the learning phase of the fan effect task was 
significantly correlated with both complex associative learning and Raven's 
performance, providing further support for the importance of learning as a 
predictor of fluid intelligence.

DOI: 10.1080/20445911.2013.791299
PMCID: PMC3811950
PMID: 24187609


1359. Biosecur Bioterror. 2013 Sep;11 Suppl 1:S25-35. doi: 10.1089/bsp.2012.0068.

Agroterrorism targeting livestock: a review with a focus on early detection 
systems.

Elbers A, Knutsson R.

Agroterrorism targeting livestock can be described as the intentional 
introduction of an animal disease agent against livestock with the purpose of 
causing economic damage, disrupting socioeconomic stability of a country, and 
creating panic and distress. This type of terrorism can be alluring to 
terrorists because animal disease agents are easily available. This review 
addresses the vulnerabilities of the livestock industry to agroterrorism. 
However, we also show that early detection systems have recently been developed 
for agroterrorism and deliberate spread of animal pathogens in livestock, 
including an agroterrorism intelligence cycle, syndromic surveillance programs, 
and computer-based clinical decision support systems that can be used for early 
detection of notifiable animal diseases. The development of DIVA-vaccines in the 
past 10 to 15 years has created, in principle, an excellent response instrument 
to counter intentional animal disease outbreaks. These developments have made 
our animal agriculture less vulnerable to agroterrorism. But we cannot relax; 
there are still many challenges, in particular with respect to integration of 
first line of defense, law enforcement, and early detection systems for animal 
diseases.

DOI: 10.1089/bsp.2012.0068
PMID: 23971814 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1360. Biosecur Bioterror. 2013 Sep;11 Suppl 1:S264-75. doi: 10.1089/bsp.2013.0014.

Social media and its dual use in biopreparedness: communication and 
visualization tools in an animal bioterrorism incident.

Sjöberg E(1), Barker GC, Landgren J, Griberg I, Skiby JE, Tubbin A, von 
Stapelmohr A, Härenstam M, Jansson M, Knutsson R.

Author information:
(1)Elisabeth Sjöberg is Communications Officer, Department of Security, National 
Veterinary Institute, Uppsala, Sweden. Gary C. Barker, PhD, is Principal 
Scientist, Institute of Food Research, Gut Health and Food Safety, Norwich 
Research Park, Colney, Norwich, United Kingdom. Jonas Landgren, PhD, is 
Assistant Professor, Head of Division Interaction Design, Chalmers University of 
Technology and Gothenburg University, Sweden. Isaac Griberg is Social Media 
Officer, International Committee of the Red Cross Institute, Geneva, 
Switzerland. Jeffrey E. Skiby is Senior Communications Officer, Division of Food 
Microbiology, Technical University of Denmark, Søborg, Denmark. Anna Tubbin is 
Communications Officer, Swedish Board of Agriculture, Jönköping Sweden. Anne von 
Stapelmohr is Coordinator of Crisis Communication, Swedish Contingency Agency, 
Stockholm, Sweden. Malin Härenstam is Head of Communication, National Veterinary 
Institute, Uppsala, Sweden. Mikael Jansson is Communications Officer, Swedish 
University of Agricultural Sciences, Uppsala, Sweden. Rickard Knutsson, PhD, is 
Director of Security Department, National Veterinary Institute , Uppsala, Sweden 
.

This article focuses on social media and interactive challenges for emergency 
organizations during a bioterrorism or agroterrorism incident, and it outlines 
the dual-use dilemma of social media. Attackers or terrorists can use social 
media as their modus operandi, and defenders, including emergency organizations 
in law enforcement and public and animal health, can use it for peaceful 
purposes. To get a better understanding of the uses of social media in these 
situations, a workshop was arranged in Stockholm, Sweden, to raise awareness 
about social media and animal bioterrorism threats. Fifty-six experts and crisis 
communicators from international and national organizations participated. As a 
result of the workshop, it was concluded that emergency organizations can 
collect valuable information and monitor social media before, during, and after 
an outbreak. In order to make use of interactive communication to obtain 
collective intelligence from the public, emergency organizations must adapt to 
social networking technologies, requiring multidisciplinary knowledge in the 
fields of information, communication, IT, and biopreparedness. Social network 
messaging during a disease outbreak can be visualized in stream graphs and 
networks showing clusters of Twitter and Facebook users. The visualization of 
social media can be an important preparedness tool in the response to 
bioterrorism and agroterrorism.

DOI: 10.1089/bsp.2013.0014
PMID: 23971817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1361. Biosecur Bioterror. 2013 Sep;11 Suppl 1:S46-54. doi: 10.1089/bsp.2013.0039.

Actionable knowledge and strategic decision making for bio- and agroterrorism 
threats: building a collaborative early warning culture.

Mårtensson PÅ, Hedström L, Sundelius B, Skiby JE, Elbers A, Knutsson R.

Current trends in biosecurity and cybersecurity include (1) the wide 
availability of technology and specialized knowledge that previously were 
available only to governments; (2) the global economic recession, which may 
increase the spread of radical non-state actors; and (3) recent US and EU 
commission reports that reflect concerns about non-state actors in asymmetric 
threats. The intersectoral and international nature of bioterrorism and 
agroterrorism threats requires collaboration across several sectors including 
intelligence, police, forensics, customs, and other law enforcement 
organizations who must work together with public and animal health organizations 
as well as environmental and social science organizations. This requires 
coordinated decision making among these organizations, based on actionable 
knowledge and information sharing. The risk of not sharing information among 
organizations compared to the benefit of sharing information can be considered 
in an "information sharing risk-benefit analysis" to prevent a terrorism 
incident from occurring and to build a rapid response capability. In the EU 
project AniBioThreat, early warning is the main topic in work package 3 (WP 3). 
A strategy has been generated based on an iterative approach to bring law 
enforcement agencies and human and animal health institutes together. Workshops 
and exercises have taken place during the first half of the project, and 
spin-off activities include new preparedness plans for institutes and the 
formation of a legal adviser network for decision making. In addition, a seminar 
on actionable knowledge was held in Stockholm, Sweden, in 2012, which identified 
the need to bring various agency cultures together to work on developing a 
resilient capability to identify early signs of bio- and agroterrorism threats. 
The seminar concluded that there are a number of challenges in building a 
collaborative culture, including developing an education program that supports 
collaboration and shared situational awareness.

DOI: 10.1089/bsp.2013.0039
PMID: 23971822 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1362. Dev Psychol. 2014 Apr;50(4):1037-48. doi: 10.1037/a0034910. Epub 2013 Nov 4.

Rational thinking and cognitive sophistication: development, cognitive 
abilities, and thinking dispositions.

Toplak ME(1), West RF(2), Stanovich KE(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, York University.
(2)Department of Graduate Psychology, James Madison University.
(3)Department of Applied Psychology and Human Development, University of 
Toronto.

We studied developmental trends in 5 important reasoning tasks that are critical 
components of the operational definition of rational thinking. The tasks 
measured denominator neglect, belief bias, base rate sensitivity, resistance to 
framing, and the tendency toward otherside thinking. In addition to age, we 
examined 2 other individual difference domains that index cognitive 
sophistication: cognitive ability (intelligence and executive functioning) and 
thinking dispositions (actively open-minded thinking, superstitious thinking, 
and need for cognition). All 5 reasoning domains were consistently related to 
cognitive sophistication regardless of how it was indexed (age, cognitive 
ability, thinking dispositions). The implications of these findings for 
taxonomies of developmental trends in rational thinking tasks are discussed.

PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/a0034910
PMID: 24188038 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1363. Emotion. 2014 Feb;14(1):43-50. doi: 10.1037/a0034314. Epub 2013 Nov 4.

The effect of intranasal oxytocin on perceiving and understanding emotion on the 
Mayer-Salovey-Caruso Emotional Intelligence Test (MSCEIT).

Cardoso C(1), Ellenbogen MA(1), Linnen AM(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Research in Human Development, Department of Psychology, Concordia 
University.

Evidence suggests that intranasal oxytocin enhances the perception of emotion in 
facial expressions during standard emotion identification tasks. However, it is 
not clear whether this effect is desirable in people who do not show deficits in 
emotion perception. That is, a heightened perception of emotion in faces could 
lead to "oversensitivity" to the emotions of others in nonclinical participants. 
The goal of this study was to assess the effects of intranasal oxytocin on 
emotion perception using ecologically valid social and nonsocial visual tasks. 
Eighty-two participants (42 women) self-administered a 24 IU dose of intranasal 
oxytocin or a placebo in a double-blind, randomized experiment and then 
completed the perceiving and understanding emotion components of the 
Mayer-Salovey-Caruso Emotional Intelligence Test. In this test, emotion 
identification accuracy is based on agreement with a normative sample. As 
expected, participants administered intranasal oxytocin rated emotion in facial 
stimuli as expressing greater emotional intensity than those given a placebo. 
Consequently, accurate identification of emotion in faces, based on agreement 
with a normative sample, was impaired in the oxytocin group relative to placebo. 
No such effect was observed for tests using nonsocial stimuli. The results are 
consistent with the hypothesis that intranasal oxytocin enhances the salience of 
social stimuli in the environment, but not nonsocial stimuli. The present 
findings support a growing literature showing that the effects of intranasal 
oxytocin on social cognition can be negative under certain circumstances, in 
this case promoting "oversensitivity" to emotion in faces in healthy people.

PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/a0034314
PMID: 24188065 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1364. Neuropsychology. 2014 Mar;28(2):212-221. doi: 10.1037/neu0000034. Epub 2013 Nov 
4.

Duration of epilepsy and cognitive development in children: a longitudinal 
study.

van Iterson L(1), Zijlstra BJH(2), Augustijn PB(3), van der Leij A(2), de Jong 
PF(2).

Author information:
(1)SEIN Epilepsy Institute in the Netherlands Foundation, Department of 
Psychology.
(2)Research Institute of Child Development and Education, University of 
Amsterdam.
(3)SEIN Epilepsy Institute in the Netherlands Foundation, Department of 
Neurology.

OBJECTIVE: To study the pattern of cognitive development in relation to duration 
of epilepsy.
METHODS: Participants were 113 children with epilepsy referred because of 
concerns about their cognitive development and tested at least twice at tertiary 
epilepsy settings. Verbal, Performance, and Full Scale IQ were measured with 
Wechsler Intelligence Scales. Various epilepsy and demographic variables were 
included. Change over time was modeled with multilevel analysis for longitudinal 
data with variable measurement occasion.
RESULTS: The Verbal and Full Scales could be fitted best as a downward 
progressing function. Earlier in time, decline was likely to be largest; later 
in time, decline followed a continuous, dwindling course. A similar trend was 
seen for the Performance Scale. Initially, Verbal IQ was higher than Performance 
IQ but this discrepancy decreased over time. Later onset of epilepsy was 
associated with an attenuated decline of the Verbal Scale. None of the other 
epilepsy variables were related to the course of cognitive development. Higher 
parental education was associated with higher IQ, but was not protective against 
decline.
CONCLUSIONS: Verbal IQ, though initially spared, drops. The Performance IQ, 
which may have shown its vulnerability earlier in the course of the epilepsy, 
shows overall smaller changes. It is suggested that seizures impact 
synergistically on an affected brain, which leads to progressive cognitive 
decline. Earlier onset of epilepsy is associated with relatively higher VIQ, 
larger VIQ > PIQ discrepancies and more decline.

PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/neu0000034
PMID: 24188112 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1365. Neuropsychology. 2014 May;28(3):415-22. doi: 10.1037/neu0000024. Epub 2013 Nov 
4.

Reading in subjects with an oral cleft: speech, hearing and neuropsychological 
skills.

Conrad AL(1), McCoy TE(2), DeVolder I(2), Richman LC(1), Nopoulos P(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Iowa Children's Hospital.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, University of Iowa Carver College of Medicine.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate speech, hearing, and neuropsychological correlates to 
reading among children, adolescents, and young adults with nonsyndromic cleft of 
the lip and/or palate (NSCL/P).
METHOD: All testing was completed in a single visit at a Midwestern university 
hospital. Subjects in both the NSCL/P (n = 80) and the control groups (n = 62) 
ranged in age from 7-26 years (average age = 17.60 and 17.66, respectively). 
Subjects completed a battery of standardized tests evaluating intelligence, 
neuropsychological skills, and word reading. Subjects with NSCL/P also underwent 
speech assessment, and past audiology records were evaluated.
RESULTS: After controlling for age and socioeconomic status, subjects with cleft 
performed significantly worse on a test of word reading. For subjects with 
cleft, word reading deficits were not associated with measures of speech or 
hearing, but were correlated with impairments in auditory memory.
CONCLUSION: These findings show poorer reading among subjects with NSCL/P 
compared with those without. Further work needs to focus on correlates of 
reading among subjects with cleft to allow early identification and appropriate 
intervention/accommodation for those at risk.

DOI: 10.1037/neu0000024
PMCID: PMC4076825
PMID: 24188114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1366. Psychol Assess. 2014 Mar;26(1):207-14. doi: 10.1037/a0034832. Epub 2013 Nov 4.

Whose IQ is it?--Assessor bias variance in high-stakes psychological assessment.

McDermott PA(1), Watkins MW(2), Rhoad AM(1).

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Education.
(2)Department of Educational Psychology, Baylor University.

Assessor bias variance exists for a psychological measure when some appreciable 
portion of the score variation that is assumed to reflect examinees' individual 
differences (i.e., the relevant phenomena in most psychological assessments) 
instead reflects differences among the examiners who perform the assessment. 
Ordinary test reliability estimates and standard errors of measurement do not 
inherently encompass assessor bias variance. This article reports on the 
application of multilevel linear modeling to examine the presence and extent of 
assessor bias in the administration of the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for 
Children-Fourth Edition (WISC-IV) for a sample of 2,783 children evaluated by 
448 regional school psychologists for high-stakes special education 
classification purposes. It was found that nearly all WISC-IV scores conveyed 
significant and nontrivial amounts of variation that had nothing to do with 
children's actual individual differences and that the Full Scale IQ and Verbal 
Comprehension Index scores evidenced quite substantial assessor bias. 
Implications are explored.

2014 APA

DOI: 10.1037/a0034832
PMID: 24188149 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1367. Sch Psychol Q. 2014 Mar;29(1):52-63. doi: 10.1037/spq0000038. Epub 2013 Nov 4.

Bifactor structure of the Wechsler Preschool and Primary Scale of 
Intelligence--Fourth Edition.

Watkins MW(1), Beaujean AA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Educational Psychology, Baylor University.

The Wechsler Preschool and Primary Scale of Intelligence--Fourth Edition 
(WPPSI-IV; Wechsler, 2012) represents a substantial departure from its 
predecessor, including omission of 4 subtests, addition of 5 new subtests, and 
modification of the contents of the 5 retained subtests. Wechsler (2012) 
explicitly assumed a higher-order structure with general intelligence (g) as the 
second-order factor that explained all the covariation of several first-order 
factors but failed to consider a bifactor model. The WPPSI-IV normative sample 
contains 1,700 children aged 2 years and 6 months through 7 years and 7 months, 
bifurcated into 2 age groups: 2:6-3:11 year olds (n = 600) and 4:0-7:7 year olds 
(n = 1,100). This study applied confirmatory factor analysis to the WPPSI-IV 
normative sample data to test the fit of a bifactor model and to determine the 
reliability of the resulting factors. The bifactor model fit the WPPSI-IV 
normative sample data as well as or better than the higher-order models favored 
by Wechsler (2012). In the bifactor model, the general factor accounted for more 
variance in every subtest than did its corresponding domain-specific factor and 
the general factor accounted for more total and common variance than all 
domain-specific factors combined. Further, the domain-specific factors exhibited 
poor reliability independent of g (i.e., ωh coefficients of .05 to .33). These 
results suggest that only the general intelligence dimension was sufficiently 
robust and precise for clinical use.

PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/spq0000038
PMID: 24188289 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1368. J Clin Oncol. 2013 Dec 10;31(35):4407-15. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2012.48.2315. Epub 
2013 Nov 4.

Neurocognitive outcomes decades after treatment for childhood acute 
lymphoblastic leukemia: a report from the St Jude lifetime cohort study.

Krull KR(1), Brinkman TM, Li C, Armstrong GT, Ness KK, Srivastava DK, Gurney JG, 
Kimberg C, Krasin MJ, Pui CH, Robison LL, Hudson MM.

Author information:
(1)All authors: St Jude Children's Research Hospital, Memphis, TN.

PURPOSE: To determine rates, patterns, and predictors of neurocognitive 
impairment in adults decades after treatment for childhood acute lymphoblastic 
leukemia (ALL).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Survivors of childhood ALL treated at St Jude Children's 
Research Hospital who were still alive at 10 or more years after diagnosis and 
were age ≥ 18 years were recruited for neurocognitive testing. In all, 1,014 
survivors were eligible, 738 (72.8%) agreed to participate, and 567 (76.8%) of 
these were evaluated. Mean age was 33 years; mean time since diagnosis was 26 
years. Medical record abstraction was performed for data on doses of cranial 
radiation therapy (CRT) and cumulative chemotherapy. Multivariable modeling was 
conducted and glmulti package was used to select the best model with minimum 
Akaike information criterion.
RESULTS: Impairment rates across neurocognitive domains ranged from 28.6% to 
58.9%, and those treated with chemotherapy only demonstrated increased 
impairment in all domains (all P values < .006). In survivors who received no 
CRT, dexamethasone was associated with impaired attention (relative risk [RR], 
2.12; 95% CI, 1.11 to 4.03) and executive function (RR, 2.42; 95% CI, 1.20 to 
4.91). The impact of CRT was dependent on young age at diagnosis for 
intelligence, academic, and memory functions. Risk for executive function 
problems increased with survival time in a CRT dose-dependent fashion. In all 
survivors, self-reported behavior problems increased by 5% (RR, 1.05; 95% CI, 
1.01 to 1.09) with each year from diagnosis. Impairment was associated with 
reduced educational attainment and unemployment.
CONCLUSION: This study demonstrates persistent and significant neurocognitive 
impairment in adult survivors of childhood ALL and warrants ongoing monitoring 
of brain health to facilitate successful adult development and to detect early 
onset of decline as survivors mature.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2012.48.2315
PMCID: PMC3842908
PMID: 24190124 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Authors' disclosures of potential conflicts of 
interest and author contributions are found at the end of this article.


1369. J Zhejiang Univ Sci B. 2013 Nov;14(11):947-60. doi: 10.1631/jzus.B1300101.

An overview of studies on psychological well-being in children born following 
assisted reproductive technologies.

Zhan QT(1), Pan PP, Xu XR, Lou HY, Lou YY, Jin F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Reproductive Endocrinology, Women's Hospital, School of 
Medicine, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310006, China.

Over the course of the past 35 years, assisted reproductive technologies (ARTs) 
have been increasingly used worldwide, while debates on their safety have been 
generated. Birth defects and imprinting disorders were reported in previous 
research. Thus, the psychological development of children born following ARTs 
has become a major concern nowadays. This review gives a systematic view of 
psychological well-being of children conceived by different types of ART, 
including in vitro fertilization, intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI), 
preimplantation genetic diagnosis/screening, and in vitro maturation. The 
previous studies are analyzed in three sections: (1) cognitive, motor, and 
language developments, (2) behavior problems and socio-emotional development, 
and (3) parent-child relationship. We conclude that although the majority of the 
studies on cognitive, motor, and language developments reported comparable 
achievements in the ART group vs. the naturally conceived group, lower 
intelligence quotient (IQ) scores, worse visual-motor ability or locomotor 
development, and delayed receptive language competence were found in the ART 
group. The results on the socio-emotional development were reassuring. As for 
the behavior problems, a higher prevalence of behavior problems existed in ART 
children; moreover, ICSI children were found to be at a higher risk of autism 
than the general population. Meanwhile, ART parents tended to have positive 
parental attitudes and be more protective of their children. Some suggestions 
for further research are also given in this review.

DOI: 10.1631/jzus.B1300101
PMCID: PMC3829644
PMID: 24190441 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Compliance with ethics guidelines: Qi-tao ZHAN, 
Pei-pei PAN, Xiang-rong XU, Hang-ying LOU, Yi-yun LOU, and Fan JIN declare that 
they have no conflict of interest. This article does not contain any studies 
with human or animal subjects performed by any of the authors.


1370. Circulation. 2014 Jan 14;129(2):186-93. doi: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.113.002065. 
Epub 2013 Nov 4.

Mental disorders across the adult life course and future coronary heart disease: 
evidence for general susceptibility.

Gale CR(1), Batty GD, Osborn DP, Tynelius P, Rasmussen F.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Cognitive Ageing & Cognitive Epidemiology, Department of 
Psychology, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK (C.R.G., G.D.B.); MRC 
Lifecourse Epidemiology Unit, University of Southampton, Southampton, UK 
(C.R.G.); Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, University College 
London, London, UK (G.D.B.); University College London Mental Health Sciences 
Unit, University College London, London, UK (D.P.J.O.); Child and Adolescent 
Public Health Epidemiology Unit, Department of Public Health Sciences, 
Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden (P.T., F.R.); and Centre for 
Epidemiology and Community Medicine Stockholm County Council, Health Care 
Services, Stockholm, Sweden (P.T., F.R.).

Erratum in
    Circulation. 2015 May 19;131(20):e501.

Comment in
    Circulation. 2014 Jan 14;129(2):139-41.
    Circulation. 2014 Sep 23;130(13):e116.

BACKGROUND: Depression, anxiety, and psychotic disorders have been associated 
with an increased risk of coronary heart disease (CHD). It is unclear whether 
this association between mental health and CHD is present across a wider range 
of mental disorders.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Participants were 1 107 524 Swedish men conscripted at a 
mean age of 18.3 years. Mental disorders were assessed by psychiatric interview 
on conscription, and data on hospital admissions for mental disorder and CHD 
were obtained from national registers during 22.6 years of follow-up. An 
increased risk of incident CHD was evident across a range of mental disorders 
whether diagnosed at conscription or on later hospital admission. Age-adjusted 
hazard ratios (95% confidence intervals) according to diagnoses at conscription 
ranged from 1.30 (1.05, 1.62) (depressive disorders) to 1.90 (1.58, 2.38) 
(alcohol-related disorders). [corrected]. The equivalent figures according to 
diagnoses during hospital admission ranged from 1.49 (1.24-1.80) (schizophrenia) 
to 2.82 (2.53-3.13) (other substance use disorders). Associations were little 
changed by adjustment for parental socioeconomic status, or body mass index, 
diabetes mellitus, and blood pressure measured at conscription, but they were 
partially attenuated by the adjustment for smoking, alcohol intake, and 
intelligence measured at conscription, and for education and own socioeconomic 
position.
CONCLUSIONS: Increased risk of incident CHD is present across a range of mental 
disorders and is observable when the disorders are diagnosed at a young age.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.113.002065
PMCID: PMC4107269
PMID: 24190959 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1371. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2013 Nov 19;110(47):19006-11. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.1313735110. Epub 2013 Nov 4.

Genetic basis of neurocognitive decline and reduced white-matter integrity in 
normal human brain aging.

Glahn DC(1), Kent JW Jr, Sprooten E, Diego VP, Winkler AM, Curran JE, McKay DR, 
Knowles EE, Carless MA, Göring HH, Dyer TD, Olvera RL, Fox PT, Almasy L, 
Charlesworth J, Kochunov P, Duggirala R, Blangero J.

Author information:
(1)Olin Neuropsychiatry Research Center, Institute of Living, Hartford Hospital, 
CT 06106.

Identification of genes associated with brain aging should markedly improve our 
understanding of the biological processes that govern normal age-related 
decline. However, challenges to identifying genes that facilitate successful 
brain aging are considerable, including a lack of established phenotypes and 
difficulties in modeling the effects of aging per se, rather than genes that 
influence the underlying trait. In a large cohort of randomly selected pedigrees 
(n = 1,129 subjects), we documented profound aging effects from young adulthood 
to old age (18-83 y) on neurocognitive ability and diffusion-based white-matter 
measures. Despite significant phenotypic correlation between white-matter 
integrity and tests of processing speed, working memory, declarative memory, and 
intelligence, no evidence for pleiotropy between these classes of phenotypes was 
observed. Applying an advanced quantitative gene-by-environment interaction 
analysis where age is treated as an environmental factor, we demonstrate a 
heritable basis for neurocognitive deterioration as a function of age. 
Furthermore, by decomposing gene-by-aging (G × A) interactions, we infer that 
different genes influence some neurocognitive traits as a function of age, 
whereas other neurocognitive traits are influenced by the same genes, but to 
differential levels, from young adulthood to old age. In contrast, increasing 
white-matter incoherence with age appears to be nongenetic. These results 
clearly demonstrate that traits sensitive to the genetic influences on brain 
aging can be identified, a critical first step in delineating the biological 
mechanisms of successful aging.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1313735110
PMCID: PMC3839730
PMID: 24191011 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


1372. Appl Neuropsychol Child. 2015;4(1):31-40. doi: 10.1080/21622965.2013.790821. 
Epub 2013 Nov 5.

A neurodevelopmental approach to understanding memory processes among 
intellectually gifted youth with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder.

Whitaker AM(1), Bell TS, Houskamp BM, O'Callaghan ET.

Author information:
(1)a California School of Professional Psychology , Alliant International 
University , Los Angeles , California.

Intellectual giftedness is associated with strong strategic verbal memory while 
attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is associated with strategic 
verbal memory deficits; however, no previous research has explored how this 
contradiction manifests in gifted populations with diagnoses of ADHD. The 
purpose of this study was to explore strategic verbal memory processes among 
intellectually gifted youth with and without ADHD to provide clarification 
regarding this specific aspect of neuropsychological functioning within this 
population. One hundred twenty-five youth completed neuropsychological 
evaluations including the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children-Fourth 
Edition and California Verbal Learning Test-Children's Version (CVLT-C). Results 
revealed significant differences between groups, with intellectually gifted 
youth with ADHD achieving lower T scores on CVLT-C Trials 1 through 5 compared 
with intellectually gifted youth without ADHD, and intellectually gifted youth 
with ADHD achieving higher T scores than youth of average intellectual abilities 
with ADHD. Additionally, repeated-measures analysis of variance revealed a main 
effect improvement among gifted youth with ADHD in short-delay recall when 
provided with organizational cues. Findings revealed new evidence about the role 
of twice exceptionality (specifically intellectual giftedness and ADHD) in 
strategic verbal memory and have important implications for parents, educators, 
psychologists and neuropsychologists, and other mental health professionals 
working with this population.

DOI: 10.1080/21622965.2013.790821
PMID: 24191777 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1373. Am J Med Genet A. 2013 Dec;161A(12):2964-71. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.a.36245. Epub 
2013 Nov 5.

Cognitive, sensory, and psychosocial characteristics in patients with 
Bardet-Biedl syndrome.

Brinckman DD(1), Keppler-Noreuil KM, Blumhorst C, Biesecker LG, Sapp JC, 
Johnston JJ, Wiggs EA.

Author information:
(1)Genetic Disease Research Branch, National Human Genome Research Institute, 
National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland.

Forty-two patients with a clinical diagnosis of Bardet-Biedl syndrome ages 2-61 
years were given a neuropsychological test battery to evaluate cognitive, 
sensory, and behavioral functioning. These tests included the Wechsler scales of 
intelligence, Rey Auditory Verbal Learning Test, Boston Naming Test, D-KEFS 
Verbal Fluency Test, D-KEFS Color-Word Interference Test, D-KEFS Sorting Test, 
Wide Range Achievement Test: Math and Reading Subtests, Purdue Pegboard, The 
University of Pennsylvania Smell Identification Test, Social Communication 
Questionnaire, Social Responsiveness Scale, and Behavior Assessment System for 
Children, Second Edition, Parent Rating Scale. On the age appropriate Wechsler 
scale, the mean Verbal Comprehension was 81 (n = 36), Working Memory was 81 (n = 
36), Perceptual Reasoning was 78 (n = 24) and Full Scale IQ was 75 (n = 26). 
Memory for a word list (Rey Auditory Verbal Learning Test) was in the average 
range with a mean of 89 (n = 19). Fine motor speed was slow on the Purdue with 
mean scores 3-4 standard deviations below norms. All subjects were microsmic on 
the University of Pennsylvania Smell Identification Test. Of these 42 patients, 
only 6 were able to complete all auditory and visual tests; 52% were unable to 
complete the visual tests due to impaired vision. A wide range of behavioral 
issues were endorsed on questionnaires given to parents. Most had social skill 
deficits but no pattern of either externalizing or internalizing problems. We 
identify a characteristic neuro-behavioral profile in our cohort comprised of 
reduced IQ, impaired fine-motor function, and decreased olfaction.

© 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.a.36245
PMCID: PMC4419571
PMID: 24194441 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1374. PLoS One. 2013 Oct 23;8(10):e77579. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0077579. 
eCollection 2013.

The relationship between trait emotional intelligence and interaction with 
ostracized others' retaliation.

Nozaki Y(1), Koyasu M.

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Education, Kyoto University, Kyoto, Japan ; Japan Society 
for the Promotion of Science, Tokyo, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Regulation of emotions in others is distinct from other activities 
related to trait emotional intelligence in that only such behavior can directly 
change other people's psychological states. Although emotional intelligence has 
generally been associated with prosociality, emotionally intelligent people may 
manipulate others' behaviors to suit their own interests using high-level 
capabilities to read and manage the emotions of others. This study investigated 
how trait emotional intelligence was related to interacting with ostracized 
others who attempt retaliation.
METHOD: We experimentally manipulated whether two people were simultaneously 
ostracized or not by using an online ball-tossing game called Cyberball. Eighty 
university students participated in Cyberball for manipulating ostracism and a 
"recommendation game," a variation of the ultimatum game for assessing how to 
interact with others who attempt retaliation, with four participants. After the 
recommendation game, participants rated their intention to retaliate during the 
game.
RESULTS: People with higher interpersonal emotional intelligence were more 
likely to recommend that the ostracized other should inhibit retaliation and 
maximize additional rewards when they have a weaker intention to retaliate. 
However, they were more likely to recommend that the ostracized other should 
retaliate against the ostracizers when they have a stronger intention to 
retaliate.
CONCLUSION: This is the first laboratory study that empirically reveals that 
people with high interpersonal emotional intelligence influence others' emotions 
based on their own goals contrary to the general view. Trait emotional 
intelligence itself is neither positive nor negative, but it can facilitate 
interpersonal behaviors for achieving goals. Our study offers valuable 
contributions for the refinement of the trait emotional intelligence concept in 
the respect of its social function.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0077579
PMCID: PMC3806795
PMID: 24194890 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


1375. Healthc Inform Res. 2013 Sep;19(3):162-6. doi: 10.4258/hir.2013.19.3.162. Epub 
2013 Sep 30.

Multi-agent system as a new approach to effective chronic heart failure 
management: key considerations.

Mohammadzadeh N(1), Safdari R, Rahimi A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Information Management, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.

OBJECTIVES: Given the importance of the follow-up of chronic heart failure (CHF) 
patients to reduce common causes of re-admission and deterioration of their 
status that lead to imposing spiritual and physical costs on patients and 
society, modern technology tools should be used to the best advantage. The aim 
of this article is to explain key points which should be considered in designing 
an appropriate multi-agent system to improve CHF management.
METHODS: In this literature review articles were searched with keywords like 
multi-agent system, heart failure, chronic disease management in Science Direct, 
Google Scholar and PubMed databases without regard to the year of publications.
RESULTS: Agents are an innovation in the field of artificial intelligence. 
Because agents are capable of solving complex and dynamic health problems, to 
take full advantage of e-Health, the healthcare system must take steps to make 
use of this technology. Key factors in CHF management through a multi-agent 
system approach must be considered such as organization, confidentiality in 
general aspects and design and architecture points in specific aspects.
CONCLUSIONS: Note that use of agent systems only with a technical view is 
associated with many problems. Hence, in delivering healthcare to CHF patients, 
considering social and human aspects is essential. It is obvious that 
identifying and resolving technical and non-technical challenges is vital in the 
successful implementation of this technology.

DOI: 10.4258/hir.2013.19.3.162
PMCID: PMC3810523
PMID: 24195010

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest relevant to 
this article was reported.


1376. Zhongguo Zhen Jiu. 2013 Aug;33(8):682-5.

[Clinical research on children mental retardation treated with acupuncture].

[Article in Chinese]

Huang JB(1), Cao HF, Hu J, Liu LH, Wang Z, Lin H.

Author information:
(1)Physiotherapy Department, Guangdong Public Security Frontier Defense General 
Hospital, Shenzhen 518029, China. huang92700@21cn.com

OBJECTIVE: To observe the impacts of acupuncture on intelligent structure, 
social adaptability and fMRI brain function in children mental retardation (MR).
METHODS: Sixty cases of MR in compliance with the diagnostic standard were 
randomized into an acupuncture group and a medication group, 30 cases in each 
one. In the acupuncture group, Sishenzhen [four points, 1.5 cun anterior, 
posterior and bilateral to Baihui (GV 20)], Zhisanzhen [Shenting (GV 24), 
bilateral Benshen (GB 13)], Niesanzhen (the point 2 cun directly above the ear 
a-pex, the two points 1 cun bilateral the first point) and Naosanzhan [Naohu (GV 
17) and bilateral Naohu (GB 19)] were selected as the main points. In the 
medication group, piracetam tablets were prescribed for oral administration. One 
course of treatment was 4 months in the two groups. The comprehensive efficacy 
was compared between the two groups at the end of treatment course. 
China-Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children (C-WISC) was used to assess the 
intelligent improvements. Infant-Junior School Student Social Life Ability Scale 
was adopted to assess the improvements of social adaptability. Five cases were 
selected from the acupuncture group and fMRI was adopted to compare the brain 
function imaging changes before and after acupuncture treatment.
METHODS: In the acupuncture group, the final intelligence quotient (FIQ) and 
social adaptability score after treatment were higher than those before 
treatment (P<0.05), of which, the performance intelligence quotient (PIQ) was 
improved significantly, indicating the statistically significant difference 
(P<0.05). But the verbal intelligence quotient (VIQ) did not change apparently 
(P>0.05). In the medication group, the changes in all the indices were not 
apparent before and after treatment (P>0.05). In comparison of the changes after 
treatment between the two groups, FIQ, PIQ and social adaptability score in the 
acupuncture group were improved more significantly as compared with the 
medication group (P<0.05). The fMRI brain function images did not change 
apparently before and after treatment in those 5 cases of the acupuncture group.
CONCLUSION: Acupuncture promotes the intelligent recovery of MR children and 
improves their social adaptability. It indicates the satisfactory clinical 
efficacy. But, the fMRI brain function images do not change apparently before 
and after treatment.

PMID: 24195205 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1377. Epilepsy Behav. 2013 Dec;29(3):565-70. doi: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2013.10.012. Epub 
2013 Nov 5.

Intelligence two years after epilepsy surgery in children.

Viggedal G(1), Olsson I, Carlsson G, Rydenhag B, Uvebrant P.

Author information:
(1)Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Gothenburg, Sweden.

Intelligence before and two years after epilepsy surgery was assessed in 94 
children and adolescents and related to preoperative IQ and seizure outcome. The 
median full-scale IQ was 70 before and two years after surgery. The proportion 
with a higher or unchanged postoperative IQ was 24 of 49 (49%) of those with an 
IQ of 70 and more before surgery, nine of 17 (53%) of those with an IQ of 50-69, 
and ten of 28 (36%) of those with an IQ of less than 50. A significant 
difference was found between the 47 individuals who became seizure-free and the 
47 with persisting seizures, as 60% of the seizure-free children had a higher or 
unchanged IQ compared with 32% of the 47 who were not seizure-free. The 
cognitive outcome of children with intellectual disabilities was as good as that 
of children with average IQ. Thus, they should not be excluded from epilepsy 
surgery on the basis of low intellectual level.

© 2013. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2013.10.012
PMID: 24201119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1378. Front Psychol. 2013 Nov 4;4:801. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2013.00801. eCollection 
2013.

Linear combination of one-step predictive information with an external reward in 
an episodic policy gradient setting: a critical analysis.

Zahedi K(1), Martius G, Ay N.

Author information:
(1)Max Planck Institute for Mathematics in the Sciences Leipzig, Germany.

One of the main challenges in the field of embodied artificial intelligence is 
the open-ended autonomous learning of complex behaviors. Our approach is to use 
task-independent, information-driven intrinsic motivation(s) to support 
task-dependent learning. The work presented here is a preliminary step in which 
we investigate the predictive information (the mutual information of the past 
and future of the sensor stream) as an intrinsic drive, ideally supporting any 
kind of task acquisition. Previous experiments have shown that the predictive 
information (PI) is a good candidate to support autonomous, open-ended learning 
of complex behaviors, because a maximization of the PI corresponds to an 
exploration of morphology- and environment-dependent behavioral regularities. 
The idea is that these regularities can then be exploited in order to solve any 
given task. Three different experiments are presented and their results lead to 
the conclusion that the linear combination of the one-step PI with an external 
reward function is not generally recommended in an episodic policy gradient 
setting. Only for hard tasks a great speed-up can be achieved at the cost of an 
asymptotic performance lost.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2013.00801
PMCID: PMC3816314
PMID: 24204351


1379. No To Hattatsu. 2013 Sep;45(5):355-9.

[Efficacy of visual cognitive function tests in health examinations of 
five-year-old children].

[Article in Japanese]

Inaba Y(1), Niimi T, Nishimura T, Misawa Y, Fukuyama T, Higuchi T, Taki Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Shinshu University School of Medicine, Matsumoto, 
Nagano. inabay@shinshu-u.ac.jp

OBJECTIVE: Health examination programs for five-year-old children are aimed at 
effectively detecting developmental disorders, such as attention 
deficit/hyperactivity disorders (AD/HD), learning disorders (LD), higher 
functioning autistic spectrum disorders (HFASD), and other abnormalities. Tests 
usually include a questionnaire and observation of group playing, verbal 
communication, and soft neurological signs; however, it is often difficult to 
detect children who have LD with visual cognitive dysfunctions through such 
conventional examination techniques. Here, we analyzed the efficacy of using a 
battery of visual cognitive function tests to identify such cases.
METHODS: We employed four simple tests to evaluate visual cognitive function in 
addition to a standard health examination for five-year-old between April 2008 
and March 2010. To analyze visual cognitive function tests, the results were 
scored and the applicability of these tests was verified by comparisons with 
established tests.
RESULTS: A total of 653 five-year-old children underwent health examinations, 
and 48 children were referred to the hospital for further examinations. As a 
result, 34 children were newly diagnosed with developmental disorders, including 
HFASD, AD/HD, LD, and mild intellectual disturbances. Strong correlations were 
seen between the scores of these four examinations and those of other 
established tests, such as the performance intelligence score, the perceptual 
organization index of WISC-III, and the Frostig visual development test score. 
An additional benefit of our method was that parents could easily recognize 
developmental disorders in their children through direct observation of these 
examinations.
CONCLUSIONS: We concluded that the battery of visual cognitive function tests 
was simple and useful for detecting developmental disorders in the health 
examinations of five-year-old children.

PMID: 24205689 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1380. No To Hattatsu. 2013 Sep;45(5):366-70.

[Clinical features of girls with Asperger disorders].

[Article in Japanese]

Yamauchi Y(1), Miyao M, Okuyama M, Ida H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychosocial Medicine, National Center for Child Health and 
Development, Tokyo. yu-chan@wk9.so-net.ne.jp

OBJECTIVES: Symptoms of Asperger disorder (AD) in girls are often different from 
those in boys. In this study, the characteristics of girls with AD were 
examined.
METHODS: We retrospectively examined the records of 63 boys and 33 girls with 
AD. We evaluated the age, main problems, complications, and the Wechsler 
Intelligence Scale for Children (3rd Ed) scores.
RESULTS: About 73% of girls were diagnosed with AD between 10 and 15 years of 
age, and they had physical complications or problems in the autonomic nervous 
system. Girls scored significantly lower in Mathematics score, and Block Design 
score than boys.
CONCLUSIONS: The results suggest that there are differences in the AD symptoms 
exhibited by boys and girls. Further research is required to clarify the 
behavioral, neurological, and genetic links to these gender differences. In 
order to prevent secondary complications, it is necessary to establish specific 
diagnostic criteria for girls with AD.

PMID: 24205691 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1381. Emerg Health Threats J. 2013 Nov 8;6:21621. doi: 10.3402/ehtj.v6i0.21621.

Quantifying the effect of media limitations on outbreak data in a global online 
web-crawling epidemic intelligence system, 2008-2011.

Scales D(1), Zelenev A, Brownstein JS.

Author information:
(1)Children's Hospital Informatics Program, Boston Children's Hospital, Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, MA, USA; Center for Biomedical Informatics, Boston 
Children's Hospital, Harvard University, Boston, MA, USA; 
david.scales@aya.yale.edu.

BACKGROUND: This is the first study quantitatively evaluating the effect that 
media-related limitations have on data from an automated epidemic intelligence 
system.
METHODS: We modeled time series of HealthMap's two main data feeds, Google News 
and Moreover, to test for evidence of two potential limitations: first, human 
resources constraints, and second, high-profile outbreaks "crowding out" 
coverage of other infectious diseases.
RESULTS: Google News events declined by 58.3%, 65.9%, and 14.7% on Saturday, 
Sunday and Monday, respectively, relative to other weekdays. Events were reduced 
by 27.4% during Christmas/New Years weeks and 33.6% lower during American 
Thanksgiving week than during an average week for Google News. Moreover data 
yielded similar results with the addition of Memorial Day (US) being associated 
with a 36.2% reduction in events. Other holiday effects were not statistically 
significant. We found evidence for a crowd out phenomenon for influenza/H1N1, 
where a 50% increase in influenza events corresponded with a 4% decline in other 
disease events for Google News only. Other prominent diseases in this database - 
avian influenza (H5N1), cholera, or foodborne illness - were not associated with 
a crowd out phenomenon.
CONCLUSIONS: These results provide quantitative evidence for the limited impact 
of editorial biases on HealthMap's web-crawling epidemic intelligence.

DOI: 10.3402/ehtj.v6i0.21621
PMCID: PMC3822088
PMID: 24206612 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1382. Compr Psychiatry. 2014 Jan;55(1):145-54. doi: 10.1016/j.comppsych.2013.06.011. 
Epub 2013 Oct 9.

Are neuropsychological deficits after trauma associated with ASD severity?

Suliman S(1), Troeman Z, Stein DJ, Seedat S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, MRC Anxiety Disorders Unit, Stellenbosch 
University, Cape Town, South Africa. Electronic address: sharain@sun.ac.za.

Acute stress disorder (ASD) is a fairly common sequela of traumatic exposure, 
and a significant proportion of those with the disorder go on to develop PTSD. 
Although neuropsychological deficits soon after trauma exposure have been 
associated with subsequent PTSD onset, few studies have assessed their 
association with ASD severity. We sought to investigate neuropsychological 
predictors of ASD severity in a sample of 128 motor vehicle accident (MVA) 
survivors, while controlling for potential confounders, such as demographic 
characteristics, other psychiatric diagnoses, and intelligence. We conducted 
clinical and neuropsychological assessments approximately 10.3 ± 4.5 days after 
an MVA. Our findings showed that delayed verbal recall was significantly 
associated with ASD severity, explaining 12.6% of the variance. However, a large 
proportion of the variance in ASD severity, 13.6%, was also explained by suicide 
risk. Effect size of the model was moderate (f(2) = 0.171). Suicide risk and 
delayed verbal recall appear to be moderately associated with ASD severity after 
a MVA and may be useful indicators of distress in in acute trauma survivors.

© 2014.

DOI: 10.1016/j.comppsych.2013.06.011
PMID: 24209608 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1383. Psychiatry Res. 2014 Jan 30;215(1):9-13. doi: 10.1016/j.psychres.2013.10.011. 
Epub 2013 Oct 23.

Inverse association between 18-carbon trans fatty acids and intelligence 
quotients in smoking schizophrenia patients.

Lohner S(1), Vágási J(2), Marosvölgyi T(2), Tényi T(3), Decsi T(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Pécs, József A. u. 7, H-7623 Pécs, 
Hungary. Electronic address: lohner.szimonetta@pte.hu.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, University of Pécs, József A. u. 7, H-7623 Pécs, 
Hungary.
(3)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University of Pécs, Pécs, 
Hungary.

This study aimed to investigate polyunsaturated (PUFA) and trans isomeric fatty 
acid status in schizophrenia patients. Fatty acid composition of plasma 
phospholipids (PL) and triacylglycerols (TG) was analyzed by gas chromatography 
in 29 schizophrenia patients and 15 healthy controls. We found no difference in 
PL n-3 fatty acid status between the two groups, while the values of 22:5n-6 
were significantly higher in patients with schizophrenia than in controls. In 
TG, values of docosatrienoic acid (20:3n-3) and docosapentaenoic acid (20:5n-3) 
were significantly higher in schizophrenia patients than in controls. We found 
no difference in the trans fatty acid status between patients and controls. In 
smoking schizophrenia patients significant negative correlations were detected 
between Wechsler adult full-scale intelligence quotients and values of total 
trans fatty acids in PL lipids, whereas no such correlation was seen either in 
non-smoking schizophrenia patients, or in healthy controls. While data obtained 
in the present study fail to furnish evidence for n-3 PUFA supplementation to 
the diet of patients with schizophrenia, they indicate that in smoking 
schizophrenia patients high dietary exposure to trans fatty acids is associated 
with lower intelligence quotients.

© 2013 Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2013.10.011
PMID: 24210662 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1384. J Neurol Sci. 2014 Jan 15;336(1-2):184-90. doi: 10.1016/j.jns.2013.10.037. Epub 
2013 Oct 29.

Relationships between ophthalmic artery flow direction and cognitive performance 
in patients with unilateral carotid artery stenosis.

Huang KL(1), Chang TY(1), Chang CH(1), Liu HL(2), Chang YJ(1), Liu CH(1), Lee 
TH(3), Ho MY(4).

Author information:
(1)Stroke Center and Department of Neurology, Linkou Chang Gung Memorial 
Hospital and College of Medicine, Chang Gung University, Taoyuan, Taiwan.
(2)Department of Medical Imaging and Radiological Sciences, Chang Gung 
University, Taoyuan, Taiwan.
(3)Stroke Center and Department of Neurology, Linkou Chang Gung Memorial 
Hospital and College of Medicine, Chang Gung University, Taoyuan, Taiwan. 
Electronic address: thlee@adm.cgmh.org.tw.
(4)Clinical Psychology Program, c/o Department of Occupational Therapy, Chang 
Gung University, Taoyuan, Taiwan. Electronic address: myho@mail.cgu.edu.tw.

BACKGROUND: Cerebral hypoperfusion is responsible for cognitive impairment in 
patients with severe carotid artery stenosis (CAS). The manifestation of 
reversed ophthalmic artery flow (ROAF) is not uncommon in patients with CAS, 
suggesting a state of intensified cerebral hypoperfusion. This study aimed to 
examine whether the presence of ROAF can exacerbate cognitive impairment in 
patients with severe unilateral CAS.
METHODS: One-hundred-and-two patients with CAS and 37 age-matched volunteers 
participated in this case-control study. Depending on the side of CAS and 
occurrences of ROAF, the patients were allocated to four groups: left CAS groups 
with ROAF (n=28) or without ROAF (n=22), and right CAS groups with ROAF (n=26) 
or without ROAF (n=26). All subjects underwent a battery of neuropsychological 
tests.
RESULTS: All patients performed worse than the control group on most tests. No 
significant differences were observed between patient groups (ps>0.05), except 
for inferior performance on psychomotor speed and visuospatial tests in the 
right ROAF group (ps<0.03). Hierarchical regression analyses indicated strong 
contributions of estimated premorbid intelligence to performance on most tests 
(ps<0.05). The severity of left and right CAS was distinctively associated with 
different functions. To a lesser extent, the severity of infarcts was also 
associated with impairment of psychomotor speed and some executive functions 
(ps<0.05). The contributions of ROAF to performance on most tests were 
negligible.
CONCLUSION: Patients with unilateral CAS may present with specific cognitive 
impairment relevant to the ipsilateral hemispheric functions. However, the 
manifestation of ROAF does not necessarily imply more extensive or severe 
cognitive impairment.

© 2013.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jns.2013.10.037
PMID: 24211063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1385. Neurotoxicology. 2014 Jan;40:16-22. doi: 10.1016/j.neuro.2013.10.006. Epub 2013 
Nov 6.

Exposure to metals during pregnancy and neuropsychological development at the 
age of 4 years.

Forns J(1), Fort M(2), Casas M(3), Cáceres A(3), Guxens M(4), Gascon M(3), 
Garcia-Esteban R(3), Julvez J(5), Grimalt JO(2), Sunyer J(6).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Research in Environmental Epidemiology (CREAL), Barcelona, Spain; 
Universitat Pompeu Fabra, Barcelona, Spain; CIBER Epidemiologia y Salud Pública 
(CIBERESP), Barcelona, Spain. Electronic address: jforns@creal.cat.
(2)Department of Environmental Chemistry, Institute of Environmental Assessment 
and Water Research, Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain.
(3)Centre for Research in Environmental Epidemiology (CREAL), Barcelona, Spain; 
Universitat Pompeu Fabra, Barcelona, Spain; CIBER Epidemiologia y Salud Pública 
(CIBERESP), Barcelona, Spain.
(4)Centre for Research in Environmental Epidemiology (CREAL), Barcelona, Spain; 
Universitat Pompeu Fabra, Barcelona, Spain; CIBER Epidemiologia y Salud Pública 
(CIBERESP), Barcelona, Spain; Institute for Risk Assessment Sciences, Division 
of Environmental Epidemiology, Utrecht University, The Netherlands.
(5)Centre for Research in Environmental Epidemiology (CREAL), Barcelona, Spain; 
Universitat Pompeu Fabra, Barcelona, Spain; CIBER Epidemiologia y Salud Pública 
(CIBERESP), Barcelona, Spain; Department of Environmental Health, Harvard School 
of Public Health, Boston, MA, USA; IMIM (Hospital del Mar Medical Research 
Institute), Barcelona, Spain.
(6)Centre for Research in Environmental Epidemiology (CREAL), Barcelona, Spain; 
Universitat Pompeu Fabra, Barcelona, Spain; CIBER Epidemiologia y Salud Pública 
(CIBERESP), Barcelona, Spain; IMIM (Hospital del Mar Medical Research 
Institute), Barcelona, Spain.

BACKGROUND: There is insufficient epidemiological evidence for deciding whether 
prenatal exposure to the current low-levels of metals in developed countries may 
affect neuropsychological function in early childhood.
OBJECTIVES: Our goal was to evaluate potential neurotoxic effects of prenatal 
exposure to seven metals (cobalt, copper, arsenic, cadmium, antimony, thallium 
and lead), during the 1st and 3rd trimester of pregnancy, on child 
neuropsychological development at 4 years of age.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This study was based on a population-based birth cohort 
established in Sabadell (Catalonia, Spain) as part of the INMA [Environment and 
Childhood] Project. Metals were measured in 485 urine samples collected from 
mothers during the 1st and 3rd trimester of pregnancy. We assessed the 
neuropsychological development of 553 4-year-olds with the McCarthy Scales of 
Childrens' Abilitites (MSCA), together with their ADHD symptomatology, using the 
ADHD-DSM-IV criteria. A total of 385 children were included in the present 
study.
RESULTS: We found no statistically significant associations between metals and 
general cognitive scale or executive function of the MSCA. We found negative 
coefficients for the exposure to cadmium 1st trimester, cadmium 3rd trimester 
and lead 3rd trimester on the general cognitive score of MSCA, although these 
results were not significant. We did not find any association between prenatal 
exposure to metals and ADHD symptomatology at the age of 4 years.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results do not suggest that prenatal exposure to current 
low-levels of metals impairs children's cognitive development during preschool 
years.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuro.2013.10.006
PMID: 24211492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1386. Biosystems. 2014 Jan;115:23-32. doi: 10.1016/j.biosystems.2013.10.007. Epub 2013 
Nov 6.

Dynamical and topological robustness of the mammalian cell cycle network: a 
reverse engineering approach.

Ruz GA(1), Goles E(2), Montalva M(2), Fogel GB(3).

Author information:
(1)Facultad de Ingeniería y Ciencias, Universidad Adolfo Ibáñez, Av. Diagonal 
Las Torres 2640, Santiago, Chile. Electronic address: gonzalo.ruz@uai.cl.
(2)Facultad de Ingeniería y Ciencias, Universidad Adolfo Ibáñez, Av. Diagonal 
Las Torres 2640, Santiago, Chile.
(3)Natural Selection, Inc., 5910 Pacific Center Boulevard, Suite 315, San Diego, 
CA 92121, USA.

A common gene regulatory network model is the threshold Boolean network, used 
for example to model the Arabidopsis thaliana floral morphogenesis network or 
the fission yeast cell cycle network. In this paper, we analyze a logical model 
of the mammalian cell cycle network and its threshold Boolean network 
equivalent. Firstly, the robustness of the network was explored with respect to 
update perturbations, in particular, what happened to the attractors for all the 
deterministic updating schemes. Results on the number of different limit cycles, 
limit cycle lengths, basin of attraction size, for all the deterministic 
updating schemes were obtained through mathematical and computational tools. 
Secondly, we analyzed the topology robustness of the network, by reconstructing 
synthetic networks that contained exactly the same attractors as the original 
model by means of a swarm intelligence approach. Our results indicate that 
networks may not be very robust given the great variety of limit cycles that a 
network can obtain depending on the updating scheme. In addition, we identified 
an omnipresent network with interactions that match with the original model as 
well as the discovery of new interactions. The techniques presented in this 
paper are general, and can be used to analyze other logical or threshold Boolean 
network models of gene regulatory networks.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biosystems.2013.10.007
PMID: 24212100 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1387. Autism. 2015 Jan;19(1):53-63. doi: 10.1177/1362361313510067. Epub 2013 Nov 8.

Narrowing the gap: effects of intervention on developmental trajectories in 
autism.

Klintwall L(1), Eldevik S(2), Eikeseth S(2).

Author information:
(1)Oslo and Akershus University College of Applied Sciences, Norway 
lars.klintwall@hioa.no.
(2)Oslo and Akershus University College of Applied Sciences, Norway.

Although still a matter of some debate, there is a growing body of research 
supporting Early and Intensive Behavioral Intervention as the intervention of 
choice for children with autism. Learning rate is an alternative to change in 
standard scores as an outcome measure in studies of early intervention. Learning 
rates can be displayed graphically as developmental trajectories, which are easy 
to understand and avoid some of the counter-intuitive properties of changes in 
standard scores. The data used in this analysis were from 453 children with 
autism, previously described by Eldevik et al. Children receiving Early and 
Intensive Behavioral Intervention exhibited significantly steeper developmental 
trajectories than children in the control group, in both intelligence and 
adaptive behaviors. However, there was a considerable variability in individual 
learning rates within the group receiving Early and Intensive Behavioral 
Intervention. This variability could partly be explained by the intensity of the 
treatment, partly by children's intake intelligence quotient age-equivalents. 
Age at intake did not co-vary with learning rate.

© The Author(s) 2013.

DOI: 10.1177/1362361313510067
PMID: 24212258 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1388. Biodemography Soc Biol. 2013;59(2):157-77. doi: 10.1080/19485565.2013.833804.

Understanding how family socioeconomic status mediates the maternal 
intelligence-child cognitive outcomes relationship: a moderated mediation 
analysis.

Torres DD(1).

Author information:
(1)a Houston Education Research Consortium , Kinder Institute for Urban 
Research, Rice University , Houston , Texas , USA.

In a model of moderated mediation using matched data from the 1979 National 
Longitudinal Survey of Youth and the 1979 National Longitudinal Survey of Youth, 
Children and Young Adults, I test (1) whether family socioeconomic status (SES) 
mediates the maternal intelligence-child cognitive outcomes relationship and (2) 
the extent to which this mediating impact is dependent on the level of maternal 
intelligence. Results reveal that the mediating impact of SES on the maternal 
intelligence-child cognitive outcomes relationship varies as a function of the 
level of maternal intelligence. The positive effect of higher SES on children's 
academic ability decreases as the cognitive ability of mothers increases, such 
that children in low IQ households benefit most from higher SES, while children 
in high IQ households benefit somewhat less.

DOI: 10.1080/19485565.2013.833804
PMID: 24215257 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1389. Anxiety Stress Coping. 2014;27(4):410-21. doi: 10.1080/10615806.2013.864388. 
Epub 2013 Dec 10.

An investigation of cognitive test performance across conditions of silence, 
background noise and music as a function of neuroticism.

Reynolds J(1), McClelland A, Furnham A.

Author information:
(1)a Research Department of Clinical, Educational and Health Psychology , 
University College London , London , UK.

The present study investigates the role of trait neuroticism on cognitive 
performance under distraction. Seventy participants were given a personality 
test and then undertook a number of different cognitive tasks in silence, in the 
presence of popular music and in background noise. It was predicted that 
performance on a general intelligence test, a test of abstract reasoning, and a 
mental arithmetic task would be adversely affected by background sounds. It was 
predicted that neuroticism would be negatively correlated with performance on 
the mental arithmetic task but only when the individuals were working in the 
presence of background sound. Stable vs. unstable participant's performance on a 
mental arithmetic task during noise was significantly higher as predicted. The 
results provided partial support for the hypotheses and are discussed with 
respect to previous findings in the literature on personality (particularly 
introversion-extraversion) and distraction on cognitive task performance. 
Limitations are noted.

DOI: 10.1080/10615806.2013.864388
PMCID: PMC4066931
PMID: 24215564 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1390. J Exp Psychol Gen. 2014 Jun;143(3):1097-111. doi: 10.1037/a0034985. Epub 2013 
Nov 11.

Does evaluative pressure make you less or more distractible? Role of top-down 
attentional control over response selection.

Normand A(1), Bouquet CA(1), Croizet JC(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre de Recherche sur la Cognition et l'Apprentissage (CERCA UMR 7295), 
Université de Poitiers.

People's ability to resist cognitive distraction is crucial in many situations. 
The present research examines individuals' resistance to attentional distraction 
under conditions of evaluative pressure. In a series of 4 studies, participants 
had to complete various attentional tasks while believing their intelligence was 
or was not under the scrutiny of an experimenter. Using a spatial cuing 
paradigm, Studies 1 through 3 demonstrated that feeling evaluated led 
participants to implement stronger feature-based attentional control, which 
resulted in more (or less) distraction when irrelevant information matched (did 
not match) the searched-for target. Study 4 ruled out the possibility that the 
above effects were due to voluntary shifts of attention and demonstrated that 
the control settings implemented under evaluative pressure resulted in stronger 
goal-contingent response priming. Thus, the way individuals relate to the 
task-the performance context in which they are-induces strong attentional 
selection biases. Altogether, the present findings highlight an overlooked form 
of top-down modulation of attention based on performance self-relevance. 
Implications for both the current models of attentional control and the current 
hypotheses on the impact of evaluative pressure on cognition, as well as the 
consequences for more complex performances, are discussed.

PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/a0034985
PMID: 24219022 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1391. Dev Psychol. 2014 Apr;50(4):1049-1059. doi: 10.1037/a0034913. Epub 2013 Nov 11.

The malleability of working memory and visuospatial skills: a randomized 
controlled study in older adults.

Stepankova H(1), Lukavsky J(1), Buschkuehl M(2), Kopecek M(1), Ripova D(1), 
Jaeggi SM(2).

Author information:
(1)Prague Psychiatric Center.
(2)School of Education, University of California-Irvine.

There is accumulating evidence that training on working memory (WM) generalizes 
to other nontrained domains, and there are reports of transfer effects extending 
as far as to measures of fluid intelligence. Although there have been several 
demonstrations of such transfer effects in young adults and children, they have 
been difficult to demonstrate in older adults. In this study, we investigated 
the generalizing effects of an adaptive WM intervention on nontrained measures 
of WM and visuospatial skills. We randomly assigned healthy older adults to 
train on a verbal n-back task over the course of a month for either 10 or 20 
sessions. Their performance change was compared with that of a control group. 
Our results revealed reliable group effects in nontrained standard clinical 
measures of WM and visuospatial skills in that both training groups outperformed 
the control group. We also observed a dose-response effect, that is, a positive 
relationship between training frequency and the gain in visuospatial skills; 
this finding was further confirmed by a positive correlation between training 
improvement and transfer. The improvements in visuospatial skills emerged even 
though the intervention was restricted to the verbal domain. Our work has 
important implications in that our data provide further evidence for plasticity 
of cognitive functions in old age.

PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/a0034913
PMID: 24219314 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1392. Emotion. 2014 Feb;14(1):145-160. doi: 10.1037/a0034287. Epub 2013 Nov 11.

In the ear of the beholder: how age shapes emotion processing in nonverbal 
vocalizations.

Lima CF(1), Alves T(1), Scott SK(2), Castro SL(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Psychology and Education, University of Porto.
(2)Institute of Cognitive Neuroscience, University College London.

It is well established that emotion recognition of facial expressions declines 
with age, but evidence for age-related differences in vocal emotions is more 
limited. This is especially true for nonverbal vocalizations such as laughter, 
sobs, or sighs. In this study, 43 younger adults (M = 22 years) and 43 older 
ones (M = 61.4 years) provided multiple emotion ratings of nonverbal emotional 
vocalizations. Contrasting with previous research, which often includes only one 
positive emotion (happiness) versus several negative ones, we examined 4 
positive and 4 negative emotions: achievement/triumph, amusement, pleasure, 
relief, anger, disgust, fear, and sadness. We controlled for hearing loss and 
assessed general cognitive decline, cognitive control, verbal intelligence, 
working memory, current affect, emotion regulation, and personality. Older 
adults were less sensitive than younger ones to the intended vocal emotions, as 
indicated by decrements in ratings on the intended emotion scales and accuracy. 
These effects were similar for positive and negative emotions, and they were 
independent of age-related differences in cognitive, affective, and personality 
measures. Regression analyses revealed that younger and older participants' 
responses could be predicted from the acoustic properties of the temporal, 
intensity, fundamental frequency, and spectral profile of the vocalizations. The 
two groups were similarly efficient in using the acoustic cues, but there were 
differences in the patterns of emotion-specific predictors. This study suggests 
that ageing produces specific changes on the processing of nonverbal 
vocalizations. That decrements were not attenuated for positive emotions 
indicates that they cannot be explained by a positivity effect in older adults.

PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/a0034287
PMID: 24219391 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1393. Emotion. 2014 Feb;14(1):64-73. doi: 10.1037/a0034392. Epub 2013 Nov 11.

Emotional intelligence predicts success in medical school.

Libbrecht N(1), Lievens F(1), Carette B(1), Côté S(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Personnel Management and Work and Organizational Psychology, 
Ghent University.
(2)Joseph L. Rotman School of Management, University of Toronto.

Accumulating evidence suggests that effective communication and interpersonal 
sensitivity during interactions between doctors and patients impact therapeutic 
outcomes. There is an important need to identify predictors of these behaviors, 
because traditional tests used in medical admissions offer limited predictions 
of "bedside manners" in medical practice. This study examined whether emotional 
intelligence would predict the performance of 367 medical students in medical 
school courses on communication and interpersonal sensitivity. One of the 
dimensions of emotional intelligence, the ability to regulate emotions, 
predicted performance in courses on communication and interpersonal sensitivity 
over the next 3 years of medical school, over and above cognitive ability and 
conscientiousness. Emotional intelligence did not predict performance on courses 
on medical subject domains. The results suggest that medical schools may better 
predict who will communicate effectively and show interpersonal sensitivity if 
they include measures of emotional intelligence in their admission systems.

PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/a0034392
PMID: 24219393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1394. Dyslexia. 2014 Feb;20(1):19-37. doi: 10.1002/dys.1468. Epub 2013 Nov 12.

WISC-III cognitive profiles in children with developmental dyslexia: specific 
cognitive disability and diagnostic utility.

Moura O(1), Simões MR, Pereira M.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Psychology and Education Sciences, University of Coimbra, Coimbra, 
Portugal.

This study analysed the usefulness of the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for 
Children-Third Edition in identifying specific cognitive impairments that are 
linked to developmental dyslexia (DD) and the diagnostic utility of the most 
common profiles in a sample of 100 Portuguese children (50 dyslexic and 50 
normal readers) between the ages of 8 and 12 years. Children with DD exhibited 
significantly lower scores in the Verbal Comprehension Index (except the 
Vocabulary subtest), Freedom from Distractibility Index (FDI) and Processing 
Speed Index subtests, with larger effect sizes than normal readers in 
Information, Arithmetic and Digit Span. The Verbal-Performance IQs 
discrepancies, Bannatyne pattern and the presence of FDI; Arithmetic, Coding, 
Information and Digit Span subtests (ACID) and Symbol Search, Coding, Arithmetic 
and Digit Span subtests (SCAD) profiles (full or partial) in the lowest subtests 
revealed a low diagnostic utility. However, the receiver operating 
characteristic curve and the optimal cut-off score analyses of the composite 
ACID; FDI and SCAD profiles scores showed moderate accuracy in correctly 
discriminating dyslexic readers from normal ones. These results suggested that 
in the context of a comprehensive assessment, the Wechsler Intelligence Scale 
for Children-Third Edition provides some useful information about the presence 
of specific cognitive disabilities in DD. Practitioner Points. Children with 
developmental dyslexia revealed significant deficits in the Wechsler 
Intelligence Scale for Children-Third Edition subtests that rely on verbal 
abilities, processing speed and working memory. The composite Arithmetic, 
Coding, Information and Digit Span subtests (ACID); Freedom from Distractibility 
Index and Symbol Search, Coding, Arithmetic and Digit Span subtests (SCAD) 
profile scores showed moderate accuracy in correctly discriminating dyslexics 
from normal readers. Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children-Third Edition may 
provide some useful information about the presence of specific cognitive 
disabilities in developmental dyslexia.

Copyright © 2013 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/dys.1468
PMID: 24222530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1395. ScientificWorldJournal. 2013 Oct 3;2013:194918. doi: 10.1155/2013/194918. 
eCollection 2013.

Children with congenital hypothyroidism have similar neuroradiological abnormal 
findings as healthy ones.

Rachmiel M(1), Blaser S, Widjaja E, Rovet J.

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Endocrinology Service, Division of Pediatric, Assaf Harofeh Medical 
Center, Sackler School of Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Zerifin 70300, Israel ; 
Division of Endocrinology, The Hospital for Sick Children, 555 University 
Avenue, Toronto, ON, Canada M5G 1X8.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the neuroradiological findings of children with congenital 
hypothyroidism (CHT) compared to healthy controls (HC).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Thirty children with CHT, mean age 12.5 ± 1.6 years, 14 
(44.8%) males, were compared with 38 HC mean age 11.7 ± 1.7 years, 16 (45.7%) 
males. Clinical data were collected from medical charts and questionnaires 
seeking information on family history, birth and perinatal period events, 
medications, and overall health history. Neurocognitive function was assessed 
for global intelligence, visual and verbal memory, and executive functioning 
using standardized tests. Neuroimaging was performed using 1.5 T magnetic 
resonance imaging and assessed by two pediatric radiologists.
RESULTS: Children with CHT had a similar proportion of incidental findings as 
did the children in the HC group, at 43.3% and 39.5%, respectively, P = 0.69. 
Abnormalities of the sellar region were reported in 13.3% of CHT group and 7.9% 
of HC group, P = 0.46. Other incidental findings included cerebellar ectopia, 
choroidal fissure and pineal cysts, and multiple increased signal intensity 
foci. Neuroradiological findings were not associated with clinical and 
neurocognitive abnormalities.
CONCLUSION: Neuroimaging of children with CHT demonstrated a similar incidence 
of structural abnormalities as in the healthy population. There is no 
association between those findings and neurocognitive function.

DOI: 10.1155/2013/194918
PMCID: PMC3814050
PMID: 24222727 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1396. PLoS One. 2013 Nov 6;8(11):e73440. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0073440. 
eCollection 2013.

Social judgement in borderline personality disorder.

Nicol K(1), Pope M, Sprengelmeyer R, Young AW, Hall J.

Author information:
(1)Division of Psychiatry, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: Borderline personality disorder (BPD) is a common and serious mental 
illness, associated with a high risk of suicide and self harm. Those with a 
diagnosis of BPD often display difficulties with social interaction and struggle 
to form and maintain interpersonal relationships. Here we investigated the 
ability of participants with BPD to make social inferences from faces.
METHOD: 20 participants with BPD and 21 healthy controls were shown a series of 
faces and asked to judge these according to one of six characteristics (age, 
distinctiveness, attractiveness, intelligence, approachability, 
trustworthiness). The number and direction of errors made (compared to 
population norms) were recorded for analysis.
RESULTS: Participants with a diagnosis of BPD displayed significant impairments 
in making judgements from faces. In particular, the BPD Group judged faces as 
less approachable and less trustworthy than controls. Furthermore, within the 
BPD Group there was a correlation between scores on the Childhood Trauma 
Questionnaire (CTQ) and bias towards judging faces as unapproachable.
CONCLUSION: Individuals with a diagnosis of BPD have difficulty making 
appropriate social judgements about others from their faces. Judging more faces 
as unapproachable and untrustworthy indicates that this group may have a 
heightened sensitivity to perceiving potential threat, and this should be 
considered in clinical management and treatment.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0073440
PMCID: PMC3819347
PMID: 24223110 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


1397. J Res Pers. 2013 Aug 1;47(4):10.1016/j.jrp.2013.02.010. doi: 
10.1016/j.jrp.2013.02.010.

Identifying Early Childhood Personality Dimensions Using the California Child 
Q-Set and Prospective Associations With Behavioral and Psychosocial Development.

Wilson S(1), Schalet BD, Hicks BM, Zucker RA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Minnesota, 75 East River Rd, 
Minneapolis, MN 55455. syliaw@umn.edu.

The present study used an empirical, "bottom-up" approach to delineate the 
structure of the California Child Q-Set (CCQ), a comprehensive set of 
personality descriptors, in a sample of 373 preschool-aged children. This 
approach yielded two broad trait dimensions, Adaptive Socialization (emotional 
stability, compliance, intelligence) and Anxious Inhibition 
(emotional/behavioral introversion). Results demonstrate the value of using 
empirical derivation to investigate the structure of personality in young 
children, speak to the importance of early-evident personality traits for 
adaptive development, and are consistent with a growing body of evidence 
indicating that personality structure in young children is similar, but not 
identical to, that in adults, suggesting a model of broad personality dimensions 
in childhood that evolve into narrower traits in adulthood.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jrp.2013.02.010
PMCID: PMC3819425
PMID: 24223448


1398. Front Neuroinform. 2013 Nov 7;7:25. doi: 10.3389/fninf.2013.00025. eCollection 
2013.

Northwestern University Schizophrenia Data and Software Tool (NUSDAST).

Wang L(1), Kogan A, Cobia D, Alpert K, Kolasny A, Miller MI, Marcus D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine 
Chicago, IL, USA ; Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, 
Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine Chicago, IL, USA.

The schizophrenia research community has invested substantial resources on 
collecting, managing and sharing large neuroimaging datasets. As part of this 
effort, our group has collected high resolution magnetic resonance (MR) datasets 
from individuals with schizophrenia, their non-psychotic siblings, healthy 
controls and their siblings. This effort has resulted in a growing resource, the 
Northwestern University Schizophrenia Data and Software Tool (NUSDAST), an 
NIH-funded data sharing project to stimulate new research. This resource resides 
on XNAT Central, and it contains neuroimaging (MR scans, landmarks and surface 
maps for deep subcortical structures, and FreeSurfer cortical parcellation and 
measurement data), cognitive (cognitive domain scores for crystallized 
intelligence, working memory, episodic memory, and executive function), clinical 
(demographic, sibling relationship, SAPS and SANS psychopathology), and genetic 
(20 polymorphisms) data, collected from more than 450 subjects, most with 2-year 
longitudinal follow-up. A neuroimaging mapping, analysis and visualization 
software tool, CAWorks, is also part of this resource. Moreover, in making our 
existing neuroimaging data along with the associated meta-data and computational 
tools publically accessible, we have established a web-based information 
retrieval portal that allows the user to efficiently search the collection. This 
research-ready dataset meaningfully combines neuroimaging data with other 
relevant information, and it can be used to help facilitate advancing 
neuroimaging research. It is our hope that this effort will help to overcome 
some of the commonly recognized technical barriers in advancing neuroimaging 
research such as lack of local organization and standard descriptions.

DOI: 10.3389/fninf.2013.00025
PMCID: PMC3819522
PMID: 24223551


1399. Orphanet J Rare Dis. 2013 Nov 13;8:176. doi: 10.1186/1750-1172-8-176.

Encephalopathy in children with Dravet syndrome is not a pure consequence of 
epilepsy.

Nabbout R(1), Chemaly N, Chipaux M, Barcia G, Bouis C, Dubouch C, Leunen D, 
Jambaqué I, Dulac O, Dellatolas G, Chiron C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Neurology, Centre de Reference Epilepsies Rares, 
Hôpital Necker Enfants Malades APHP, Paris, France. rimanabbout@yahoo.com.

BACKGROUND: Dravet syndrome (DS) is currently considered as an epileptic 
encephalopathy, a condition in which epilepsy causes deterioration or 
developmental delay but preliminary data suggested that cognitive course may 
worsen independently from epilepsy. Our objective was to prospectively analyze 
the neuropsychological features in a large cohort of DS patients and its 
relationships with epilepsy and SCN1A mutation.
METHODS: 81 examinations were performed in 67 patients with typical DS (9m-24y, 
15 longitudinally studied) using Brunet-Lezine (developmental/intelligence 
quotient [DQ/IQ] and DQ sub-scores), Achenbach, Conners, and a semi-quantitative 
psychomotor score (SQPS). We studied the correlation between DQ/IQ/SQPS and age, 
epilepsy characteristics, and whether patients presented SCN1A mutation.
RESULTS: DQ/IQ significantly decreased with age (r = -.53, p < .001), from 
normal before 2y (mean 80, range 64-105) to low after 3y (mean 48, range 30-69), 
with hyperactivity and attention disorders hampering learning abilities 
especially up to 6y. However, raw (not age-adjusted) DQ sub-scores increased 
with age during the first decade, showing that there is no regression. We did 
not find any significant correlation between DQ/IQ at last evaluation and 
epilepsy data, i.e. first seizure (age, type, duration, fever), seizures during 
the course (type, fever sensitivity), status epilepticus (age of onset, number, 
fever), photosensitivity, and treatment, except for myoclonus and focal seizures 
which were associated with a lower QD/IQ after 3y. SCN1A mutated patients (n = 
58) seemed to exhibit worse psychomotor course than non-mutated ones (n = 9) 
(severe SQPS in 26% vs 0%), although their epilepsy tended to be less severe 
(tonic seizures in 12% vs 44% [p = 0.04], first status epilepticus before 6 m in 
26% vs 67% [p = .02], mean number of SE 2.5 vs 4.5 [p = .09]). DQ sub-scores 
were dissociated throughout the whole course: from onset hand-eye coordination 
was significantly lower than language, posture and sociability (p < .01). 
Dissociation seemed to be more frequent in mutated than in non-mutated patients 
(motor SQPS was normal for in 77% vs 44% [p = 0.017] whereas language SQPS was 
normal for 47% vs 100%).
CONCLUSIONS: Although psychomotor/cognitive delay declines with age, there is no 
regression. In addition, encephalopathy is not a pure consequence of epilepsy 
but SCN1A mutation seems to play an additional, direct role.

DOI: 10.1186/1750-1172-8-176
PMCID: PMC4225757
PMID: 24225340 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1400. Nurse Educ Today. 2014 Jun;34(6):934-9. doi: 10.1016/j.nedt.2013.10.012. Epub 
2013 Oct 28.

Conflict management styles, emotional intelligence and implicit theories of 
personality of nursing students: a cross-sectional study.

Chan JC(1), Sit EN(2), Lau WM(2).

Author information:
(1)The Nethersole School of Nursing, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, 
Shatin, The New Territories, Hong Kong. Electronic address: 
chanchungyan@cuhk.edu.hk.
(2)The Nethersole School of Nursing, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, 
Shatin, The New Territories, Hong Kong.

BACKGROUND: Conflict management is an essential skill that nursing students need 
to master as conflict is unavoidable in clinical settings. Examining nursing 
students' conflict management styles and the associating factors can inform 
nurse educators on how to equip nursing students for effective conflict 
management.
OBJECTIVES: This study aimed at examining undergraduate nursing students 
conflict management styles in managing conflict with their supervisors in 
clinical placement. The associations of emotional intelligence and implicit 
theories of personality with conflict management styles were also investigated.
DESIGN: This is a cross-sectional quantitative survey.
SETTING: This study took place at a nursing school at a university in Hong Kong.
PARTICIPANTS: 568 undergraduate nursing students participated in the study.
METHODS: Students completed a questionnaire which consisted of demographics, 
Measure of Implicit Theories of Personality, The Schutte Emotional Intelligence 
Scale (SEIS) and The Rahim Organizational Conflict Inventory-II (ROCI-II) and 
received a HKD 20 book coupon as compensation. The data were analyzed by 
descriptive statistics, reliability analyses, t-tests, correlational and linear 
regression analyses.
RESULTS: For managing conflict with clinical supervisors, students used obliging 
and integrating most frequently whereas used dominating least. Emotional 
intelligence was a significant predictor of all five conflict management styles. 
The higher the emotional intelligence, the more students used integrating, 
obliging, compromising and dominating. The lower the emotional intelligence, the 
more students used avoiding. There was a significant association between 
implicit theories of personality and compromising. The less malleable students 
perceived personality to be, the more they used compromising.
CONCLUSIONS: Emotional intelligence was significantly associated with all five 
conflict management styles while implicit theories of personality were 
significantly associated with compromising style only. Efforts of nurse 
educators to enhance students' conflict management skills and emotional 
intelligence to face conflicts in clinical settings are discussed.

© 2013.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nedt.2013.10.012
PMID: 24225346 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1401. Soins Pediatr Pueric. 2013 Sep-Oct;(274):43-6.

[Intuition in pediatric care].

[Article in French]

Loizeau V(1), Trophardy C.

Author information:
(1)CH Poissy Saint-Germain, site de Poissy, 10 rue du Champ-Gaillard, 78300 
Poissy, France. vloizeau@chipoissy-st-germain.fr

Caregiver intuition acquired through experience can be considered a form of 
intelligence in action. It is used in both reflection and field learning and can 
be mobilised as part of any nurse's clinical context. Transferring knowledge to 
young professionals should therefore include intuition to help them adapt to 
each care situation, especially in paediatrics.

PMID: 24228338 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1402. BMC Med. 2013 Nov 14;11:242. doi: 10.1186/1741-7015-11-242.

The Academic Backbone: longitudinal continuities in educational achievement from 
secondary school and medical school to MRCP(UK) and the specialist register in 
UK medical students and doctors.

McManus IC(1), Woolf K, Dacre J, Paice E, Dewberry C.

Author information:
(1)UCL Medical School, University College London, Gower Street, London WC1E 6BT, 
UK. i.mcmanus@ucl.ac.uk.

Comment in
    BMC Med. 2013;11:245.

BACKGROUND: Selection of medical students in the UK is still largely based on 
prior academic achievement, although doubts have been expressed as to whether 
performance in earlier life is predictive of outcomes later in medical school or 
post-graduate education. This study analyses data from five longitudinal studies 
of UK medical students and doctors from the early 1970s until the early 2000s. 
Two of the studies used the AH5, a group test of general intelligence (that is, 
intellectual aptitude). Sex and ethnic differences were also analyzed in light 
of the changing demographics of medical students over the past decades.
METHODS: Data from five cohort studies were available: the Westminster Study 
(began clinical studies from 1975 to 1982), the 1980, 1985, and 1990 cohort 
studies (entered medical school in 1981, 1986, and 1991), and the University 
College London Medical School (UCLMS) Cohort Study (entered clinical studies in 
2005 and 2006). Different studies had different outcome measures, but most had 
performance on basic medical sciences and clinical examinations at medical 
school, performance in Membership of the Royal Colleges of Physicians (MRCP(UK)) 
examinations, and being on the General Medical Council Specialist Register.
RESULTS: Correlation matrices and path analyses are presented. There were robust 
correlations across different years at medical school, and medical school 
performance also predicted MRCP(UK) performance and being on the GMC Specialist 
Register. A-levels correlated somewhat less with undergraduate and post-graduate 
performance, but there was restriction of range in entrants. General Certificate 
of Secondary Education (GCSE)/O-level results also predicted undergraduate and 
post-graduate outcomes, but less so than did A-level results, but there may be 
incremental validity for clinical and post-graduate performance. The AH5 had 
some significant correlations with outcome, but they were inconsistent. Sex and 
ethnicity also had predictive effects on measures of educational attainment, 
undergraduate, and post-graduate performance. Women performed better in 
assessments but were less likely to be on the Specialist Register. Non-white 
participants generally underperformed in undergraduate and post-graduate 
assessments, but were equally likely to be on the Specialist Register. There was 
a suggestion of smaller ethnicity effects in earlier studies.
CONCLUSIONS: The existence of the Academic Backbone concept is strongly 
supported, with attainment at secondary school predicting performance in 
undergraduate and post-graduate medical assessments, and the effects spanning 
many years. The Academic Backbone is conceptualized in terms of the development 
of more sophisticated underlying structures of knowledge ('cognitive capital' 
and 'medical capital'). The Academic Backbone provides strong support for using 
measures of educational attainment, particularly A-levels, in student selection.

DOI: 10.1186/1741-7015-11-242
PMCID: PMC3827330
PMID: 24229333 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1403. J Clin Neurosci. 2014 Mar;21(3):445-50. doi: 10.1016/j.jocn.2013.06.005. Epub 
2013 Nov 11.

Cognitive predictors of cognitive change following bilateral subthalamic nucleus 
deep brain stimulation in Parkinson's disease.

Yágüez L(1), Costello A(2), Moriarty J(3), Hulse N(4), Selway R(4), Clough C(5), 
Samuel M(6), Ashkan K(7).

Author information:
(1)King's College London, Department of Psychology PO77, Institute of 
Psychiatry, De Crespigny Park, London SE5 8AF, UK; King's Health Partners, 
London, UK. Electronic address: Lidia.yaguez@kcl.ac.uk.
(2)Neuropsychology Department, King's College Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, 
London, UK; King's Health Partners, London, UK.
(3)Department of Psychological Medicine, South London and Maudsley Foundation 
Trust, London, UK; King's Health Partners, London, UK.
(4)Department of Neurosurgery, King's College Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, 
London, UK; King's Health Partners, London, UK.
(5)Department of Neurology, King's College Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, 
London, UK; King's Health Partners, London, UK.
(6)Department of Neurology, King's College Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, 
London, UK; East Kent Hospitals NHS University Foundation Trust, UK; King's 
Health Partners, London, UK.
(7)Department of Neurosurgery, King's College Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, 
London, UK; King's College London, Department of Clinical Neurosciences, 
Institute of Psychiatry, London, UK; King's Health Partners, London, UK.

The beneficial effects of deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the subthalamic 
nucleus (STN) for the motor symptoms in advanced Parkinson's disease (PD) are 
well established. Early in PD, mild cognitive impairment is present in a 
proportion of patients. Hence, it can also be present in PD patients considered 
for DBS. The potential impact of even a modest decline post-surgically is a 
concern because it could result in impaired cognitive function. Therefore, 
attempts to determine which pre-operative cognitive measures predict 
post-operative cognitive change warrant further attention. We report our 
findings in a cohort of 30 routinely operated non-demented patients who 
underwent detailed neuropsychological assessments on average 7.1 months before 
and 9.4 months after STN DBS. We report the individual and group differences 
pre- and post-DBS. Stepwise regression analysis was used to analyse the best 
cognitive predictors of post-operative cognitive changes. We describe our data 
in relation to published normative data. Post-STN DBS, the immediate story 
recall component of verbal memory was the most affected cognitive function 
showing a significant decline in its group mean with a large effect size. The 
best predictors for this change were pre-surgical list learning and Full Scale 
Intelligence Quotient. These results suggest that non-demented patients, with 
even mild impairments in both general intellectual functions and list learning, 
may be at greater risk of decline in other aspects of verbal memory after STN 
DBS. Pre-existing mild executive dysfunction was not influenced 
post-operatively. These findings may help selection and consent for STN DBS.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jocn.2013.06.005
PMID: 24231557 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1404. Otol Neurotol. 2013 Dec;34(9):1703-10. doi: 10.1097/MAO.0000000000000190.

Do audiologic characteristics predict outcomes in children with unilateral 
hearing loss?

Lieu JE(1), Karzon RK, Ead B, Tye-Murray N.

Author information:
(1)*Department of Otolaryngology - Head and Neck Surgery, Washington University 
School of Medicine; and †St. Louis Children's Hospital, St. Louis, Missouri, 
U.S.A.

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether audiologic characteristics of unilateral hearing 
loss in children were associated with language, cognitive, or achievement 
scores.
STUDY DESIGN: Case-control study
SETTING: Pediatric otolaryngology ambulatory practice
PATIENTS: Cases (n = 109) were children aged 6 to 12 years with permanent 
unilateral hearing loss; controls (n = 95) were siblings with normal bilateral 
hearing.
INTERVENTIONS: Audiologic characteristics measured included side and severity of 
hearing loss and word recognition scores in quiet and in noise.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Cognitive abilities were measured using the Wechsler 
Abbreviated Scale of Intelligence; reading, math, and writing achievement was 
measured with the Wechsler Individual Achievement Test - Second Edition - 
Abbreviated; and oral language skills were measured with the Oral Written and 
Language Scales.
RESULTS: Children with unilateral hearing loss had worse verbal cognitive and 
oral language scores than children with normal hearing, but there were no 
differences in achievement scores. Children with profound unilateral hearing 
loss tended to have worse cognitive scores and had significantly lower oral 
language scores. Higher word recognition scores of the normal hearing ear in 
quiet were associated with higher cognitive, oral language, and reading 
achievement scores. Higher word recognition scores in noise were slightly 
correlated with higher oral language scores.
CONCLUSION: As expected, children with unilateral hearing loss had worse 
language scores than their siblings with normal hearing, with trends toward 
worse cognitive scores. Children with profound unilateral hearing loss tended to 
have worse outcomes than children with normal hearing or less severe unilateral 
loss. However, there were no differences in outcomes between children with right 
or left unilateral hearing loss.

DOI: 10.1097/MAO.0000000000000190
PMCID: PMC3903422
PMID: 24232067 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1405. World J Pediatr. 2013 Nov;9(4):312-7. doi: 10.1007/s12519-013-0441-1. Epub 2013 
Nov 14.

Psychological, cognitive and maternal stress assessment in children with primary 
ciliary dyskinesia.

Carotenuto M(1), Esposito M, Di Pasquale F, De Stefano S, Santamaria F.

Author information:
(1)Clinic, Department of Mental and Physical Health, and Preventive Medicine, 
Second University of Naples, Naples, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Primary ciliary dyskinesia (PCD) is a rare disorder due to structure 
and functional abnormalities of respiratory cilia. There are no reports on the 
behavioral and psychological aspects of children and adolescents with PCD. This 
study was undertaken to assess the cognitive and behavioural characteristics, 
and the parental stress of a population of school-aged children with PCD.
METHODS: Ten PCD and 34 healthy school-aged children underwent Wechsler 
Intelligence Scale for Children-III edition, Child Behavior Check-List 
questionnaire (CBCL), Parenting Stress Index-Short Form tests in order to 
perform a behavioural and psychological evaluation.
RESULTS: PCD children showed significant behavioral and social competent 
problems in CBCL scale than control children, in particular with regard to 
internalizing problems score (P<0.001). Parental distress, parent-child 
interaction and total stress in the mothers of PCD patients were higher than 
those in the controls' parents (P<0.001).
CONCLUSION: Our findings pinpoint the importance of specific psychological 
support in the clinical management of children with PCD.

DOI: 10.1007/s12519-013-0441-1
PMID: 24235065 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1406. PLoS One. 2013 Nov 13;8(11):e78311. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0078311. 
eCollection 2013.

Meta-analysis of fluid intelligence tests of children from the Chinese mainland 
with learning difficulties.

Tong F(1), Fu T.

Author information:
(1)Capital Institute of Pediatrics, Beijing, P. R. China.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the differences in fluid intelligence tests between 
normal children and children with learning difficulties in China.
METHOD: PubMed, MD Consult, and other Chinese Journal Database were searched 
from their establishment to November 2012. After finding comparative studies of 
Raven measurements of normal children and children with learning difficulties, 
full Intelligent Quotation (FIQ) values and the original values of the 
sub-measurement were extracted. The corresponding effect model was selected 
based on the results of heterogeneity and parallel sub-group analysis was 
performed.
RESULTS: Twelve documents were included in the meta-analysis, and the studies 
were all performed in mainland of China. Among these, two studies were performed 
at child health clinics, the other ten sites were schools and control children 
were schoolmates or classmates. FIQ was evaluated using a random effects model. 
WMD was -13.18 (95% CI: -16.50- -9.85). Children with learning difficulties 
showed significantly lower FIQ scores than controls (P<0.00001); Type of 
learning difficulty and gender differences were evaluated using a fixed-effects 
model (I² = 0%). The sites and purposes of the studies evaluated here were taken 
into account, but the reasons of heterogeneity could not be eliminated; The sum 
IQ of all the subgroups showed considerable heterogeneity (I² = 76.5%). The 
sub-measurement score of document A showed moderate heterogeneity among all 
documents, and AB, B, and E showed considerable heterogeneity, which was used in 
a random effect model. Individuals with learning difficulties showed 
heterogeneity as well. There was a moderate delay in the first three items (-0.5 
to -0.9), and a much more pronounced delay in the latter three items (-1.4 to 
-1.6).
CONCLUSION: In the Chinese mainland, the level of fluid intelligence of children 
with learning difficulties was lower than that of normal children. Delayed 
development in sub-items of C, D, and E was more obvious.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0078311
PMCID: PMC3827259
PMID: 24236016 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


1407. PLoS One. 2013 Nov 13;8(11):e78838. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0078838. 
eCollection 2013.

Correlates of adult binge drinking: evidence from a British cohort.

Cheng H(1), Furnham A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University College London, London, United Kingdom.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate whether parental social class and cognitive ability in 
childhood, as well as social and psychological factors, particularly personality 
traits, are independently associated with binge drinking in 50 year old adults 
assessed in a longitudinal birth cohort study.
METHOD: 17,415 babies born in Great Britain in 1958 and followed up at 11, 33, 
and 50 years of age. Their binge drinking alcohol abuse at aged 50 was the 
outcome measure.
RESULTS: 6,478 participants with data on parental social class, childhood 
cognitive ability, educational qualifications at age 33, personality traits, 
psychological distress, occupational levels, and alcohol consumption (all 
measured at age 50) were included in the study. Using logistic regression 
analyses, results showed that parental social class, childhood intelligence, 
educational qualifications, occupational levels, personality traits 
(Extraversion and Disagreeableness), as well as psychological distress, were all 
significantly and independently associated with adult excessive alcohol use. Men 
tended to binge drink more than women (22% in men and 9.8% in women).
CONCLUSION: Both social and psychological factors influence adult excessive 
alcohol consumption. Personality traits play a more important role than 
previously understood. There appears to be a distinction between the frequency 
and dose level of alcohol consumption.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0078838
PMCID: PMC3827253
PMID: 24236057 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


1408. PLoS One. 2013 Nov 13;8(11):e79138. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0079138. 
eCollection 2013.

On the relationships between generative encodings, regularity, and learning 
abilities when evolving plastic artificial neural networks.

Tonelli P(1), Mouret JB.

Author information:
(1)ISIR, Université Pierre et Marie Curie-Paris 6, CNRS UMR 7222, Paris, France.

A major goal of bio-inspired artificial intelligence is to design artificial 
neural networks with abilities that resemble those of animal nervous systems. It 
is commonly believed that two keys for evolving nature-like artificial neural 
networks are (1) the developmental process that links genes to nervous systems, 
which enables the evolution of large, regular neural networks, and (2) synaptic 
plasticity, which allows neural networks to change during their lifetime. So 
far, these two topics have been mainly studied separately. The present paper 
shows that they are actually deeply connected. Using a simple operant 
conditioning task and a classic evolutionary algorithm, we compare three ways to 
encode plastic neural networks: a direct encoding, a developmental encoding 
inspired by computational neuroscience models, and a developmental encoding 
inspired by morphogen gradients (similar to HyperNEAT). Our results suggest that 
using a developmental encoding could improve the learning abilities of evolved, 
plastic neural networks. Complementary experiments reveal that this result is 
likely the consequence of the bias of developmental encodings towards regular 
structures: (1) in our experimental setup, encodings that tend to produce more 
regular networks yield networks with better general learning abilities; (2) 
whatever the encoding is, networks that are the more regular are statistically 
those that have the best learning abilities.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0079138
PMCID: PMC3827315
PMID: 24236099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


1409. PLoS One. 2013 Nov 13;8(11):e79200. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0079200. 
eCollection 2013.

Predictors of intelligence at the age of 5: family, pregnancy and birth 
characteristics, postnatal influences, and postnatal growth.

Eriksen HL(1), Kesmodel US, Underbjerg M, Kilburn TR, Bertrand J, Mortensen EL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Section of Epidemiology, Aarhus University, 
Aarhus, Denmark.

Parental education and maternal intelligence are well-known predictors of child 
IQ. However, the literature regarding other factors that may contribute to 
individual differences in IQ is inconclusive. The aim of this study was to 
examine the contribution of a number of variables whose predictive status remain 
unclarified, in a sample of basically healthy children with a low rate of pre- 
and postnatal complications. 1,782 5-year-old children sampled from the Danish 
National Birth Cohort (2003-2007) were assessed with a short form of the 
Wechsler Preschool and Primary Scale of Intelligence - Revised. Information on 
parental characteristics, pregnancy and birth factors, postnatal influences, and 
postnatal growth was collected during pregnancy and at follow-up. A model 
including study design variables and child's sex explained 7% of the variance in 
IQ, while parental education and maternal IQ increased the explained variance to 
24%. Other predictors were parity, maternal BMI, birth weight, breastfeeding, 
and the child's head circumference and height at follow-up. These variables, 
however, only increased the explained variance to 29%. The results suggest that 
parental education and maternal IQ are major predictors of IQ and should be 
included routinely in studies of cognitive development. Obstetrical and 
postnatal factors also predict IQ, but their contribution may be of 
comparatively limited magnitude.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0079200
PMCID: PMC3827334
PMID: 24236109 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


1410. J Clin Exp Neuropsychol. 2013;35(10):1048-59. doi: 10.1080/13803395.2013.854319. 
Epub 2013 Nov 18.

A neuropsychological investigation of the Delis-Kaplan Executive Function 
System.

Keifer E(1), Tranel D.

Author information:
(1)a Neurobehavioral Associates , Orland Park , IL , USA.

Despite a strong historical association between frontal lobe lesions and 
executive dysfunction, questions remain regarding the neuropsychological 
characterization of specific regions within the prefrontal cortex, as well as 
the utility of some executive function measures. The Delis-Kaplan Executive 
Function System (D-KEFS; Delis, Kaplan, & Kramer, 2001) has gained popularity as 
a collection of executive function tests, but its sensitivity and specificity 
for detecting focal frontal lobe dysfunction remain uncertain. The current study 
investigated performances of patients with focal ventromedial prefrontal cortex 
(vmPFC, n = 13), dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (dlPFC, n = 14), and nonfrontal 
(NF, n = 18) lesions on the entire D-KEFS battery. We also obtained IQ data from 
conventional measures (the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Third Edition and 
Fourth Edition, WAIS-III/IV). On six D-KEFS indices, patients with dlPFC lesions 
performed lower than patients with vmPFC and NF lesions. On three other indices, 
the performances of the dlPFC group were lower than those of the NF group, but 
did not differ from those of the vmPFC group. However, none of these 
between-group differences were statistically significant after full-scale IQ and 
processing speed were controlled for, suggesting that the observed weaknesses in 
patients with dlPFC lesions were not specific to executive functions. Patients 
with vmPFC and NF lesions could not be differentiated based on their 
performances on any D-KEFS measures. While some D-KEFS measures show promise in 
differentiating patients with dlPFC lesions, the clinical advantage of using the 
D-KEFS over more traditional measures is not empirically compelling.

DOI: 10.1080/13803395.2013.854319
PMCID: PMC4304768
PMID: 24236952 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1411. Ital J Pediatr. 2013 Nov 15;39:74. doi: 10.1186/1824-7288-39-74.

Good cognitive performances in a child with Prader-Willi syndrome.

Nugnes R(1), Zito E, Mozzillo E, Camarca ME, Riccio MP, Terrone G, Melis D, 
Bravaccio C, Franzese A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Translational Medical Sciences, Federico II University of 
Naples, Italy, Via Pansini, 5-80131 Naples, Italy. rosanugnes@gmail.com.

We report the case of a child affected by Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) with good 
cognitive performances and without relevant behavioral abnormalities.The 
diagnosis of PWS, suspected on the basis of clinical features and past history, 
was confirmed by DNA methylation analysis. Additional genetic testing revealed a 
maternal uniparental disomy. Intellectual profile was analyzed by WISC-III and 
Raven's Progressive Matrices CPM, while the behavior was evaluated by K-SADS-PL 
and Child Behavior Checklist/4-18 to the parents.WISC-III test showed a Total 
Intelligence Quotient (T-IQ = 79) at the border level for age. The Verbal 
Intelligence Quotient (V-IQ) showed a lower score than the Performance 
Intelligence Quotient (P-IQ) (78 and 85, respectively). Raven's Matrices CPM 
showed an intelligence level at 75-90° percentile for age. Concerning behavioral 
evaluation, a difficulty in impulse control was observed, with persistent but 
controllable search for food, without a clear psychopathological meaning. Also 
according to K-SADS-PL no areas of psychopathological dimensions were detected. 
In conclusion, in presence of consisting clinical features of PWS and high 
diagnostic suspicion, the diagnosis of PWS should be considered even in presence 
of a borderline IQ and in absence of psychopathological abnormalities.

DOI: 10.1186/1824-7288-39-74
PMCID: PMC3832878
PMID: 24238393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1412. Chin Med J (Engl). 2013 Nov;126(22):4306-11.

Eye-movement study during visual search in Chinese children with developmental 
dyslexia.

Li XH(1), Jing J, Yang DS, Wang H, Wang QX, Song SS, Fan F.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Maternal and Child Health, Preventive Medicine Institute, School 
of Public Health, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, Guangdong 510080, China.

BACKGROUND: Developmental dyslexia (DD) is a disorder in which children with 
normal intelligence and sensory abilities show learning deficits in reading. 
Abnormal eye movements have been found in DD. However, eye-movement 
abnormalities during visual search among Chinese children with DD remain 
unknown. We aimed to identify the eyemovement characteristics and search 
efficiency of Chinese children with DD during visual search for targets of 
different conceptual categories, under same-category conditions.
METHODS: We compared 32 Chinese dyslexic children and 39 non-dyslexic children 
in visual search tasks, which were assessed using EyeLink II High-Speed Eye 
Tracker (SR Research Ltd., Canada). Letters, single Chinese characters, digits, 
Chinese phrases, figures and facial expressions were used as stimuli. Targets 
were similar to distractors in meaning, phonology and/or shape.
RESULTS: A main effect of task on visual search scores and all eye-movement 
parameters were found. Search scores, average saccade amplitude and saccade 
distance were significantly smaller in the DD group than in the controls. An 
interaction between group and task was found for pupil diameter.
CONCLUSIONS: Unlike normal readers, children with DD had a reduction in the 
visual attention span and search accuracy. Besides, children with DD could not 
increase their mental workload with increase in task difficulty. The conceptual 
category of the stimulus materials significantly impacts search speed, accuracy 
and eye-movement parameters.

PMID: 24238519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1413. Appl Ergon. 2014 Sep;45(5):1343-52. doi: 10.1016/j.apergo.2013.08.011. Epub 2013 
Nov 12.

Coding warnings without interfering with dismounted soldiers' missions.

Oron-Gilad T(1), Hancock PA(2), Helmick-Rich J(2).

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Industrial Engineering and Management, Ben-Gurion University of the 
Negev, P.O. Box 653, Beer-Sheva 84105, Israel. Electronic address: 
orontal@bgu.ac.il.
(2)Department of Psychology, University of Central Florida, USA.

OBJECTIVES: Warnings are an effective way to communicate hazard, yet they can 
also increase task demand when presented to operators involved in real-world 
tasks. Furthermore, in military-related tasks warnings are often given in codes 
to avoid counter-intelligence, which may foster additional working memory load.
BACKGROUND: Adherence to warnings in the military domain is crucial to promote 
safety and reduce accidents and injuries. The empirical question arises as to 
how aspects of coding the warning may interfere with the primary task the 
individual is currently performing and vice versa.
METHOD: Six experimental conditions were designed to assess how warning-code 
storage format, response format, and increasing working memory demand 
(retention) affected both performance on the primary task and the rate of 
compliance to warnings, considered here as the secondary task.
RESULTS: Results revealed that the combination of warning-code storage and 
response format affected compliance rate and the highest compliance occurred 
when warnings were presented as pictorials and responses were coded verbally. 
Contrary to the proposed hypotheses, warning storage format did not affect 
performance on the primary task, which was only affected by the level of working 
memory demand. Thus, the intra-modal warning storages did not interfere with the 
visual/spatial nature of the primary operational task. However, increase in 
working memory demand, by increasing the number of memorized warning codes, had 
an effect on both compliance rate and primary task performance.
CONCLUSIONS: Rather than warning code storage alone, it is the coupling of 
warning storage and response format that has the most significant effect on 
compliance.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd and The Ergonomics Society. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.apergo.2013.08.011
PMID: 24238638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1414. J Pediatr. 2014 Feb;164(2):398-401. doi: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2013.10.001. Epub 2013 
Nov 14.

Impaired cognitive functioning in patients with tyrosinemia type I receiving 
nitisinone.

Bendadi F(1), de Koning TJ(1), Visser G(1), Prinsen HC(2), de Sain MG(2), 
Verhoeven-Duif N(2), Sinnema G(3), van Spronsen FJ(4), van Hasselt PM(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Metabolic Diseases, University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, 
The Netherlands.
(2)Department of Medical Genetics, Section Metabolic Diagnostics, University 
Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Pediatric Psychology, University Medical Center Utrecht, 
Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(4)Division of Metabolic Diseases, Beatrix Children's Hospital, University 
Medical Center of Groningen, University of Groningen, Groningen, The 
Netherlands.
(5)Department of Metabolic Diseases, University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, 
The Netherlands. Electronic address: p.vanhasselt@umcutrecht.nl.

OBJECTIVE: To examine cognitive functioning in patients with tyrosinemia type I 
treated with nitisinone and a protein-restricted diet.
STUDY DESIGN: We performed a cross-sectional study to establish cognitive 
functioning in children with tyrosinemia type I compared with their unaffected 
siblings. Intelligence was measured using age-appropriate Wechsler Scales. To 
assess cognitive development over time, we retrieved sequential IQ scores in a 
single-center subset of patients. We also evaluated whether plasma phenylalanine 
and tyrosine levels during treatment was correlated with cognitive development.
RESULTS: Average total IQ score in 10 patients with tyrosinemia type I receiving 
nitisinone was significantly lower compared with their unaffected siblings (71 ± 
13 vs 91 ± 13; P = .008). Both verbal and performance IQ subscores differed (77 
± 14 vs 95 ± 11; P < .05 and 70 ± 11 vs 87 ± 15; P < .05, respectively). 
Repeated IQ measurements in a single-center subset of 5 patients revealed a 
decline in average IQ score over time, from 96 ± 15 to 69 ± 11 (P < .001). No 
significant association was found between IQ score and either plasma tyrosine or 
phenylalanine concentration.
CONCLUSION: Patients with tyrosinemia type I treated with nitisinone are at risk 
for impaired cognitive function despite a protein-restricted diet.

Copyright © 2014 Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2013.10.001
PMID: 24238861 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1415. Phytochemistry. 2014 Jan;97:62-9. doi: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2013.10.010. Epub 
2013 Nov 14.

Classification of stilbenoid compounds by entropy of artificial intelligence.

Castellano G(1), Lara A(2), Torrens F(3).

Author information:
(1)Universidad Católica de Valencia San Vicente Mártir, Guillem de Castro-94, 
E-46001 Valencia, Spain. Electronic address: gloria.castellano@ucv.es.
(2)Universidad Católica de Valencia San Vicente Mártir, Guillem de Castro-94, 
E-46001 Valencia, Spain.
(3)Institut Universitari de Ciéncia Molecular, Universitat de València, Edifici 
d'Instituts de Paterna, P.O. Box 22085, E-46071 València, Spain.

A set of 66 stilbenoid compounds is classified into a system of periodic 
properties by using a procedure based on artificial intelligence, information 
entropy theory. Eight characteristics in hierarchical order are used to classify 
structurally the stilbenoids. The former five features mark the group or column 
while the latter three are used to indicate the row or period in the table of 
periodic classification. Those stilbenoids in the same group are suggested to 
present similar properties. Furthermore, compounds also in the same period will 
show maximum resemblance. In this report, the stilbenoids in the table are 
related to experimental data of bioactivity and antioxidant properties available 
in the technical literature. It should be noted that stilbenoids with glycoxyl 
groups esterified with benzoic acid derivatives, in the group g11000 in the 
extreme right of the periodic table, show the greatest antioxidant activity as 
confirmed by experiments in the bibliography. Moreover, the second group from 
the right (g10111) contains E-piceatannol, which antioxidant activity is 
recognized in the literature. The experiments confirm our results of the 
periodic classification.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2013.10.010
PMID: 24239224 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1416. Neural Netw. 2014 Feb;50:12-32. doi: 10.1016/j.neunet.2013.10.005. Epub 2013 Nov 
5.

Hybrid fault diagnosis of nonlinear systems using neural parameter estimators.

Sobhani-Tehrani E(1), Talebi HA(2), Khorasani K(3).

Author information:
(1)Globvision, Inc, Canada.
(2)Department of Electrical Engineering, Amirkabir University of Technology, 
Tehran, Iran.
(3)Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering, Concordia University, 
Montreal, Quebec, H3G 1M8, Canada. Electronic address: kash@ece.concordia.ca.

This paper presents a novel integrated hybrid approach for fault diagnosis (FD) 
of nonlinear systems taking advantage of both the system's mathematical model 
and the adaptive nonlinear approximation capability of computational 
intelligence techniques. Unlike most FD techniques, the proposed solution 
simultaneously accomplishes fault detection, isolation, and identification 
(FDII) within a unified diagnostic module. At the core of this solution is a 
bank of adaptive neural parameter estimators (NPEs) associated with a set of 
single-parameter fault models. The NPEs continuously estimate unknown fault 
parameters (FPs) that are indicators of faults in the system. Two NPE 
structures, series-parallel and parallel, are developed with their exclusive set 
of desirable attributes. The parallel scheme is extremely robust to measurement 
noise and possesses a simpler, yet more solid, fault isolation logic. In 
contrast, the series-parallel scheme displays short FD delays and is robust to 
closed-loop system transients due to changes in control commands. Finally, a 
fault tolerant observer (FTO) is designed to extend the capability of the two 
NPEs that originally assumes full state measurements for systems that have only 
partial state measurements. The proposed FTO is a neural state estimator that 
can estimate unmeasured states even in the presence of faults. The estimated and 
the measured states then comprise the inputs to the two proposed FDII schemes. 
Simulation results for FDII of reaction wheels of a three-axis stabilized 
satellite in the presence of disturbances and noise demonstrate the 
effectiveness of the proposed FDII solutions under partial state measurements.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neunet.2013.10.005
PMID: 24239987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1417. BMC Pediatr. 2013 Nov 19;13:189. doi: 10.1186/1471-2431-13-189.

Determinants of academic performance in children with sickle cell anaemia.

Ezenwosu OU(1), Emodi IJ, Ikefuna AN, Chukwu BF, Osuorah CD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics, University of Nigeria Teaching Hospital, Enugu, 
Nigeria. docsita31@yahoo.com.

BACKGROUND: Some factors are known to influence the academic performance of 
children with Sickle Cell Anaemia (SCA). Information on their effects in these 
children is limited in Nigeria. The factors which influence academic performance 
of children with SCA in Enugu, Nigeria are determined in this study.
METHODS: Consecutive children with SCA aged 5-11 years were recruited at the 
weekly sickle cell clinic of the University of Nigeria Teaching Hospital (UNTH) 
Enugu, Nigeria. Their age- and sex- matched normal classmates were recruited as 
controls. The total number of days of school absence for 2009/2010 academic 
session was obtained for each pair of pupils from the class attendance register. 
Academic performance was assessed using the average of the overall scores in the 
three term examinations of same session. Intelligence ability was determined 
with Draw-A-Person Quotient (DAPQ) using the Draw-A-Person Test while 
socio-economic status was determined using the occupational status and 
educational attainment of each parent.
RESULTS: Academic performance of children with SCA showed statistically 
significant association with their socio-economic status (χ2 = 9.626, 
p = 0.047), and significant correlation with DAPQ (r = 0.394, p = 0.000) and age 
(r = -0.412, p = 0.000). However, no significant relationship existed between 
academic performance and school absence in children with SCA (r = -0.080, 
p = 0.453).
CONCLUSIONS: Academic performance of children with SCA is influenced by their 
intelligence ability, age and socio-economic status but not negatively affected 
by their increased school absenteeism.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2431-13-189
PMCID: PMC3835142
PMID: 24246094 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1418. J Dev Behav Pediatr. 2013 Nov-Dec;34(9):688-96. doi: 
10.1097/DBP.0000000000000012.

Relationship between polysomnographic sleep architecture and behavior in 
medication-free children with TS, ADHD, TS and ADHD, and controls.

Stephens RJ(1), Chung SA, Jovanovic D, Guerra R, Stephens B, Sandor P, Shapiro 
CM.

Author information:
(1)*Youthdale Treatment Centres, Toronto, ON, Canada; †Department of Psychiatry, 
University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada; ‡Youthdale Child and Adolescent 
Sleep Centre, Toronto, ON, Canada; §Tourette's Syndrome Clinic, Toronto Western 
Hospital, University Health Network, Toronto, ON, Canada; ‖Department of 
Psychiatry, Toronto Western Hospital, University Health Network, Toronto, ON, 
Canada.

OBJECTIVE: To describe the relationship between sleep architecture and 
behavioral measures in unmedicated children and adolescents with Tourette 
syndrome (TS), attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), TS and comorbid 
ADHD (TS + ADHD), and healthy controls. The study also set out to examine 
differences in sleep architecture with each diagnosis.
METHOD: A cross-sectional, 2-night consecutive polysomnographic sleep study was 
conducted in 90 children. All participants were matched for age, gender, and 
level of intelligence.
RESULTS: Scores on the Child Behavior Checklist delinquency measure were 
modestly but significantly correlated with the number of movements during REM 
sleep (r = .36, p = .003). Significant correlations were also noted among the 
number of total arousals and arousals from slow wave sleep (SWS), and scores on 
the measures of conduct disorder, hyperactivity/immaturity, and 
restless/disorganized behaviors. There were a few significant differences in 
sleep architecture among the diagnostic groups. The ADHD-only group exhibited a 
significantly higher number of total arousals (p < .01) and arousals from SWS (p 
< .01) compared with the other three study groups.
DISCUSSION: Our findings indicate that children with TS and/or ADHD and who have 
more arousals from sleep are significantly more likely to have issues with 
conduct disorder, hyperactivity/immaturity, and restless/disorganized behavior. 
It was also noted that having ADHD, alone or comorbid with TS, is associated 
with a significantly greater number of movements during both non-REM and REM 
sleep. This study underscores the compelling need for the diagnosis and 
treatment of any sleep disorders in children with TS and/or ADHD so as to 
facilitate better management of problem behaviors.

DOI: 10.1097/DBP.0000000000000012
PMID: 24247912 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1419. PLoS One. 2013 Nov 8;8(11):e79586. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0079586. 
eCollection 2013.

Personality traits, education, physical exercise, and childhood neurological 
function as independent predictors of adult obesity.

Cheng H(1), Furnham A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University College London, London, United Kingdom.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate whether personality traits, education, physical 
exercise, parental socio-economic conditions, and childhood neurological 
function are independently associated with obesity in 50 year old adults in a 
longitudinal birth cohort study.
METHOD: The sample consisted of 5,921 participants born in Great Britain in 1958 
and followed up at 7, 11, 33, 42, and 50 years with data on body mass index 
measured at 42 and 50 years.
RESULTS: There was an increase of adult obesity from 14.2% at age 42 to 23.6% at 
50 years. Cohort members who were reported by teachers on overall clumsiness as 
"certainly applied" at age 7 were more likely to become obese at age 50. In 
addition, educational qualifications, traits Conscientiousness and Extraversion, 
psychological distress, and physical exercise were all significantly associated 
with adult obesity. The associations remained to be significant after 
controlling for birth weight and gestation, maternal and paternal BMI, childhood 
BMI, childhood intelligence and behavioural adjustment, as well as diet.
CONCLUSION: Neurological function in childhood, education, trait 
Conscientiousness, and exercise were all significantly and independently 
associated with adult obesity, each explained unique individual variability.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0079586
PMCID: PMC3821861
PMID: 24250828 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


1420. Environ Health Prev Med. 2014 Mar;19(2):151-8. doi: 10.1007/s12199-013-0369-z. 
Epub 2013 Nov 20.

Arsenic contamination in groundwater and its effects on adolescent intelligence 
and social competence in Bangladesh with special reference to daily 
drinking/cooking water intake.

Nahar MN(1), Inaoka T, Fujimura M, Watanabe C, Shimizu H, Tasmin S, Sultana N.

Author information:
(1)The United Graduate School of Agricultural Sciences, Kagoshima University 
Allied to Faculty of Agriculture, Saga University, 1 Honjo-machi, Saga, Saga, 
840-8502, Japan, shapla.ru@gmail.com.

Erratum in
    Environ Health Prev Med. 2014 Mar;19(2):159. Tasnim, Sayra [corrected to 
Tasmin, Saira].

OBJECTIVE: The present study aims to investigate the relationship between 
arsenic (As) exposure and intelligence quotient (IQ) or social competence (SC) 
of Bangladeshi adolescents (aged 14 or 15 years) in Sonargaon thana.
METHODS: Information about socioeconomic status (SES) was collected as 
confounding factors. To evaluate the relative contribution of As sources to 
total As intake, the As concentrations in urine and drinking/cooking water, and 
the amount of water added in cooking, were assessed on site using a food 
frequency questionnaire (FFQ).
RESULTS: The results confirmed that As exposure was essential to lower 
adolescent IQ or SC because they were negatively associated with As exposure 
after controlling for SES (particularly household income). Except for cooking 
water, the amount of drinking water varied with season and appeared to be the 
major As source because the As concentration in water was generally correlated 
with the As concentration in urine, and they were related to lower IQ or SC 
(even after controlling for SES). The FFQ survey revealed that rice was consumed 
the most frequently (more than once daily), followed by daal (bean) soup and 
nonleafy vegetables, but fish, meat, and eggs were consumed approximately once a 
week. Water intake per meal from cooked rice was estimated to be 616 mL/person, 
followed by bean soup (258 mL/person) and cooked vegetables (82 mL/person).
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that water used for cooking might be an 
important source of As, and the cooking process can affect the amount of As in 
cooked food.

DOI: 10.1007/s12199-013-0369-z
PMCID: PMC3944040
PMID: 24254803 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1421. Cereb Cortex. 2015 May;25(5):1188-97. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bht315. Epub 2013 Nov 
20.

The impact of television viewing on brain structures: cross-sectional and 
longitudinal analyses.

Takeuchi H(1), Taki Y(2), Hashizume H(1), Asano K(1), Asano M(1), Sassa Y(1), 
Yokota S(3), Kotozaki Y(4), Nouchi R(5), Kawashima R(6).

Author information:
(1)Division of Developmental Cognitive Neuroscience, Institute of Development, 
Aging and Cancer.
(2)Division of Developmental Cognitive Neuroscience, Institute of Development, 
Aging and Cancer Division of Medical Neuroimaging Analysis, Department of 
Community Medical Supports, Tohoku Medical Megabank Organization Department of 
Nuclear Medicine & Radiology, Institute of Development, Aging and Cancer.
(3)Graduate School of Education.
(4)Smart Ageing International Research Centre, Institute of Development, Aging 
and Cancer.
(5)Human and Social Response Research Division, International Research Institute 
of Disaster Science.
(6)Division of Medical Neuroimaging Analysis, Department of Community Medical 
Supports, Tohoku Medical Megabank Organization Graduate School of Education 
Department of Functional Brain Imaging, Institute of Development, Aging and 
Cancer, Tohoku University, Sendai, Japan.

Television (TV) viewing is known to affect children's verbal abilities and other 
physical, cognitive, and emotional development in psychological studies. 
However, the brain structural development associated with TV viewing has never 
been investigated. Here we examined cross-sectional correlations between the 
duration of TV viewing and regional gray/white matter volume (rGMV/rWMV) among 
133 boys and 143 girls as well as correlations between the duration of TV 
viewing and longitudinal changes that occurred a few years later among 111 boys 
and 105 girls. After correcting for confounding factors, we found positive 
effects of TV viewing on rGMV of the frontopolar and medial prefrontal areas in 
cross-sectional and longitudinal analyses, positive effects of TV viewing on 
rGMV/rWMV of areas of the visual cortex in cross-sectional analyses, and 
positive effects of TV viewing on rGMV of the hypothalamus/septum and 
sensorimotor areas in longitudinal analyses. We also confirmed negative effects 
of TV viewing on verbal intelligence quotient (IQ) in cross-sectional and 
longitudinal analyses. These anatomical correlates may be linked to previously 
known effects of TV viewing on verbal competence, aggression, and physical 
activity. In particular, the present results showed effects of TV viewing on the 
frontopolar area of the brain, which has been associated with intellectual 
abilities.

© The Author 2013. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. 
For Permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bht315
PMID: 24256892 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1422. Can J Neurol Sci. 2013 Nov;40(6):842-7. doi: 10.1017/s0317167100015997.

Normative data for the Stroop color word test for a North American population.

Morrow SA.

BACKGROUND: Cognitive impairment in multiple sclerosis (MS) often involves 
attentional deficits. The Stroop colour word test, a measure of attention, lacks 
current normative data for an english-speaking North american MS population. 
Further some authors suggest the Stroop actually measures processing speed.
OBJECTIVE: To generate normative data for the Stroop colour word test that can 
be used for a Canadian or North american MS population and to examine the 
relationship between processing speed tests--the Paced auditory Serial addition 
Test (PASAT) and Symbol Digit Modalities Test (SDMT)--and the Stroop.
RESULTS: Data from 146 healthy subjects aged 18-56 was collected. age was 
significantly although weakly correlated with general intelligence (r=0.168, 
p=0.043) assessed with the North american adult Reading Test (NAART), and 
education (r=-0.313, p<0.001). No demographic variables were associated with 
SDMT or PASAT. age had a low-moderate negative correlation (r=-0.403, p<0.001) 
with Stroop scores. The mean (±standard deviation, SD) Stroop score was 
45.4(10.4). The z-score can thus be calculated as [(X-45.4)/10.4]. if adjusted 
for age, Xadj = [X-(-0.47)(age-37.5)] and is substituted for X. in a comparison 
MS population consisting of 75 randomly selected patients from the MS Cognitive 
clinic, Stroop and PASAT performance were not related. a relationship existed 
between Stroop and SDMT scores but only 12.2% of the Stroop score variance was 
explained by the SDMT. Therefore, the Stroop measures selective attention 
independently of processing speed.
CONCLUSION: This data can be used to determine impaired attention in MS 
patients.
Données normatives pour le test mot-couleur de Stroop chez une population 
nord-américaine.

DOI: 10.1017/s0317167100015997
PMID: 24257227 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1423. Compr Psychiatry. 2014 Feb;55(2):290-7. doi: 10.1016/j.comppsych.2013.09.010. 
Epub 2013 Oct 22.

Autobiographical memory and its association with neuropsychological function in 
bipolar disorder.

Kim WJ(1), Ha RY(1), Sun JY(1), Ryu V(2), Lee SJ(3), Ha K(4), Cho HS(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, College of Medicine, Yonsei University, Seoul, 
South Korea.
(2)Institute of Behavioral Science in Medicine, College of Medicine, Yonsei 
University, Seoul, South Korea; Department of Psychiatry, College of Medicine, 
Konyang University, Daejeon, South Korea.
(3)Institute of Behavioral Science in Medicine, College of Medicine, Yonsei 
University, Seoul, South Korea.
(4)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Seoul National University Bundang Hospital, 
Gyeonggi-do, South Korea.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, College of Medicine, Yonsei University, Seoul, 
South Korea; Institute of Behavioral Science in Medicine, College of Medicine, 
Yonsei University, Seoul, South Korea. Electronic address: chs0225@yuhs.ac.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to investigate the overgeneralization of 
autobiographical memory (AM) in bipolar disorder (BD) and assess its association 
with multiple cognitive domains.
METHOD: Twenty-eight clinically stable bipolar I patients and an equal number of 
age- and gender-matched healthy controls (HC) were included. All participants 
were examined using the autobiographical memory test (AMT) and the 
neuropsychological battery including the general intelligence, attention, verbal 
memory, verbal fluency, visual memory, and executive functions domain. 
Demographic, clinical, and test variables were compared between BD and HC 
groups. Correlation analyses of AMT scores with cognitive functions were 
performed within each group, controlling for demographic and clinical variables.
RESULTS: Total and negative scores of AMT were significantly lower in BD 
patients compared to HC individuals. AMT scores were significantly correlated 
with WAIS similarities, WCST perseverative errors, and WCST categories completed 
in BD, whereas AMT scores were correlated with verbal memory and verbal fluency 
in HC.
CONCLUSION: Our findings suggest that overgeneral AM is a characteristic of BD 
and is related to executive function. Future studies should investigate the 
benefit of additional treatment focusing on overgeneral AM in BD.

© 2014.

DOI: 10.1016/j.comppsych.2013.09.010
PMID: 24262122 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1424. Rev Neurol. 2013 Dec 1;57(11):515-22.

Neuropsychology of perpetrators of domestic violence: the role of traumatic 
brain injury and alcohol abuse and/or dependence.

[Article in English, Spanish; Abstract available in Spanish from the publisher]

Romero-Martínez Á(1), Moya-Albiol L.

Author information:
(1)Universidad de Valencia, 46071 Valencia, Espana.

INTRODUCTION: Neuropsychological impairments of the executive functions, memory, 
attention, intelligence quotient, and empathy have been found in perpetrators of 
domestic violence (intimate partner violence). These impairments could be 
partially explained by alcohol abuse, dependence, or traumatic brain injuries.
AIMS: This study reviews the neuropsychological deficits of perpetrators of 
intimate partner violence. At the same it seeks to integrate and relate these 
main points with their neuroanatomical correlates. We have also established the 
relationship between alcohol abuse, dependence, brain damage (including 
traumatic brain injuries) and those deficits.
DEVELOPMENT: Scientific literature has been reviewed by means of Google Scholar, 
PsycINFO, PubMed, Medline and ISI Web of Knowledge.
CONCLUSIONS: Perpetrators of domestic violence present high mental rigidity, as 
well as low levels of inhibition, processing speed, verbal and attention skills, 
and abstract reasoning. Additionally, perpetrators show working and long play 
memory impairments. Moreover, those deficits could be impaired by traumatic 
brain injuries and alcohol abuse and/or dependence. Nonetheless, these both 
variables are not enough to explain the deficits. Functional abnormalities on 
the prefrontal and occipital cortex, fusiform gyrus, posterior cingulate gyrus, 
hippocampus, thalamus and amygdala could be associated with these impairments. 
An analysis of these mechanisms may assist in the development of 
neuropsychological rehabilitation programmes that could help improve current 
therapies.

Publisher: TITLE: Neuropsicologia del maltratador: el rol de los traumatismos 
craneoencefalicos y el abuso o dependencia del alcohol.
Introduccion. Gran parte de los hombres que ejercen maltrato contra sus parejas 
presentan deficits en funciones ejecutivas, memoria y atencion, capacidades 
intelectuales y empatia. Dos factores coadyuvantes a estas deficiencias son los 
traumatismos craneoencefalicos y el abuso de alcohol. Objetivo. Revisar y 
recapitular los resultados obtenidos sobre los deficits neuropsicologicos en 
maltratadores y relacionarlos con los correlatos neuroanatomicos implicados en 
las funciones alteradas. Se enfatiza el papel de los traumatismos 
craneoencefalicos y el abuso o la dependencia del alcohol, asi como la posible 
existencia de daño organico cerebral. Desarrollo. Se ha revisado la bibliografia 
cientifica usando los buscadores Google Scholar, PsycINFO, PubMed, Medline e ISI 
Web of Knowledge. Conclusiones. Los maltratadores presentan un detrimento de la 
flexibilidad cognitiva, la capacidad de inhibicion, la velocidad de 
procesamiento y las habilidades verbales. Ademas, muestran una atencion pobre, 
una baja capacidad de abstraccion y una limitacion en las habilidades mnemicas, 
tanto de la memoria de trabajo como a largo plazo. Los traumatismos 
craneoencefalicos y el abuso o la dependencia del alcohol exacerban los deficits 
ya presentes en los maltratadores, pero no son suficientes per se para 
explicarlos. Estos deficits podrian ser producto de un funcionamiento anormal de 
estructuras como los cortex prefrontal y occipital, el giro fusiforme y el 
cingulado posterior, el hipocampo, el talamo y la amigdala. La comprension de 
dichos mecanismos favoreceria el desarrollo de terapias de rehabilitacion 
neuropsicologica coadyuvantes a las terapias establecidas hoy en dia.

PMID: 24265146 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1425. Balkan J Med Genet. 2013 Jun;16(1):21-30. doi: 10.2478/bjmg-2013-0014.

Association between loss of dp140 and cognitive impairment in duchenne and 
becker dystrophies.

Chamova T(1), Guergueltcheva V, Raycheva M, Todorov T, Genova J, Bichev S, 
Bojinova V, Mitev V, Tournev I, Todorova A.

Author information:
(1)Clinic of Neurology, University Hospital "Alexandrovska," Sofia, Bulgaria.

The presence of variable degrees of non progressive cognitive impairment is 
recognized as a clinical feature of patients with Duchenne and Becker muscular 
dystrophies (DMD and BMD), but its pathogenesis still remains a matter of 
debate. A number of findings have proved that rearrangements located in the 
second part of the dystrophin ( DMD ) gene seem to be preferentially associated 
with cognitive impairment. Dp140 is a distal dystrophin isoform, mainly 
expressed during fetal brain development, whose role for neuropsychological 
functioning was suggested. The aims of the current study were to explore the 
possible association between cognitive impairment and DNA mutations affecting 
the regulatory regions of Dp140, as well as to compare the neuropsychological 
functioning of patients affected with DMD and Intermediate muscular dystrophy 
(IMD) with those affected by Becker muscular dystrophy (BMD). Fiftythree 
patients genetically diagnosed with DMD, IMD and BMD, subdivided according to 
sites of mutations along the DMD gene, underwent a neuropsychological 
assessment, evaluating their general cognitive abilities, verbal memory, 
attention and executive functions. Twenty patients with mutations, terminating 
in exon 44 or starting at exon 45 were tested by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) 
amplification of microsatellites STR44, SK12, SK21 and P20 DXS269, in order to 
evaluate the integrity of the Dp140 promoter region. According to our 
statistical results, there was not a significant difference in terms of general 
intelligence between the allelic forms of the disease, a higher frequency of 
mental retardation was observed in DMD patients. The patients with BMD had 
better results on tests, measuring long-term verbal learning memory and 
executive functions. We found that patients lacking Dp140 performed more poorly 
on all neuropsychological tests compared to those with preserved Dp140. Overall, 
our findings suggest that the loss of Dp140 is associated with a higher risk of 
intellectual impairment among patients with dystrophinopathies and highlights 
the possible role of this distal isoform in normal cognitive development.

DOI: 10.2478/bjmg-2013-0014
PMCID: PMC3835293
PMID: 24265581


1426. PLoS One. 2013 Nov 12;8(11):e78599. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0078599. 
eCollection 2013.

Impact of chemotherapy for childhood leukemia on brain morphology and function.

Genschaft M(1), Huebner T, Plessow F, Ikonomidou VN, Abolmaali N, Krone F, 
Hoffmann A, Holfeld E, Vorwerk P, Kramm C, Gruhn B, Koustenis E, Hernaiz-Driever 
P, Mandal R, Suttorp M, Hummel T, Ikonomidou C, Kirschbaum C, Smolka MN.

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik für Kinder- und Jugendmedizin, Universitätsklinikum 
Carl Gustav Carus, Technische Universität Dresden, Dresden, Germany.

OBJECTIVE: Using multidisciplinary treatment modalities the majority of children 
with cancer can be cured but we are increasingly faced with therapy-related 
toxicities. We studied brain morphology and neurocognitive functions in 
adolescent and young adult survivors of childhood acute, low and standard risk 
lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), which was successfully treated with chemotherapy. 
We expected that intravenous and intrathecal chemotherapy administered in 
childhood will affect grey matter structures, including hippocampus and 
olfactory bulbs, areas where postnatal neurogenesis is ongoing.
METHODS: We examined 27 ALL-survivors and 27 age-matched healthy controls, ages 
15-22 years. ALL-survivors developed disease prior to their 11th birthday 
without central nervous system involvement, were treated with intrathecal and 
systemic chemotherapy and received no radiation. Volumes of grey, white matter 
and olfactory bulbs were measured on T1 and T2 magnetic resonance images 
manually, using FIRST (FMRIB's integrated Registration and Segmentation Tool) 
and voxel-based morphometry (VBM). Memory, executive functions, attention, 
intelligence and olfaction were assessed.
RESULTS: Mean volumes of left hippocampus, amygdala, thalamus and nucleus 
accumbens were smaller in the ALL group. VBM analysis revealed significantly 
smaller volumes of the left calcarine gyrus, both lingual gyri and the left 
precuneus. DTI data analysis provided no evidence for white matter pathology. 
Lower scores in hippocampus-dependent memory were measured in ALL-subjects, 
while lower figural memory correlated with smaller hippocampal volumes.
INTERPRETATION: Findings demonstrate that childhood ALL, treated with 
chemotherapy, is associated with smaller grey matter volumes of neocortical and 
subcortical grey matter and lower hippocampal memory performance in adolescence 
and adulthood.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0078599
PMCID: PMC3827075
PMID: 24265700 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


1427. J Pediatr Endocrinol Metab. 2013;26(7-8):743-6.

KCNJ11 in-frame 15-bp deletion leading to glibenclamide-responsive neonatal 
diabetes mellitus in a Chinese child.

Yang W, Wei H, Sang Y.

The ATP-sensitive K+ channel controls insulin secretion from the islet. 
Mutations in KCNJ11 can cause permanent and transient neonatal diabetes. To 
date, more than 30 KCNJ11 mutations have been revealed as related to the onset 
of neonatal diabetes mellitus (NDM), most of which are responsive to 
glibenclamide treatment. In the present study, we sequenced the KCNJ11 gene in a 
Chinese girl diagnosed with NDM and in her parents. An in-frame 15-bp KCNJ11 
deletion was identified in the patient, whereas no KCNJ11 deletions were found 
in her parents, indicating that this deletion was de novo. The patient was 
responsive to the treatment of glibenclamide. Ten months of follow-up showed 
that, besides permanent NDM, the motor and intelligence development of the girl 
was normal and she suffered no onset of convulsions. The result, to some degree, 
improved our knowledge on NDM.

PMID: 24266052 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1428. Child Neuropsychol. 2014;20(6):692-9. doi: 10.1080/09297049.2013.856395. Epub 
2013 Nov 25.

Performance on the dimensional change card sort and backward digit span by young 
children with autism without intellectual disability.

Faja S(1), Dawson G.

Author information:
(1)a Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences , University of Washington 
, Seattle , WA , USA.

The early development of executive function (EF) and its relation to autism 
symptom expression is of considerable theoretical interest, particularly in 
children without general cognitive delay. Executive function was tested in 23 
children with autism spectrum disorders (ASD) without intellectual disability 
and 20 age- and IQ-matched typically developing children. Even though 
performance was equivalent between the two groups on tests of general 
intelligence, flexibility in card sorting was lower for children with ASD. 
Verbal working memory during the backward digit span did not differ between 
groups. Among children with ASD, poorer performance on card sorting 
distinguished a subgroup with worse social-communication functioning above and 
beyond IQ. Controlling for IQ social and repetitive symptoms of ASD did not 
differ based on card sorting ability.

DOI: 10.1080/09297049.2013.856395
PMCID: PMC4032814
PMID: 24266398 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


1429. Atherosclerosis. 2013 Dec;231(2):234-7. doi: 
10.1016/j.atherosclerosis.2013.09.018. Epub 2013 Oct 2.

IQ in childhood and atherosclerosis in middle-age: 40 Year follow-up of the 
Newcastle Thousand Families Cohort Study.

Roberts BA(1), Batty GD, Gale CR, Deary IJ, Parker L, Pearce MS.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, Department of 
Psychology, University of Edinburgh, 7 George Square, Edinburgh EH8 9JZ, UK. 
Electronic address: beverly.roberts@ed.ac.uk.

OBJECTIVE: Carotid intima-media thickness (IMT) is a known precursor to coronary 
heart disease (CHD) and other relevant health outcomes such as stroke and 
cognitive impairment. In addition, higher childhood intelligence has been 
associated with lower risk of coronary heart disease events in later life, 
although the mechanisms of effect are unclear. We therefore examined the 
association between childhood intelligence and atherosclerosis using carotid IMT 
as a marker of the atherosclerotic process.
APPROACH: Participants were 412 members of the Newcastle Thousand Families 
Study, a prospective cohort study of all 1142 births in the city of Newcastle in 
May and June 1947, who took an IQ test and English and arithmetic tests at age 
11 years. Study members participated in a medical examination and lifestyle 
assessment at age 49-51 years during which IMT was measured using ultrasound 
techniques.
RESULTS: Individuals with higher childhood IQ score had a lower mean IMT in 
middle-age. A standard deviation higher score in childhood overall IQ was 
associated with a 0.053 mm (95% CI -0.102, -0.004) lower IMT in men and a 0.039 
mm (95% CI -0.080, -0.002) lower IMT in women. Similar levels of association 
were found for the English and arithmetic tests. After adjustment for a range of 
covariates including education, the size of effect was undiminished in men but 
increased in women.
CONCLUSIONS: In the present study, higher childhood IQ scores were associated 
with a lower degree of atherosclerosis by middle-age.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.atherosclerosis.2013.09.018
PMCID: PMC3918147
PMID: 24267233 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1430. Prog Cardiovasc Dis. 2013 Nov-Dec;56(3):281-301. doi: 
10.1016/j.pcad.2013.09.016.

Urbanization and international trade and investment policies as determinants of 
noncommunicable diseases in Sub-Saharan Africa.

Schram A(1), Labonté R, Sanders D.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Population Health, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Ontario, 
Canada.

There are three dominant globalization pathways affecting noncommunicable 
diseases in Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA): urbanization, trade liberalization, and 
investment liberalization. Urbanization carries potential health benefits due to 
improved access to an increased variety of food imports, although for the 
growing number of urban poor, this has often meant increased reliance on cheap, 
highly processed food commodities. Reduced barriers to trade have eased the 
importation of such commodities, while investment liberalization has increased 
corporate consolidation over global and domestic food chains. Higher profit 
margins on processed foods have promoted the creation of 'obesogenic' 
environments, which through progressively integrated global food systems have 
been increasingly 'exported' to developing nations. This article explores 
globalization processes, the food environment, and dietary health outcomes in 
SSA through the use of trend analyses and structural equation modelling. The 
findings are considered in the context of global barriers and facilitators for 
healthy public policy.

© 2013.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pcad.2013.09.016
PMCID: PMC7111622
PMID: 24267436 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1431. Neuropsychologia. 2014 Jan;53:54-63. doi: 
10.1016/j.neuropsychologia.2013.11.002. Epub 2013 Nov 21.

Association of basal forebrain volumes and cognition in normal aging.

Wolf D(1), Grothe M(2), Fischer FU(3), Heinsen H(4), Kilimann I(5), Teipel S(5), 
Fellgiebel A(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University Medical Center Mainz, 
55131 Mainz, Germany. Electronic address: dominik.wolf@unimedizin-mainz.de.
(2)DZNE, German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, 18147 Rostock, Germany.
(3)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University Medical Center Mainz, 
55131 Mainz, Germany.
(4)Morphological Brain Research Unit, Department of Psychiatry, University of 
Würzburg, 97080 Würzburg, Germany.
(5)DZNE, German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, 18147 Rostock, Germany; 
Department of Psychosomatic Medicine, University of Rostock, 18147 Rostock, 
Germany.

The basal forebrain cholinergic system (BFCS) is known to undergo moderate 
neurodegenerative alterations during normal aging and severe atrophy in 
Alzheimer's disease (AD). It has been suggested that functional and structural 
alterations of the BFCS mediate cognitive performance in normal aging and AD. 
But, it is still unclear to what extend age-associated cognitive decline can be 
related to BFCS in normal aging. We analyzed the relationship between BFCS 
volume and cognition using MRI and a comprehensive neuropsychological test 
battery in a cohort of 43 healthy elderly subjects spanning the age range from 
60 to 85 years. Most notably, we found significant associations between general 
intelligence and BFCS volumes, specifically within areas corresponding to 
posterior nuclei of the nucleus basalis of Meynert (Ch4p) and the nucleus 
subputaminalis (NSP). Associations between specific cognitive domains and BFCS 
volumes were less pronounced. Supplementary analyses demonstrated that 
especially the volume of NSP but also the volume of Ch4p was related to the 
volume of widespread temporal, frontal, and parietal gray and white matter 
regions. Volumes of these gray and white matter regions were also related to 
general intelligence. Higher volumes of Ch4p and NSP may enhance the 
effectiveness of acetylcholine supply in related gray and white matter regions 
underlying general intelligence and hence explain the observed association 
between the volume of Ch4p as well as NSP and general intelligence. Since 
general intelligence is known to attenuate the degree of age-associated 
cognitive decline and the risk of developing late-onset AD, the BFCS might, 
besides the specific contribution to the pathophysiology in AD, constitute a 
mechanism of brain resilience in normal aging.

© 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuropsychologia.2013.11.002
PMID: 24269297 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1432. Neuropsychologia. 2014 Jan;53:137-45. doi: 
10.1016/j.neuropsychologia.2013.11.008. Epub 2013 Nov 21.

Longitudinal processing speed impairments in males with autism and the effects 
of white matter microstructure.

Travers BG(1), Bigler ED(2), Tromp do PM(3), Adluru N(3), Froehlich AL(4), Ennis 
C(3), Lange N(5), Nielsen JA(6), Prigge MB(4), Alexander AL(7), Lainhart JE(3).

Author information:
(1)Waisman Laboratory for Brain Imaging and Behavior, University of 
Wisconsin-Madison, 1500 Highland Avenue, Madison, WI 53705, USA. Electronic 
address: btravers@wisc.edu.
(2)Department of Psychology and Neuroscience Center, Brigham Young University, 
Provo, UT 84602, USA; The Brain Institute of Utah, University of Utah, 36 South 
Wasatch Drive, Salt Lake City, UT 84112, USA; Department of Psychiatry, 
University of Utah, 501 Chipeta Way, Salt Lake City, UT 84108, USA.
(3)Waisman Laboratory for Brain Imaging and Behavior, University of 
Wisconsin-Madison, 1500 Highland Avenue, Madison, WI 53705, USA.
(4)Department of Radiology, University of Utah, 30 North 1900 East #1A071, Salt 
Lake City, UT, USA.
(5)Departments of Psychiatry and Biostatistics, Harvard University, 677 
Huntington Avenue, Boston, MA 02115, USA; Neurostatistics Laboratory, McLean 
Hospital, 115 Mill Street, Belmont, MA 02478, USA.
(6)Interdepartmental Program in Neuroscience, University of Utah, 401 MREB, 20 
North 1900 East, Salt Lake City, UT 84132, USA.
(7)Waisman Laboratory for Brain Imaging and Behavior, University of 
Wisconsin-Madison, 1500 Highland Avenue, Madison, WI 53705, USA; Department of 
Psychiatry, University of Wisconsin-Madison, 6001 Research Park Blvd., Madison, 
WI 53719, USA; Department of Medical Physics, University of Wisconsin-Madison, 
1111 Highland Avenue, Room 1005 Madison, WI 53705, USA.

The present study used an accelerated longitudinal design to examine group 
differences and age-related changes in processing speed in 81 individuals with 
autism spectrum disorder (ASD) compared to 56 age-matched individuals with 
typical development (ages 6-39 years). Processing speed was assessed using the 
Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children-3rd edition (WISC-III) and the Wechsler 
Adult Intelligence Scale-3rd edition (WAIS-III). Follow-up analyses examined 
processing speed subtest performance and relations between processing speed and 
white matter microstructure (as measured with diffusion tensor imaging [DTI] in 
a subset of these participants). After controlling for full scale IQ, the 
present results show that processing speed index standard scores were on average 
12 points lower in the group with ASD compared to the group with typical 
development. There were, however, no significant group differences in standard 
score age-related changes within this age range. For subtest raw scores, the 
group with ASD demonstrated robustly slower processing speeds in the adult 
versions of the IQ test (i.e., WAIS-III) but not in the child versions 
(WISC-III), even though age-related changes were similar in both the ASD and 
typically developing groups. This pattern of results may reflect difficulties 
that become increasingly evident in ASD on more complex measures of processing 
speed. Finally, DTI measures of whole-brain white matter microstructure 
suggested that fractional anisotropy (but not mean diffusivity, radial 
diffusivity, or axial diffusivity) made significant but small-sized 
contributions to processing speed standard scores across our entire sample. 
Taken together, the present findings suggest that robust decreases in processing 
speed may be present in ASD, more pronounced in adulthood, and partially 
attributable to white matter microstructural integrity.

© 2013 Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuropsychologia.2013.11.008
PMCID: PMC3946881
PMID: 24269298 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1433. Diagn Cytopathol. 2014 Jul;42(7):582-91. doi: 10.1002/dc.23077. Epub 2013 Nov 
22.

Using classification and regression trees, liquid-based cytology and nuclear 
morphometry for the discrimination of endometrial lesions.

Pouliakis A(1), Margari C, Margari N, Chrelias C, Zygouris D, Meristoudis C, 
Panayiotides I, Karakitsos P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cytopathology, University of Athens, "ATTIKON" University 
Hospital, Athens, Greece.

'The objective of this study is to investigate the potential of classification 
and regression trees (CARTs) in discriminating benign from malignant endometrial 
nuclei and lesions. The study was performed on 222 histologically confirmed 
liquid based cytological smears, specifically: 117 benign cases, 62 malignant 
cases and 43 hyperplasias with or without atypia. About 100 nuclei were measured 
from each case using an image analysis system; in total, we collected 22783 
nuclei. The nuclei from 50% of the cases (the training set) were used to 
construct a CART model that was used for knowledge extraction. The nuclei from 
the remaining 50% of cases (test set) were used to evaluate the stability and 
performance of the CART on unknown data. Based on the results of the CART for 
nuclei classification, we propose two classification methods to discriminate 
benign from malignant cases. The CART model had an overall accuracy for the 
classification of endometrial nuclei equal to 85%, specificity 90.68%, and 
sensitivity 72.05%. Both methods for case classification had similar 
performance: overall accuracy in the range 94-95%, specificity 95%, and 
sensitivity 91-94%. The results of the proposed system outperform the standard 
cytological diagnosis of endometrial lesions. This study highlights interesting 
diagnostic features of endometrial nuclear morphology and provides a new 
classification approach for endometrial nuclei and cases. The proposed method 
can be a useful tool for the everyday practice of the cytological laboratory.

© 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/dc.23077
PMID: 24273089 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1434. Intelligence. 2013 Sep;41(5):10.1016/j.intell.2013.06.017. doi: 
10.1016/j.intell.2013.06.017.

An Increase of Intelligence in China 1986-2012.

Liu J(1), Lynn R.

Author information:
(1)University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.

The Flynn effect has been widely researched in Western and European nations, 
while it has been comparatively understudied in Asian countries. This study 
examines possible Flynn effects in China from 1985-86 and to 2011-12. Results 
are reported for an IQ increase among 12 year olds on the Full Scale IQ WISC-R 
(Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children- Revised) of 6.19 IQ points, a gain on 
the Performance IQ of 6.55 IQ points, and a gain on the Verbal IQ of 1.91 IQ 
points.

DOI: 10.1016/j.intell.2013.06.017
PMCID: PMC3834612
PMID: 24273359


1435. Neuropsychiatr Dis Treat. 2013;9:1767-84. doi: 10.2147/NDT.S52298. Epub 2013 Nov 
12.

Brain volumes and neuropsychological performance are related to current smoking 
and alcoholism history.

Luhar RB(1), Sawyer KS, Gravitz Z, Ruiz SM, Oscar-Berman M.

Author information:
(1)US Department of Veterans Affairs, Boston Healthcare System, Massachusetts 
General Hospital, Boston, MA, USA ; Boston University School of Medicine, 
Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.

BACKGROUND: Dual dependence on alcohol and nicotine is common, with many reports 
suggesting that more than 80% of alcoholics also smoke cigarettes. Even after 
cessation of alcohol consumption, many recovering alcoholics continue to smoke. 
In this exploratory study, we examined how current smoking and a history of 
alcoholism interacted in relation to brain volumes and neuropsychological 
performance.
METHODS: Participants were 14 abstinent long-term alcoholics (seven current 
smokers and seven nonsmokers), and 13 nonalcoholics (six current smokers and 
seven nonsmokers). The groups were equivalent in age, gender, education, and 
intelligence quotient. Two multiecho magnetization-prepared rapid acquisition 
with gradient echo (MP-RAGE) scans were collected for all participants using a 
3T magnetic resonance imaging scanner with a 32 channel head coil. Brain volumes 
for each gray and white matter region of interest were derived using FreeSurfer. 
Participants completed a battery of neuropsychological tests measuring 
intelligence quotient, memory, executive functions, personality variables, and 
affect.
RESULTS: COMPARED TO NONSMOKING NONALCOHOLICS, ALCOHOLICS WHO SMOKE (THE 
COMORBID GROUP) HAD VOLUMETRIC ABNORMALITIES IN: pre- and para-central frontal 
cortical areas and rostral middle frontal white matter; parahippocampal and 
temporal pole regions; the amygdala; the pallidum; the ventral diencephalic 
region; and the lateral ventricle. The comorbid group performed worse than 
nonsmoking nonalcoholics on tests of executive functioning and on visually-based 
memory tests. History of alcoholism was associated with higher neuroticism 
scores among smokers, and current smoking was associated with higher sensation 
seeking scores and lower extraversion scores among nonalcoholics.
CONCLUSION: Results from this exploratory study support and extend prior reports 
showing that alcoholism and smoking, alone and in combination, are associated 
with structural brain abnormalities and poorer performance on neuropsychological 
tests. Therefore, it is important to consider smoking status in alcoholism 
studies and vice versa.

DOI: 10.2147/NDT.S52298
PMCID: PMC3836660
PMID: 24273408


1436. Front Hum Neurosci. 2013 Nov 11;7:756. doi: 10.3389/fnhum.2013.00756. 
eCollection 2013.

Exceptional visuospatial imagery in schizophrenia; implications for madness and 
creativity.

Benson TL(1), Park S.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Neuroscience Laboratory, Department of Psychology, Vanderbilt 
University Nashville, TN, USA.

Biographical and historical accounts suggest a link between scientific 
creativity and schizophrenia. Longitudinal studies of gifted children indicate 
that visuospatial imagery plays a pivotal role in exceptional achievements in 
science and mathematics. We asked whether visuospatial imagery is enhanced in 
individuals with schizophrenia (SZ). We compared SZ and matched healthy controls 
(HC) on five visuospatial tasks tapping parietal and frontoparietal functions. 
Two aspects of visuospatial transformation, spatial location and mental imagery 
manipulation were examined with Paper Folding Test (PFT) and jigsaw puzzle task 
(JPT), respectively. Visuospatial intelligence was assessed with Ravens 
Progressive Matrices, which is associated with frontoparietal network activity. 
Hemispatial inattention implicating parietal function was assessed with line 
bisection (LB) task. Mediated by prefrontal cortex, spatial delayed response 
task (DRT) was used to index working memory maintenance, which was impaired in 
SZ compared to HC. In contrast, SZ showed intact visuospatial intelligence and 
transformation of location. Further, SZ performed significantly better than HC 
on JPT indicating enhanced mental imagery manipulation. Spatial working memory 
(SWM) maintenance and mental imagery manipulation were strongly associated in HC 
but dissociated in SZ. Thus, we observed enhanced mental imagery manipulation in 
SZ but the dissociation of mental imagery from working memory suggests a 
disrupted frontoparietal network. Finally, while HC showed the expected leftward 
pseudoneglect, SZ showed increased rightward LB bias implicating left 
hemispatial inattention and impaired right parietal control of spatial 
attention. The current results chart a unique profile of impaired, spared and 
enhanced parietal-mediated visuospatial functions implicating parietal 
abnormalities as a biobehavioral marker for SZ. We discuss these results in 
relation to creative cognition.

DOI: 10.3389/fnhum.2013.00756
PMCID: PMC3822289
PMID: 24273503


1437. Front Microbiol. 2013 Nov 12;4:335. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2013.00335. eCollection 
2013.

Are Myxobacteria intelligent?

Kaiser D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Stanford University School of Medicine Stanford, 
CA, USA.

"Intelligence" is understood in different ways. Because humans are proud of 
their ability to speak, intelligence often includes the ability to communicate 
with others, to plan for the future, and to solve frequently encountered 
problems. Myxobacteria are among the most socially adept and ubiquitous of 
bacteria that live in the soil. To survive in nature, Myxobacteria communicate 
with their peers, using signals that elicit specific responses. Both 
swarming-growth and starvation-induced fruiting body development depend upon the 
specificity and effectiveness of signals passed between cells. Dynamic swarms 
spread outward, forming regular multi-cellular and multi-layered structures as 
they spread. Several different extra-cellular signals have been identified for 
fruiting body development and one is hypothesized for swarm development. Some 
extra-cellular signals are small, diffusible molecules. Others are protein 
molecules. The swarm signal appears to consist of structurally complex, protein 
to protein, contact junctions between pairs of side by side aligned cells. Each 
junction persists for less than a minute before disconnecting. After separating, 
both cells move on to make similar, transient connections with other cells. 
Eventually, the signal spreads across a prescribed population of communicating 
cells.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2013.00335
PMCID: PMC3824092
PMID: 24273536


1438. Autism. 2015 Jan;19(1):64-72. doi: 10.1177/1362361313510068. Epub 2013 Nov 25.

Understanding the gap between cognitive abilities and daily living skills in 
adolescents with autism spectrum disorders with average intelligence.

Duncan AW(1), Bishop SL(2).

Author information:
(1)Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center, USA Amie.Duncan@cchmc.org.
(2)Weill Cornell Medical College, USA.

Daily living skills standard scores on the Vineland Adaptive Behavior Scales-2nd 
edition were examined in 417 adolescents from the Simons Simplex Collection. All 
participants had at least average intelligence and a diagnosis of autism 
spectrum disorder. Descriptive statistics and binary logistic regressions were 
used to examine the prevalence and predictors of a "daily living skills 
deficit," defined as below average daily living skills in the context of average 
intelligence quotient. Approximately half of the adolescents were identified as 
having a daily living skills deficit. Autism symptomatology, intelligence 
quotient, maternal education, age, and sex accounted for only 10% of the 
variance in predicting a daily living skills deficit. Identifying factors 
associated with better or worse daily living skills may help shed light on the 
variability in adult outcome in individuals with autism spectrum disorder with 
average intelligence.

© The Author(s) 2013.

DOI: 10.1177/1362361313510068
PMCID: PMC7398153
PMID: 24275020 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1439. Prog Neuropsychopharmacol Biol Psychiatry. 2014 Mar 3;49:63-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.pnpbp.2013.11.009. Epub 2013 Nov 22.

Distinct effects of duration of untreated psychosis on brain cortical activities 
in different treatment phases of schizophrenia: a multi-channel near-infrared 
spectroscopy study.

Chou PH(1), Koike S(2), Nishimura Y(3), Kawasaki S(4), Satomura Y(3), Kinoshita 
A(3), Takizawa R(5), Kasai K(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Graduate School of Medicine, The University of 
Tokyo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, 113-8655, Japan; Department of Psychiatry, Taichung 
Veterans General Hospital, Taichung City, 40705, Taiwan.
(2)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Graduate School of Medicine, The University of 
Tokyo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, 113-8655, Japan; Office for Mental Health Support, 
Division for Counseling and Support, the University of Tokyo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 
113-0033, Japan.
(3)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Graduate School of Medicine, The University of 
Tokyo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, 113-8655, Japan.
(4)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Graduate School of Medicine, The University of 
Tokyo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, 113-8655, Japan; Application Development Office, 
Hitachi Medical Corporation, Kashiwa City, Chiba 277-0804, Japan.
(5)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Graduate School of Medicine, The University of 
Tokyo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, 113-8655, Japan; Social, Genetic and Developmental 
Psychiatry Centre, Institute of Psychiatry, King's College London, London, UK.
(6)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Graduate School of Medicine, The University of 
Tokyo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, 113-8655, Japan. Electronic address: 
kasaik-tky@umin.net.

BACKGROUND: Duration of untreated psychosis (DUP) has been shown to be 
associated with both poor short-term and long-term outcomes in schizophrenia. 
Even so, few studies have used functional neuroimaging to investigate DUP in 
schizophrenia. In the present study, we used near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) 
to investigate the influence of DUP on brain functions during a verbal fluency 
test (VFT) in patients with schizophrenia.
METHODS: A total of 62 patients with schizophrenia were included. They were 
categorized into either short treatment (≤6months, n=33) or long treatment 
(>6months, n=29) groups based on their duration of treatment. Hemodynamic 
changes over the frontotemporal regions during a VFT were measured using 
multi-channel NIRS. We examined the associations between DUP and hemodynamic 
changes in each group to explore if there were different effects of DUP on brain 
cortical activity at different treatment durations.
RESULTS: In the long treatment group, we found significant associations between 
a longer DUP and decreased cortical activity approximately at the left inferior 
frontal gyrus, left middle frontal gyrus, left postcentral gyrus, right 
precentral gyrus, bilateral superior temporal gyrus, and bilateral middle 
temporal gyrus, whereas no associations between DUP and brain cortical activity 
were observed in the short treatment group.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results indicated that longer DUP may be associated with 
decreased level of cortical activities over the frontotemporal regions in the 
long-term. Early detection and intervention of psychosis that shortens DUP might 
help to improve the long-term outcomes in patients with schizophrenia.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pnpbp.2013.11.009
PMID: 24275075 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1440. Stud Hist Philos Biol Biomed Sci. 2014 Mar;45:68-77. doi: 
10.1016/j.shpsc.2013.10.007. Epub 2013 Nov 22.

Hysteria, race, and phlogiston. A model of ontological elimination in the human 
sciences.

Ludwig D(1).

Author information:
(1)Columbia University, Philosophy Department, 1150 Amsterdam Avenue, 708 
Philosophy Hall, New York, NY 10027, United States. Electronic address: 
davidundludwig@gmail.com.

Elimination controversies are ubiquitous in philosophy and the human sciences. 
For example, it has been suggested that human races, hysteria, intelligence, 
mental disorder, propositional attitudes such as beliefs and desires, the self, 
and the super-ego should be eliminated from the list of respectable entities in 
the human sciences. I argue that eliminativist proposals are often presented in 
the framework of an oversimplified "phlogiston model" and suggest an alternative 
account that describes ontological elimination on a gradual scale between 
criticism of empirical assumptions and conceptual choices.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.shpsc.2013.10.007
PMID: 24275680 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1441. J Exerc Rehabil. 2013 Apr;9(2):316-25. doi: 10.12965/jer.130017. Epub 2013 Apr 
25.

Effect of complex treatment using visual and auditory stimuli on the symptoms of 
attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder in children.

Park MS(1), Byun KW, Park YK, Kim MH, Jung SH, Kim H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health and Welfare for the Elderly, Graduate School, Daegu 
Haany University, Gyeongsan, Korea.

We investigated the effects of complex treatment using visual and auditory 
stimuli on the symptoms of attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in 
children. Forty-seven male children (7-13 yr old), who were clinically diagnosed 
with ADHD at the Balance Brain Center in Seoul, Korea, were included in this 
study. The complex treatment consisted of visual and auditory stimuli, core 
muscle exercise, targeting ball exercise, ocular motor exercise, and visual 
motor integration. All subjects completed the complex treatment for 60 min/day, 
2-3 times/week for more than 12 weeks. Data regarding visual and auditory 
reaction time and cognitive function were obtained using the Neurosync program, 
Stroop Color-Word Test, and test of nonverbal intelligence (TONI) at pre- and 
post-treatment. The complex treatment significantly decreased the total reaction 
time, while it increased the number of combo actions on visual and auditory 
stimuli (P< 0.05). The Stroop color, word, and color-word scores were 
significantly increased at post-treatment compared to the scores at pretreatment 
(P< 0.05). There was no significant change in the TONI scores, although a 
tendency toward an increase in these scores was observed. In conclusion, complex 
treatment using visual and auditory stimuli alleviated the symptoms of ADHD and 
improved cognitive function in children. In addition, visual and auditory 
function might be possible indicators for demonstrating effective ADHD 
intervention.

DOI: 10.12965/jer.130017
PMCID: PMC3836515
PMID: 24278878


1442. Appl Neuropsychol Child. 2015;4(1):49-57. doi: 10.1080/21622965.2013.802649. 
Epub 2013 Nov 26.

Neuropsychological profile of duchenne muscular dystrophy.

Perumal AR(1), Rajeswaran J, Nalini A.

Author information:
(1)a Department of Clinical Psychology , National Institute of Mental Health and 
Neurosciences , Bangalore , Karnataka , India.

Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is an inherited myogenic disorder 
characterized by progressive muscle wasting. DMD is a fatal X-linked recessive 
disorder with an estimated prevalence of 1 in 3,500 male live births. This 
disease has long been associated with intellectual impairment. Research has 
shown that boys with DMD have variable intellectual performance, indicating the 
presence of specific cognitive deficits. The aim of the study was to use a 
battery of intelligence, learning, and memory tests to identify a 
neuropsychological profile in boys with DMD. A total of 22 boys diagnosed with 
DMD in the age range of 6 to 10 years old were evaluated using the Wechsler 
Intelligence Scale for Children-Third Edition, Rey's Auditory Verbal Learning 
Test, and the Memory for Designs Test. The data were interpreted using means, 
standard deviations, percentages, and percentiles. Normative data were also used 
for further interpretation. The results showed that boys with DMD had a 
significantly lower IQ (88.5). Verbal IQ (86.59) was found to be lower than 
Performance IQ (92.64). There was evidence of impaired performance on the 
Processing Speed, Freedom From Distractibility, and Verbal Comprehension 
Indexes. Specific deficits in information processing, complex attention, 
immediate verbal memory span, verbal working memory, verbal comprehension, 
vocabulary, visuoconstruction ability, and verbal learning and encoding were 
observed. However, perceptional organization, general fund of information, 
abstract reasoning, visual discrimination and acuity, visual learning and 
memory, and verbal memory were adequate. The neuropsychological findings support 
the hypothesis that these children have specific cognitive deficits as opposed 
to a global intellectual deficit.

DOI: 10.1080/21622965.2013.802649
PMID: 24279481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1443. Arch Clin Neuropsychol. 2014 Feb;29(1):75-85. doi: 10.1093/arclin/act086. Epub 
2013 Nov 25.

A cluster analytic study of the Wechsler Intelligence Test for Children-IV in 
children referred for psychoeducational assessment due to persistent academic 
difficulties.

Hale CR(1), Casey JE, Ricciardi PW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Windsor, Windsor, Ontario, Canada.

Wechsler Intelligence Test for Children-IV core subtest scores of 472 children 
were cluster analyzed to determine if reliable and valid subgroups would emerge. 
Three subgroups were identified. Clusters were reliable across different stages 
of the analysis as well as across algorithms and samples. With respect to 
external validity, the Globally Low cluster differed from the other two clusters 
on Wechsler Individual Achievement Test-II Word Reading, Numerical Operations, 
and Spelling subtests, whereas the latter two clusters did not differ from one 
another. The clusters derived have been identified in studies using previous 
WISC editions. Clusters characterized by poor performance on subtests 
historically associated with the VIQ (i.e., VCI + WMI) and PIQ (i.e., POI + PSI) 
did not emerge, nor did a cluster characterized by low scores on PRI subtests. 
Picture Concepts represented the highest subtest score in every cluster, failing 
to vary in a predictable manner with the other PRI subtests.

DOI: 10.1093/arclin/act086
PMID: 24280694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1444. Brain Behav Evol. 2013;82(4):220-36. doi: 10.1159/000356091. Epub 2013 Nov 21.

Biogenic amines and collective organization in a superorganism: neuromodulation 
of social behavior in ants.

Kamhi JF(1), Traniello JF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Boston University, Boston, Mass., USA.

The ecological dominance of ants has to a great extent been achieved through 
their collective action and complex social organization. Ants provide diverse 
model systems to examine the neural underpinnings of individual behavior and 
group action that contribute to their evolutionary success. Core elements of ant 
colony structure such as reproductive and ergonomic division of labor, task 
specialization, and social integration are beginning to be understood in terms 
of cellular neuroanatomy and neurochemistry. In this review we discuss the 
neuroethology of colony organization by focusing on the role of biogenic amines 
in the control of social behavior in ants. We examine the role of 
neuromodulation in significant sociobiological characteristics of ants, 
including reproductive hierarchies, colony foundation, social food flow, 
nestmate recognition, territoriality, and size- and age-related sensory 
perception and task performance as well as the involvement of monoamines in 
collective intelligence, the ultimate key to the global dominance of these 
remarkable superorganisms. We conclude by suggesting future directions for the 
analysis of the aminergic regulation of behavior and social complexity in ants.

© 2013 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000356091
PMID: 24281765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1445. Psychol Med. 2014 Jul;44(10):2177-87. doi: 10.1017/S0033291713002663. Epub 2013 
Nov 28.

The one and the many: effects of the cell adhesion molecule pathway on 
neuropsychological function in psychosis.

Hargreaves A(1), Anney R(1), O'Dushlaine C(1), Nicodemus KK(1); Schizophrenia 
Psychiatric Genome-Wide Association Study Consortium (PGC-SCZ); Wellcome Trust 
Case Control Consortium 2; Gill M(1), Corvin A(1), Morris D(1), Donohoe G(1).

Author information:
(1)Neuropsychiatric Genetics Research Group, Department of Psychiatry, Institute 
of Molecular Medicine and Trinity College Institute of Neuroscience,Trinity 
College Dublin,Republic of Ireland.

BACKGROUND: Genetic studies of single gene variants have been criticized as 
providing a simplistic characterization of the genetic basis of illness risk 
that ignores the effects of other variants within the same biological pathways. 
Of candidate biological pathways for schizophrenia (SZ), the cell adhesion 
molecule (CAM) pathway has repeatedly been linked to both psychosis and 
neurocognitive dysfunction. Here we tested, using risk allele scores derived 
from the Schizophrenia Psychiatric Genome-Wide Association Study Consortium 
(PGC-SCZ), whether alleles within the CAM pathway were correlated with poorer 
neuropsychological function in patients.
METHOD: In total, 424 patients with psychosis were assessed in areas of 
cognitive ability typically found to be impaired in SZ: intelligence quotient, 
memory, working memory and attentional control. CAM pathway genes were 
identified using the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) database. 
Alleles within these genes identified as significantly associated with SZ risk 
in the PGC-SCZ were then used to calculate a CAM pathway-based polygenic risk 
allele score for each patient and these scores were tested for association with 
cognitive ability.
RESULTS: Increased CAM pathway polygenic risk scores were significantly 
associated with poorer performance on measures of memory and attention, 
explaining 1-3% of variation on these measures. Notably, the most strongly 
associated single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in the CAM pathway (rs9272105 
within HLA-DQA1) explained a similar amount of variance in attentional control, 
but not memory, as the polygenic risk analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: These data support a role for the CAM pathway in cognitive 
function, both at the level of individual SNPs and the wider pathway. In so 
doing these data highlight the value of pathway-based polygenic risk score 
studies as well as single gene studies for understanding SZ-associated deficits 
in cognition.

DOI: 10.1017/S0033291713002663
PMCID: PMC7050679
PMID: 24284030 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1446. Nat Commun. 2013;4:2878. doi: 10.1038/ncomms3878.

Abstract rule neurons in the endbrain support intelligent behaviour in corvid 
songbirds.

Veit L(1), Nieder A.

Author information:
(1)Animal Physiology, Institute of Neurobiology, University of Tübingen, 
Tübingen 72076, Germany.

Despite the lack of a layered neocortex and fundamental differences in endbrain 
organization in birds compared with mammals, intelligent species evolved from 
both vertebrate classes. Among birds, corvids show exceptional cognitive 
flexibility. Here we explore the neuronal foundation of corvid cognition by 
recording single-unit activity from an association area known as the nidopallium 
caudolaterale (NCL) while carrion crows make flexible rule-guided decisions, a 
hallmark of executive control functions. The most prevalent activity in NCL 
represents the behavioural rules, while abstracting over sample images and 
sensory modalities of the rule cues. Rule coding is weaker in error trials, thus 
predicting the crows' behavioural decisions. This suggests that the abstraction 
of general principles may be an important function of the NCL, mirroring the 
function of primate prefrontal cortex. These findings emphasize that 
intelligence in vertebrates does not necessarily rely on a neocortex but can be 
realized in endbrain circuitries that developed independently via convergent 
evolution.

DOI: 10.1038/ncomms3878
PMID: 24285080 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1447. Psychiatry J. 2013;2013:382126. doi: 10.1155/2013/382126. Epub 2012 Dec 26.

Cognitive Performance in Men and Women Infected with HIV-1.

Faílde Garrido JM(1), Lameiras Fernández M, Foltz M, Rodríguez Castro Y, Carrera 
Fernández MV.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Análisis e Intervención Psicosocioeducativa, Facultad de 
Ciencias de la Educación, Universidad de Vigo, Campus Universitario As Lagoas, 
Avenida Castelao s/n, 32004 Ourense, Spain.

Introduction. Very few studies have examined the neuropsychological performance 
of HIV-positive women, and even fewer have attempted a comparison of cognitive 
functioning by gender. The aim of this study was to describe the nature of the 
neuropsychological performance of HIV seropositive patients by gender. Methods. 
A clinical sample made up of 151 subjects was recruited to participate in this 
study. All of the subjects underwent the same assessment process, consisting of 
a neuropsychological evaluation and an interview to gather sociodemographic, 
toxicological, and clinical data. Results and Discussion. Despite the fact that 
men obtained higher scores in visual memory, attention/psychomotor speed, and 
abstract reasoning/verbal intelligence, these differences were not statistically 
significant. In contrast, significant differences were found depending on 
subjects' serological status. Seropositive participants' neuropsychological 
performance was significantly lower than that of the seronegative participants 
in all of the areas assessed as follows: (1) visual memory; (2) 
attention/psychomotor speed; (3) abstract reasoning/verbal intelligence; (4) 
verbal memory for texts; (5) verbal memory for digits and words. Conclusions. 
The results from this study reveal no significant gender differences in the 
cognitive performance of patients infected with HIV-1.

DOI: 10.1155/2013/382126
PMCID: PMC3839654
PMID: 24286066


1448. Med Ultrason. 2013 Dec;15(4):289-98. doi: 10.11152/mu.2013.2066.154.afb2.

Solid parotid tumors: an individual and integrative analysis of various 
ultrasonographic criteria. A prospective and observational study.

Badea AF(1), Bran S, Tamas-Szora A, Floareş A, Badea R, Baciut G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Maxillofacial Surgery,"Iuliu Hațieganu" University of Medicine 
and Pharmacy, Cluj-Napoca, Romania; Email: rbadea@umfcluj.ro.

OBJECTIVES: The purpose of the study is to identify and validate ultrasound 
criteria for parotid tumors evaluation, as well as to elaborate a multimodal, 
multi-criteria and integrative ultrasound approach for allowing tumor 
discrimination in a non-invasive manner.
MATERIAL AND METHOD: Twenty patients with solid parotid tumors (12 benign, 8 
malignant) were examined by ultrasound: real-time "grey scale" ultrasound, 
Doppler ultrasound, elastography, harmonic ultrasound imaging with i.v. contrast 
(CEUS). The study focused on tumor morphology and circulation. The analysis of 
the results was observational, enhanced by statistical methods and artificial 
intelligence (decision trees).
RESULTS: All malignant tumors showed increased hypoechogenicity, tumoral 
cervical adenopathies, increased stiffness and "in block" mobility with the 
parotid gland upon palpation with the transducer, uneven distribution of the 
contrast material during the arterial phase (8/8). To varying degrees, they 
showed imprecise delineation (7/8), structural heterogeneity (6/8) and 
disorganized flow pattern (6/8). All cases of benign tumors showed heterogeneous 
echostructure, clear delineation and no capsule (12). They also showed moderate 
hypoechogenicity (9/12), no cervical lymph nodes (11/12) and variable rigidity 
(increased 6/12; low 3/12). A selection and ranking of relevant ultrasound 
parameters was also made. Some of them were included in a transparent and 
easy-to-use decision tree model with 100% data accuracy.
CONCLUSIONS: The characterization and discrimination of solid parotid tumors 
require a multimodal and multicriteria approach. Ultrasound criteria can be 
divided into criteria of certainty and criteria of diagnosis probability. CEUS 
examination of parotid tumors did not reveal significant differences between 
benign and malignant circulatory bed. Decision trees discovered by artificial 
intelligence from the data may represent intelligent diagnosis support systems 
with very high accuracy, up to 100%.

DOI: 10.11152/mu.2013.2066.154.afb2
PMID: 24286093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1449. ScientificWorldJournal. 2013 Oct 30;2013:261236. doi: 10.1155/2013/261236. 
eCollection 2013.

Intelligence deficits in Chinese patients with brain tumor: the impact of tumor 
resection.

Shen C(1), Xie R, Cao X, Bao W, Yang B, Mao Y, Gao C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Huashan Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai 
200040, China.

BACKGROUND: Intelligence is much important for brain tumor patients after their 
operation, while the reports about surgical related intelligence deficits are 
not frequent. It is not only theoretically important but also meaningful for 
clinical practice.
METHODS: Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale was employed to evaluate the 
intelligence of 103 patients with intracranial tumor and to compare the 
intelligence quotient (IQ), verbal IQ (VIQ), and performance IQ (PIQ) between 
the intracerebral and extracerebral subgroups.
RESULTS: Although preoperative intelligence deficits appeared in all subgroups, 
IQ, VIQ, and PIQ were not found to have any significant difference between the 
intracerebral and extracerebral subgroups, but with VIQ lower than PIQ in all 
the subgroups. An immediate postoperative follow-up demonstrated a decline of IQ 
and PIQ in the extracerebral subgroup, but an improvement of VIQ in the right 
intracerebral subgroup. Pituitary adenoma resection exerted no effect on 
intelligence. In addition, age, years of education, and tumor size were found to 
play important roles.
CONCLUSIONS: Brain tumors will impair IQ, VIQ, and PIQ. The extracerebral tumor 
resection can deteriorate IQ and PIQ. However, right intracerebral tumor 
resection is beneficial to VIQ, and transsphenoidal pituitary adenoma resection 
performs no effect on intelligence.

DOI: 10.1155/2013/261236
PMCID: PMC3832967
PMID: 24288472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1450. Educ Psychol (Lond). 2013 Dec;33(7):862-883. doi: 10.1080/01443410.2013.785052. 
Epub 2013 May 7.

Effects of an emotional literacy intervention for students identified with 
bullying behaviour.

Knowler C(1), Frederickson N(2).

Author information:
(1)Milton Kaynes Council, Educational Psychology Service, Milton Keynes, UK.
(2)UCL, London, UK.

The effectiveness of a 12-week, small group emotional literacy (EL) intervention 
in reducing bullying behaviour in school was evaluated. Participants were 50 
primary school pupils identified through peer nomination as engaging in bullying 
behaviours. The intervention was implemented in schools already engaged with a 
universal social and emotional learning initiative, including an anti-bullying 
component. Within schools, participants were randomly assigned to an 
intervention or a wait-list comparison group. Response to the intervention was 
found to be dependent on baseline levels of EL. Only children whose baseline 
level was low showed a significant reduction in peer-rated bullying behaviour. 
No effect of the intervention was detected on victimisation or adjustment 
scores, although positive changes in adjustment were associated with increased 
EL.

DOI: 10.1080/01443410.2013.785052
PMCID: PMC4579054
PMID: 26494932


1451. Trends Psychiatry Psychother. 2013 Dec;35(4):299-303. doi: 
10.1590/2237-6089-2013-0023. Epub 2013 Dec 1.

Neuropsychological assessment before and after radiotherapy in a child with an 
intracranial tumor: case report.

Lopes AP(1), Teldeschi AL(2), Miele F(2), Mesquita C(1), Borges MC(1), Coutinho 
G(1), Mattos P(1).

Author information:
(1)Centro de Neuropsicologia Aplicada, Instituto D'Or de Pesquisa e Ensino, Rio 
de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil.
(2)CNA, IDOR, Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil.

INTRODUCTION: Brain tumors are the most common solid tumors and the second 
largest group of neoplasms diagnosed in childhood. Treatment includes surgery, 
radiotherapy, and chemotherapy. However, radiotherapy can cause complications, 
e.g., cognitive deficits.
CASE DESCRIPTION: We describe the case of a child diagnosed with a brain tumor 
evaluated before and after radiotherapy to investigate cognitive decline after 
treatment. The results showed a decline in Intelligence Quotient (IQ) scores and 
reversal of the predominance of verbal and nonverbal skills. After radiotherapy, 
the subject showed slowness, academic deficits, and difficulties learning new 
information.
COMMENTS: Even though the post-treatment evaluation showed scores compatible 
with the average, comparison between pre- and post-treatment evaluations 
demonstrated the impact of radiotherapy on the subject's cognitive profile. 
These results highlight the importance of evaluating patients who undergo 
radiotherapy before and after treatment and understanding neuropsychological 
scores associated with the subjects' complaints.

DOI: 10.1590/2237-6089-2013-0023
PMID: 27000477


1452. Hum Mov Sci. 2014 Feb;33:284-97. doi: 10.1016/j.humov.2013.08.011. Epub 2013 Nov 
28.

The relation between cognitive and motor performance and their relevance for 
children's transition to school: a latent variable approach.

Roebers CM(1), Röthlisberger M(2), Neuenschwander R(2), Cimeli P(2), Michel 
E(2), Jäger K(2).

Author information:
(1)Center for Cognition, Learning, and Memory, University of Bern, Switzerland. 
Electronic address: roebers@psy.unibe.ch.
(2)Center for Cognition, Learning, and Memory, University of Bern, Switzerland.

Both theoretically and empirically there is a continuous interest in 
understanding the specific relation between cognitive and motor development in 
childhood. In the present longitudinal study including three measurement points, 
this relation was targeted. At the beginning of the study, the participating 
children were 5-6-year-olds. By assessing participants' fine motor skills, their 
executive functioning, and their non-verbal intelligence, their cross-sectional 
and cross-lagged interrelations were examined. Additionally, performance in 
these three areas was used to predict early school achievement (in terms of 
mathematics, reading, and spelling) at the end of participants' first grade. 
Correlational analyses and structural equation modeling revealed that fine motor 
skills, non-verbal intelligence and executive functioning were significantly 
interrelated. Both fine motor skills and intelligence had significant links to 
later school achievement. However, when executive functioning was additionally 
included into the prediction of early academic achievement, fine motor skills 
and non-verbal intelligence were no longer significantly associated with later 
school performance suggesting that executive functioning plays an important role 
for the motor-cognitive performance link.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.humov.2013.08.011
PMID: 24289983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1453. Comput Biol Med. 2013 Dec;43(12):2053-62. doi: 10.1016/j.compbiomed.2013.09.027. 
Epub 2013 Oct 7.

Support vector machine algorithms in the search of KIR gene associations with 
disease.

Cuevas Tello JC(1), Hernández-Ramírez D, García-Sepúlveda CA.

Author information:
(1)Facultad de Ingeniería, Universidad Autónoma de San Luis Potosí. Av. Dr. 
Manuel Nava No. 8, Zona Universitaria, ZC 78290, San Luis Potosí, México.

Killer-cell immunoglobulin-like receptors (KIR) are membrane proteins expressed 
by natural killer cells and CD8 lymphocytes. The KIR system consists of 17 genes 
and 614 alleles, some of which bind human leukocyte antigens (HLA). Both KIR and 
HLA modulate susceptibility to haematological malignancies, viral infections and 
autoimmune diseases. Molecular epidemiology studies employ traditional 
statistical methods to identify links between KIR genes and disease. Here we 
describe our results at applying artificial intelligence algorithms (support 
vector machines) to identify associations between KIR genes and disease. We 
demonstrate that these algorithms are capable of classifying samples into 
healthy and diseased groups based solely on KIR genotype with potential use in 
clinical decision support systems.

© 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.compbiomed.2013.09.027
PMID: 24290921 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1454. Gene. 2014 Feb 15;536(1):145-50. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2013.11.029. Epub 2013 Nov 
27.

Array CGH analysis of a cohort of Russian patients with intellectual disability.

Kashevarova AA(1), Nazarenko LP(2), Skryabin NA(2), Salyukova OA(2), Chechetkina 
NN(2), Tolmacheva EN(2), Sazhenova EA(2), Magini P(3), Graziano C(3), Romeo 
G(3), Kučinskas V(4), Lebedev IN(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Medical Genetics, Tomsk, Russia. Electronic address: 
anna.kashevarova@medgenetics.ru.
(2)Institute of Medical Genetics, Tomsk, Russia.
(3)University of Bologna, Bologna, Italy.
(4)Vilnius University, Department of Human and Medical Genetics, Vilnius, 
Lithuania.

The use of array comparative genomic hybridization (array CGH) as a diagnostic 
tool in molecular genetics has facilitated the identification of many new 
microdeletion/microduplication syndromes (MMSs). Furthermore, this method has 
allowed for the identification of copy number variations (CNVs) whose pathogenic 
role has yet to be uncovered. Here, we report on our application of array CGH 
for the identification of pathogenic CNVs in 79 Russian children with 
intellectual disability (ID). Twenty-six pathogenic or likely pathogenic changes 
in copy number were detected in 22 patients (28%): 8 CNVs corresponded to known 
MMSs, and 17 were not associated with previously described syndromes. In this 
report, we describe our findings and comment on genes potentially associated 
with ID that are located within the CNV regions.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2013.11.029
PMID: 24291026 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1455. Neuroimage. 2014 Mar;88:181-7. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2013.11.035. Epub 2013 
Nov 27.

The SEMA5A gene is associated with hippocampal volume, and their interaction is 
associated with performance on Raven's Progressive Matrices.

Zhu B(1), Chen C(2), Xue G(1), Moyzis RK(3), Dong Q(4), Chen C(5), Li J(5), He 
Q(5), Lei X(5), Wang Y(5), Lin C(5).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Cognitive Neuroscience and Learning & IDG/McGovern 
Institute for Brain Research, Beijing Normal University, Beijing, China; Center 
for Collaboration and Innovation in Brain and Learning Sciences, Beijing Normal 
University, Beijing, China.
(2)Department of Psychology and Social Behavior, University of California, 
Irvine, CA, USA. Electronic address: cschen@uci.edu.
(3)Department of Biological Chemistry and Institute of Genomics and 
Bioinformatics, University of California, Irvine, CA, USA.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Cognitive Neuroscience and Learning & IDG/McGovern 
Institute for Brain Research, Beijing Normal University, Beijing, China; Center 
for Collaboration and Innovation in Brain and Learning Sciences, Beijing Normal 
University, Beijing, China. Electronic address: psydongqi@126.com.
(5)State Key Laboratory of Cognitive Neuroscience and Learning & IDG/McGovern 
Institute for Brain Research, Beijing Normal University, Beijing, China.

The Allen Brain Atlas shows that the semaphorin 5A (SEMA5A) gene, which encodes 
an important protein for neurogenesis and neuronal apoptosis, is predominantly 
expressed in the human hippocampus. Structural and functional neuroimaging 
studies have further shown that the hippocampus plays an important role in the 
performance on Raven's Progressive Matrices (RPM), a measure of reasoning 
ability and general fluid intelligence. Thus far, however, no study has examined 
the relationships between the SEMA5A gene polymorphism, hippocampal volume, and 
RPM performance. The current study collected both structural MRI, genetic, and 
behavioral data in 329 healthy Chinese adults, and examined associations between 
SEMA5A variants, hippocampal volume, and performance on RAPM (the advanced form 
of RPM). After controlling for intracranial volume (ICV), sex, and age, SEMA5A 
genetic polymorphism at the SNP rs42352 had the strongest association with 
hippocampal volume (p=0.00000552 and 0.000103 for right and left hippocampal 
volumes, respectively), with TT homozygotes having higher hippocampal volume 
than the other genotypes. Furthermore, there was a high correlation between 
right hippocampal volume and RAPM performance (r=0.42, p=0.0000509) for SEMA5A 
rs42352 TT homozygotes. This study provides the first evidence for the 
involvement of the SEMA5A gene in hippocampal structure and their interaction on 
RAPM performance. Future studies of the hippocampus-RPM associations should 
consider genetic factors as potential moderators.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2013.11.035
PMID: 24291503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1456. Epilepsy Behav. 2014 Feb;31:15-8. doi: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2013.10.028. Epub 2013 
Nov 26.

Correlation between interictal cerebral glucose hypometabolism and IQ in 
children with epilepsy.

Tang Z(1), Chen Z(2), Zhai Q(3), Hao Y(2), Zhang Y(2), Zeng X(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Guangdong General Hospital, Guangdong Academy of 
Medical Sciences, Guangdong Neuroscience Institute, China; Southern Medical 
University, Guangdong Province, China.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, Guangdong General Hospital, Guangdong Academy of 
Medical Sciences, Guangdong Neuroscience Institute, China.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, Guangdong General Hospital, Guangdong Academy of 
Medical Sciences, Guangdong Neuroscience Institute, China. Electronic address: 
zhaiqiongxiang@sina.com.

The aim of this study was to understand the relationship between IQ and glucose 
metabolism in brain cells in a wide variety of subjects with epilepsy. The study 
participants were 78 children with epilepsy and 15 healthy children for 
comparison. All participants were administered the Chinese Wechsler Intelligence 
Scale for Children (C-WISC). The verbal intelligence quotient (VIQ), performance 
intelligence quotient (PIQ), and full-scale intelligence quotient (FIQ) were 
compared between children with epilepsy and typically developing children. 
Seventy-eight patients underwent interictal positron emission computed 
tomography (PET) using 2-deoxy-2[(18)F]fluoro-d-glucose (FDG) as the tracer for 
evaluating brain glucose metabolism. Verbal intelligence quotient, PIQ, and FIQ 
based on the C-WISC were significantly lower in children with epilepsy than 
those in the healthy comparison group (P<0.001, P=0.001, and P<0.001, 
respectively). The IQ of patients with normal metabolism, unifocal abnormal 
hypometabolism, and multifocal abnormal hypometabolism determined by PET 
differed significantly. The extent of the abnormal hypometabolism was negatively 
correlated with the FIQ (rs=-0.549, P<0.001). In patients with lateralized 
hypometabolism based on PET, the VIQ/PIQ discrepancy scores (|VIQ-PIQ|≥15 
points) differed significantly between the left hemisphere abnormal 
hypometabolism and right hemisphere abnormal hypometabolism subgroups, with 
negative values in the left and positive values in the right subgroups 
(P=0.004). In conclusion, brain metabolic abnormalities are correlated with IQ, 
and performing interictal PET along with C-WISC can better assess the extent of 
severity of cognitive impairment and VIQ/PIQ discrepancy.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2013.10.028
PMID: 24291524 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1457. Brain. 2014 Jan;137(Pt 1):277-87. doi: 10.1093/brain/awt312. Epub 2013 Nov 29.

Neural mechanisms of discourse comprehension: a human lesion study.

Barbey AK(1), Colom R, Grafman J.

Author information:
(1)1 Decision Neuroscience Laboratory, University of Illinois, Urbana, IL, USA.

Discourse comprehension is a hallmark of human social behaviour and refers to 
the act of interpreting a written or spoken message by constructing mental 
representations that integrate incoming language with prior knowledge and 
experience. Here, we report a human lesion study (n = 145) that investigates the 
neural mechanisms underlying discourse comprehension (measured by the Discourse 
Comprehension Test) and systematically examine its relation to a broad range of 
psychological factors, including psychometric intelligence (measured by the 
Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale), emotional intelligence (measured by the 
Mayer, Salovey, Caruso Emotional Intelligence Test), and personality traits 
(measured by the Neuroticism-Extraversion-Openness Personality Inventory). 
Scores obtained from these factors were submitted to voxel-based lesion-symptom 
mapping to elucidate their neural substrates. Stepwise regression analyses 
revealed that working memory and extraversion reliably predict individual 
differences in discourse comprehension: higher working memory scores and lower 
extraversion levels predict better discourse comprehension performance. Lesion 
mapping results indicated that these convergent variables depend on a shared 
network of frontal and parietal regions, including white matter association 
tracts that bind these areas into a coordinated system. The observed findings 
motivate an integrative framework for understanding the neural foundations of 
discourse comprehension, suggesting that core elements of discourse processing 
emerge from a distributed network of brain regions that support specific 
competencies for executive and social function.

DOI: 10.1093/brain/awt312
PMCID: PMC3954106
PMID: 24293267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1458. J Child Neurol. 2014 Oct;29(10):1370-6. doi: 10.1177/0883073813508315. Epub 2013 
Nov 28.

Neuropsychological findings in childhood narcolepsy.

Posar A(1), Pizza F(2), Parmeggiani A(3), Plazzi G(2).

Author information:
(1)IRCCS Institute of Neurological Sciences of Bologna, Italy Department of 
Biomedical and Neuromotor Sciences, University of Bologna, Italy 
annio.posar@unibo.it.
(2)IRCCS Institute of Neurological Sciences of Bologna, Italy Department of 
Biomedical and Neuromotor Sciences, University of Bologna, Italy.
(3)IRCCS Institute of Neurological Sciences of Bologna, Italy Department of 
Medical and Surgical Sciences, University of Bologna, Italy.

Narcolepsy with cataplexy is a severely disabling disorder very often arising in 
childhood. Data on neuropsychological impairment in children are scant. We 
administered standardized neuropsychological tests to 13 children with 
narcolepsy with cataplexy. Overall, our patients displayed multiple patterns of 
cognitive and behavioral dysfunction, and often academic failure (7 cases out of 
13). All children had a normal full intelligence quotient (IQ), but 3 patients 
presented a significantly higher and 2 a significantly lower Verbal IQ compared 
to Performance IQ, respectively. Mean sleep latency was significantly correlated 
(P < .05) to alertness functions. Eight patients displayed behavioral problems: 
emotional symptoms and conduct problems prevailed. Childhood narcolepsy with 
cataplexy represents a risk factor for subtle and heterogeneous cognitive 
impairments potentially resulting in academic failure, despite the normal IQ. 
These children also have a certain psychopathological risk. All this seems to be 
at least partially detached from the direct effects of daytime sleepiness.

© The Author(s) 2013.

DOI: 10.1177/0883073813508315
PMID: 24293310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1459. J Clin Exp Neuropsychol. 2013;35(10):1094-107. doi: 
10.1080/13803395.2013.858661.

Executive functioning in obstructive sleep apnea syndrome patients without 
comorbidities: focus on the fractionation of executive functions.

Borges JG(1), Ginani GE, Hachul H, Cintra FD, Tufik S, Pompéia S.

Author information:
(1)a Departamento de Psicobiologia , Universidade Federal de São Paulo-UNIFESP , 
São Paulo , Brazil.

PURPOSE: Obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS) is associated with impaired 
cognition, especially executive functions. However, various of its comorbid 
conditions are also known to cause cognitive impairment, so it is unclear 
whether OSAS itself is responsible for cognitive deficits. Our aim was to 
determine the effects of OSAS on executive functions in otherwise healthy 
patients.
METHOD: This was a parallel group design study, which involved 22 patients aged 
36-65 years diagnosed with moderate to severe OSAS, whose body mass index was 
below 26, and who did not have diabetes, hypertension, or depression. Controls 
were 22 healthy individuals with similar age, gender, intelligence quotient, and 
schooling to those of the patients. Participants completed a test battery that 
included measures of 6 distinct executive domains (shifting, inhibition, 
updating, dual-task performance, planning, and access to long-term memory), of 
all subsystems of the multiple-component working memory model, attention, and 
mood.
RESULTS: OSAS and controls were equivalent in all demographic variables and test 
scores. The apnea-hypopnea index did not significantly correlate with executive 
performance, but mean oxygen saturation did so with measurements of executive 
shifting and access to long-term memory.
CONCLUSIONS: OSAS without comorbidities did not lead to cognitive impairment.

DOI: 10.1080/13803395.2013.858661
PMID: 24295424 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1460. Int J Law Psychiatry. 2014 May-Jun;37(3):238-44. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijlp.2013.11.018. Epub 2013 Dec 2.

Psychopathy, intelligence, and impulsivity in German violent offenders.

de Tribolet-Hardy F(1), Vohs K(2), Mokros A(2), Habermeyer E(2).

Author information:
(1)Department for Forensic Psychiatry, University Hospital of Psychiatry, 
Zurich, Switzerland. Electronic address: fanny.detribolet@puk.zh.ch.
(2)Department for Forensic Psychiatry, University Hospital of Psychiatry, 
Zurich, Switzerland.

Previous studies have reported numerous correlations between psychopathy and 
various personality traits, behavioural tendencies or clinical characteristics. 
The present study examined in greater depth the relationships between the 
components of psychopathy as measured by the Psychopathy Checklist-Revised 
(PCL-R) and intelligence as well as impulsivity. A total of ninety male violent 
offenders were recruited from a prison and a forensic-psychiatric hospital in 
Germany. All of the subjects were assessed using the PCL-R, the Barratt 
Impulsiveness Scale (BIS-11), and a short version of the German Wechsler Adult 
Intelligence Scale (WIP). As expected, a canonical correlation analysis showed a 
negative association between spatial intelligence and the Factor 2 subtotal on 
the PCL-R (reckless lifestyle/antisociality). In addition, our results agreed 
with the assumption of an association between impulsivity and the subtotal for 
PCL-R Factor 2. The positive relationship between verbal intelligence and the 
subtotal for Factor 1 of the PCL-R (insincere, manipulative conduct/affective 
deficits) vanished after controlling for educational level. The results indicate 
that there is a relationship between the spatial components of intelligence and 
the concept of psychopathy as described by Hare. This result supports the 
spatial impairment aetiological model of antisocial behaviour.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijlp.2013.11.018
PMID: 24295537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1461. Biosystems. 2014 Feb;116:1-9. doi: 10.1016/j.biosystems.2013.11.002. Epub 2013 
Dec 1.

Cognitively inspired reinforcement learning architecture and its application to 
giant-swing motion control.

Uragami D(1), Takahashi T(2), Matsuo Y(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Computer Science, Tokyo University of Technology, Katakuramachi, 
Hachioji City, Tokyo 192-0982, Japan. Electronic address: dduragami@gmail.com.
(2)School of Science and Technology, Tokyo Denki University, Hatoyama, Hiki, 
Saitama 350-0394, Japan. Electronic address: tatsujitakahashi@mac.com.
(3)School of Computer Science, Tokyo University of Technology, Katakuramachi, 
Hachioji City, Tokyo 192-0982, Japan. Electronic address: matsuo@stf.teu.ac.jp.

Many algorithms and methods in artificial intelligence or machine learning were 
inspired by human cognition. As a mechanism to handle the 
exploration-exploitation dilemma in reinforcement learning, the loosely 
symmetric (LS) value function that models causal intuition of humans was 
proposed (Shinohara et al., 2007). While LS shows the highest correlation with 
causal induction by humans, it has been reported that it effectively works in 
multi-armed bandit problems that form the simplest class of tasks representing 
the dilemma. However, the scope of application of LS was limited to the 
reinforcement learning problems that have K actions with only one state (K-armed 
bandit problems). This study proposes LS-Q learning architecture that can deal 
with general reinforcement learning tasks with multiple states and delayed 
reward. We tested the learning performance of the new architecture in 
giant-swing robot motion learning, where uncertainty and unknown-ness of the 
environment is huge. In the test, the help of ready-made internal models or 
functional approximation of the state space were not given. The simulations 
showed that while the ordinary Q-learning agent does not reach giant-swing 
motion because of stagnant loops (local optima with low rewards), LS-Q escapes 
such loops and acquires giant-swing. It is confirmed that the smaller number of 
states is, in other words, the more coarse-grained the division of states and 
the more incomplete the state observation is, the better LS-Q performs in 
comparison with Q-learning. We also showed that the high performance of LS-Q 
depends comparatively little on parameter tuning and learning time. This 
suggests that the proposed method inspired by human cognition works adaptively 
in real environments.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biosystems.2013.11.002
PMID: 24296286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1462. Comput Intell Neurosci. 2013;2013:921695. doi: 10.1155/2013/921695. Epub 2013 
Nov 5.

A functional model of sensemaking in a neurocognitive architecture.

Lebiere C(1), Pirolli P, Thomson R, Paik J, Rutledge-Taylor M, Staszewski J, 
Anderson JR.

Author information:
(1)Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213, USA.

Sensemaking is the active process of constructing a meaningful representation 
(i.e., making sense) of some complex aspect of the world. In relation to 
intelligence analysis, sensemaking is the act of finding and interpreting 
relevant facts amongst the sea of incoming reports, images, and intelligence. We 
present a cognitive model of core information-foraging and hypothesis-updating 
sensemaking processes applied to complex spatial probability estimation and 
decision-making tasks. While the model was developed in a hybrid 
symbolic-statistical cognitive architecture, its correspondence to neural 
frameworks in terms of both structure and mechanisms provided a direct bridge 
between rational and neural levels of description. Compared against data from 
two participant groups, the model correctly predicted both the presence and 
degree of four biases: confirmation, anchoring and adjustment, 
representativeness, and probability matching. It also favorably predicted human 
performance in generating probability distributions across categories, assigning 
resources based on these distributions, and selecting relevant features given a 
prior probability distribution. This model provides a constrained theoretical 
framework describing cognitive biases as arising from three interacting factors: 
the structure of the task environment, the mechanisms and limitations of the 
cognitive architecture, and the use of strategies to adapt to the dual 
constraints of cognition and the environment.

DOI: 10.1155/2013/921695
PMCID: PMC3835765
PMID: 24302930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1463. J Genet Psychol. 2013 Sep-Dec;174(5-6):664-76. doi: 
10.1080/00221325.2013.772501.

Gender, g, gender identity concepts, and self-constructs as predictors of the 
self-estimated IQ.

Storek J(1), Furnham A.

Author information:
(1)University College London, Research Department of Clinical, Educational and 
Health Psychology, 26 Bedford Way, London WC1H 0AP, United Kingdom.

In all 102 participants completed 2 intelligence tests, a self-estimated 
domain-masculine (DMIQ) intelligence rating (which is a composite of self-rated 
mathematical-logical and spatial intelligence), a measure of self-esteem, and of 
self-control. The aim was to confirm and extend previous findings about the role 
of general intelligence and gender identity in self-assessed intelligence. It 
aimed to examine further correlates of the Hubris-Humility Effect that shows men 
believe they are more intelligent than women. The DMIQ scores were correlated 
significantly with gender, psychometrically assessed IQ, and masculinity but not 
self-esteem or self-control. Stepwise regressions indicated that gender and 
gender role were the strongest predictors of DMIQ accounting for a third of the 
variance.

DOI: 10.1080/00221325.2013.772501
PMCID: PMC4118943
PMID: 24303578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1464. Fa Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2013 Jun;29(3):216-21.

[Statistical prediction methods in violence risk assessment and its 
application].

[Article in Chinese]

Liu YY(1), Hu JM, Yang M, Li XS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Statistics, School of Public Health, Sichuan University, 
Chengdu 610041, China.

It is an urgent global problem how to improve the violence risk assessment. As a 
necessary part of risk assessment, statistical methods have remarkable impacts 
and effects. In this study, the predicted methods in violence risk assessment 
from the point of statistics are reviewed. The application of Logistic 
regression as the sample of multivariate statistical model, decision tree model 
as the sample of data mining technique, and neural networks model as the sample 
of artificial intelligence technology are all reviewed. This study provides data 
in order to contribute the further research of violence risk assessment.

PMID: 24303769 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1465. Epilepsia. 2013 Dec;54(12):2116-24. doi: 10.1111/epi.12428. Epub 2013 Nov 8.

Neurobehavioral comorbidities of pediatric epilepsies are linked to thalamic 
structural abnormalities.

Lin JJ(1), Siddarth P, Riley JD, Gurbani SG, Ly R, Yee VW, Levitt JG, Toga AW, 
Caplan R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of California Irvine, Irvine, California, 
U.S.A.

PURPOSE: Neurobehavioral comorbidities are common in pediatric epilepsy with 
enduring adverse effects on functioning, but their neuroanatomic underpinning is 
unclear. Striatal and thalamic abnormalities have been associated with 
childhood-onset epilepsies, suggesting that epilepsy-related changes in the 
subcortical circuit might be associated with the comorbidities of children with 
epilepsy. We aimed to compare subcortical volumes and their relationship with 
age in children with complex partial seizures (CPS), childhood absence epilepsy 
(CAE), and healthy controls (HC). We examined the shared versus unique 
structural-functional relationships of these volumes with behavior problems, 
intelligence, language, peer interaction, and epilepsy variables in these two 
epilepsy syndromes.
METHODS: We investigated volumetric differences of caudate, putamen, pallidum, 
and thalamus in children with CPS (N = 21), CAE (N = 20), and HC (N = 27). Study 
subjects underwent structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), intelligence, 
and language testing. Parent-completed Child Behavior Checklists provided 
behavior problem and peer interaction scores. We examined the association of 
age, intelligence quotient (IQ), language, behavioral problems, and epilepsy 
variables with subcortical volumes that were significantly different between the 
children with epilepsy and HC.
KEY FINDINGS: Both children with CPS and CAE exhibited significantly smaller 
left thalamic volume compared to HC. In terms of developmental trajectory, 
greater thalamic volume was significantly correlated with increasing age in 
children with CPS and CAE but not in HC. With regard to the comorbidities, 
reduced left thalamic volumes were related to more social problems in children 
with CPS and CAE. Smaller left thalamic volumes in children with CPS were also 
associated with poor attention, lower IQ and language scores, and impaired peer 
interaction.
SIGNIFICANCE: Our study is the first to directly compare and detect shared 
thalamic structural abnormalities in children with CPS and CAE. These findings 
highlight the vulnerability of the thalamus and provide important new insights 
on its possible role in the neurobehavioral comorbidities of childhood-onset 
epilepsy.

Wiley Periodicals, Inc. © 2013 International League Against Epilepsy.

DOI: 10.1111/epi.12428
PMCID: PMC4259153
PMID: 24304435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure The authors have no conflicts of 
interests. We confirm that we have read the Journal’s position on issues 
involved in ethical publication and affirm that this report is consistent with 
those guidelines.


1466. Epilepsia. 2013 Dec;54(12):2214-8. doi: 10.1111/epi.12425. Epub 2013 Oct 28.

Dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumors: a model for examining the effects of 
pathology versus seizures on cognitive dysfunction in epilepsy.

Baxendale S(1), Donnachie E, Thompson P, Sander JW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical and Experimental Epilepsy, UCL Institute of Neurology, 
NIHR University College London Hospitals Biomedical Research Centre, London, 
United Kingdom.

PURPOSE: Dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumors (DNTs) provide a unique model 
for studying the effects of seizures on cognitive development. Epilepsy and 
antiepileptic medications are prominent features in the lives and schooling of 
people who develop seizures in childhood. People with an adult onset share the 
same underlying brain pathology, but their childhood development is unaffected 
by seizures. Therefore, DNTs provide a model to examine the specific influence 
of seizures and their treatment on cognitive development, over and above the 
effects of the underlying pathology in epilepsy.
METHODS: We examined the neuropsychological characteristics of 56 adults with 
DNT and medically intractable epilepsy (mean age 32.7 years). Twenty-two adults 
(39%) had an age of onset of epilepsy before the age of 12 years 
(childhood-onset group). Scores on tests of intelligence (Verbal IQ and 
Performance IQ), reading, working memory, verbal learning, verbal recall, visual 
learning, and expressive and receptive language ability were analyzed.
KEY FINDINGS: There were no significant localization effects (right vs. left vs. 
extratemporal) on any of the neuropsychological test scores. In the group as a 
whole, the neuropsychological test scores were significantly lower than healthy, 
age-matched controls on measures of Verbal IQ (p < 0.01), naming p < 0.01, 
verbal learning (p < 0.01), and working memory (p < 0.05). The childhood-onset 
group had significantly lower scores on the measures of Verbal IQ (p < 0.01), 
Performance IQ (p < 0.05), reading (p < 0.05), naming (p = 0.05), and verbal 
retention (p < 0.05) than those with an onset of seizures at the age of 12 or 
older.
SIGNIFICANCE: The traditional pattern of lateralized memory deficits seen in 
people with hippocampal sclerosis may not be present in people with temporal 
lobe epilepsy associated with a DNT. The presence of seizures and their 
treatment in early childhood may adversely influence the development of these 
core cognitive abilities, resulting in patterns of cognitive deficits that 
remain apparent in adulthood.

Wiley Periodicals, Inc. © 2013 International League Against Epilepsy.

DOI: 10.1111/epi.12425
PMCID: PMC4209113
PMID: 24304439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1467. BMC Psychiatry. 2013 Dec 4;13:330. doi: 10.1186/1471-244X-13-330.

Long-term effects of stimulants on neurocognitive performance of Taiwanese 
children with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder.

Tsai CS, Huang YS(1), Wu CL, Hwang FM, Young KB, Tsai MH, Chu SM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Child Psychiatry, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital and University, 
Linkou, Taiwan. hu1109s@yahoo.com.tw.

BACKGROUND: Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a common 
behavioral and neurocognitive disorder in school-age children. Methylphenidate 
(MPH) is the most frequently prescribed CNS stimulant for ADHD. The aim of this 
study is to evaluate the changes in intelligence quotient and domains of 
neurocognitive function after long-term MPH treatment of Taiwanese children with 
ADHD.
METHODS: The Wechsler Intelligence Scale (WISC-III) was administrated twice at 
an interval of at least one year for all 171 subjects (6-12 years) and 47 age- 
and gender-matched children without ADHD. The ADHD-Rating scale and Clinical 
Global Impression-Severity (CGI-S) were also used at the time of enrolment, and 
at 6 months and one year later.
RESULTS: Taiwanese children with ADHD had lower Verbal IQ (VIQ) and Full IQ 
(FIQ) and performed poorly on several subtests of the WISC-III, including 
Similarities, Vocabulary, and Coding, compared to healthy children without ADHD. 
After one year of MPH treatment, significant decrements in all scores of the 
ADHD-Rating scale and CGI-S and increments in several domains of the WISC-III, 
including FIQ, VIQ, PIQ, Perceptual Organization Index (POI), Picture 
Completion, Picture Arrangement, Object Assembly, and Digit Span were observed. 
When the ADHD children under MPH treatment were subdivided into two age groups 
(6-8 years and 9-12 years), significantly better performance in some subtests 
and subscales of the WISC-III (such as Similarities, Comprehension, and Object 
assembly) was found in the 6-8 years age group.
CONCLUSIONS: Long-term MPH treatment may improve the neurocognitive profiles of 
the ADHD children, as seen in their performance in several subtests and in the 
IQ scores on the WISC-III. And this improvement had no correlation with the 
decrement of ADHD symptoms. Starting stimulant treatment at as young an age as 
possible is advised due to the greater benefits in the 6-8 years age group, as 
seen in this study. More research in this area is also needed to confirm these 
results.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-244X-13-330
PMCID: PMC4235029
PMID: 24305033 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1468. Int J Eat Disord. 2014 May;47(4):431-6. doi: 10.1002/eat.22231. Epub 2013 Nov 
28.

Bulimia nervosa patient diagnosed with previously unsuspected ADHD in adulthood: 
clinical case report, literature review, and diagnostic challenges.

Ioannidis K(1), Serfontein J, Müller U.

Author information:
(1)Cambridgeshire and Peterborough NHS Foundation Trust, Cambridge, United 
Kingdom.

There is increasing literature suggesting a link between attention-deficit 
hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and eating disorders (EDs), especially bulimia 
nervosa. ADHD is under-diagnosed in girls and children of high intelligence are 
typically missed. We identified a case of a 23-year-old woman suffering from 
severe bulimia nervosa and previously unsuspected ADHD in adulthood; we 
diagnosed and treated her with extended-release methylphenidate. We performed a 
literature review on the ADHD and bulimia nervosa comorbidity. We discuss the 
reasons why her ADHD remained undiagnosed and the difficulties in diagnosing 
ADHD in patients with EDs. We suggest that identifying comorbid ADHD is crucial 
for these patients and argue for the use of a structured interview, collateral 
history and investigation of onset of symptoms to establish a diagnosis of ADHD 
in adults with bulimia nervosa. Comorbidities and overlap of symptomatology need 
to be taken into account.

Copyright © 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/eat.22231
PMID: 24311027 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1469. PLoS One. 2013 Nov 27;8(11):e80772. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0080772. 
eCollection 2013.

Planning steps forward in development: in girls earlier than in boys.

Unterrainer JM(1), Ruh N, Loosli SV, Heinze K, Rahm B, Kaller CP.

Author information:
(1)Medical Psychology and Medical Sociology, University Medical Center Mainz, 
Mainz, Germany.

The development of planning ability in children initially aged four and five was 
examined longitudinally with a retest-interval of 12 months using the Tower of 
London task. As expected, problems to solve straightforward without mental 
look-ahead were mastered by most, even the youngest children. Problems demanding 
look-ahead were more difficult and accuracy improved significantly with age and 
over time. This development was strongly moderated by sex: In contrast to coeval 
boys, four year old girls showed an impressive performance enhancement at age 
five, reaching the performance of six year olds, whereas four year old boys 
lagged behind and caught up with girls at the age of six, the typical age of 
school enrollment. This sex-specific development of planning was clearly 
separated from overall intelligence: young boys showed a steeper increase in raw 
intelligence scores than girls, whereas in the older groups scores developed 
similarly. The observed sex differences in planning development are evident even 
within a narrow time window of twelve months and may relate to differences in 
maturational trajectories for girls and boys in dorsolateral prefrontal cortex.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0080772
PMCID: PMC3842368
PMID: 24312240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


1470. Andrologia. 2014 Dec;46(10):1107-12. doi: 10.1111/and.12199. Epub 2013 Dec 8.

Impaired emotional state, quality of life and cognitive functions in young 
hypogonadal men.

Lašaitė L(1), Ceponis J, Preikša RT, Zilaitienė B.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Endocrinology, Lithuanian University of Health Sciences, Kaunas, 
Lithuania.

The study aimed to analyse emotional state, quality of life and cognitive 
functions in young hypogonadal men. Thirty-four males with hypogonadism (age 
29.1 ± 10.5 years) and 34 age-matched healthy males (age 30.5 ± 11.0 years) were 
recruited. Their emotional state was evaluated by Profile of Mood States, 
quality of life - by WHO Brief Quality of Life Questionnaire - and cognitive 
functioning - by Trail Making Test and Digit Span Test of Wechsler Adult 
Intelligence Scale. It was found that young men with hypogonadism had higher 
depression-dejection (13.1 ± 8.8 versus 7.4 ± 5.9, P = 0.003), fatigue-inertia 
(10.0 ± 5.8 versus 7.0 ± 4.9, P = 0.030), confusion-bewilderment (5.1 ± 4.6 
versus 2.3 ± 3.1, P = 0.004) and lower vigour-activity (14.3 ± 5.1 versus 
17.7 ± 4.3, P = 0.008) levels than age- and sex-matched controls. Quality of 
life psychological (13.1 ± 2.8 versus 15.1 ± 1.9, P = 0.005) and social 
(13.6 ± 2.4 versus 15.7 ± 2.0, P < 0.001) domains were significantly worse in 
men with hypogonadism than in controls. Cognitive functions were significantly 
worse (P < 0.001) in men with hypogonadism than in controls, showing worse 
executive function, attention, visual scanning abilities and psychomotor speed. 
A significant correlation was found between testosterone concentration and 
quality of life psychological domain. Cognitive functioning scores were 
significantly related with FT4 concentration. It is concluded that young 
hypogonadal patients have impaired emotional state and quality of life, but the 
most severe impairment was found in cognitive functioning.

© 2013 Blackwell Verlag GmbH.

DOI: 10.1111/and.12199
PMID: 24313565 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1471. Psychiatry Clin Neurosci. 2014 Mar;68(3):234-41. doi: 10.1111/pcn.12119. Epub 
2013 Dec 8.

Relation between remission status and attention in patients with schizophrenia.

Fukumoto M(1), Hashimoto R, Ohi K, Yasuda Y, Yamamori H, Umeda-Yano S, Iwase M, 
Kazui H, Takeda M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Osaka University Graduate School of Medicine, 
Osaka, Japan; Core Research for Evolutionary Science and Technology (CREST) of 
Japan Science and Technology Agency (JST), Saitama, Japan.

AIM: Patients with schizophrenia in remission have shown significantly higher 
levels of neurocognitive function than patients not in remission. However, 
previous studies have mainly examined the association between neurocognitive 
function and the remission status of schizophrenia without considering the time 
component of the definition for remission using cross-sectional methods. The 
purpose of this study was to investigate the relations between remission status 
with considering time components and three cognitive functions of intellectual 
ability, memory and attention, which were examined before fulfilling the 
remission criteria, using longitudinal methods.
METHODS: We assessed the remission status using the Positive and Negative 
Syndrome Scale (PANSS) on the same patients twice: at recruitment and at 6 
months after the first PANSS assessment. Cognitive tests were performed within 3 
months after recruitment. At recruitment, 337 patients were enrolled. Of the 
patients, 63 patients were followed up and completedthe first and second PANSS 
assessments and three cognitive tests at the end of study.
RESULTS: Of the patients, 33 patients fulfilled the remission criteria, while 30 
patients did not fulfill the criteria. Patients in remission showed 
significantly higher levels of 2-digit (P = 0.020) and 3-digit (P = 0.015) 
Continuous Performance Test scores, attention/concentration in the Wechsler 
Memory Scale-Revised (P = 0.034) and processing speeds in the Wechsler Adult 
Intelligence Scale-III (P = 0.047) than patients not in remission. Additionally, 
these cognitive scores were positively correlated with each other (P < 0.05).
CONCLUSION: Our findings suggest that patients who achieve remission may 
demonstrate a pre-existing higher level of attention than patients who do not 
achieve remission.

© 2013 The Authors. Psychiatry and Clinical Neurosciences © 2013 Japanese 
Society of Psychiatry and Neurology.

DOI: 10.1111/pcn.12119
PMID: 24313598 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1472. Epilepsia. 2014 Jan;55(1):123-32. doi: 10.1111/epi.12479. Epub 2013 Dec 6.

Diagnostic delays in children with early onset epilepsy: impact, reasons, and 
opportunities to improve care.

Berg AT(1), Loddenkemper T, Baca CB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Epilepsy Center, and Northwestern Memorial Feinberg 
School of Medicine, Ann & Robert H. Lurie Children's Hospital of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois, U.S.A.

PURPOSE: Delayed diagnosis of early onset epilepsy is a potentially important 
and avoidable complication in epilepsy care. We examined the frequency of 
diagnostic delays in young children with newly presenting epilepsy, their 
developmental impact, and reasons for delays.
METHODS: Children who developed epilepsy before their third birthday were 
identified in a prospective community-based cohort. An interval ≥1 month from 
second seizure to diagnosis was considered a delay. Testing of development at 
baseline and for up to 3 years after and of intelligence quotient (IQ) 8-9 years 
later was performed. Detailed parental baseline interview accounts and medical 
records were reviewed to identify potential reasons for delays. Factors 
associated with delays included the parent, child, pediatrician, neurologist, 
and scheduling.
RESULTS: Diagnostic delays occurred in 70 (41%) of 172 children. Delays occurred 
less often if children had received medical attention for the first seizure (p < 
0.0001), previously had neonatal or febrile seizures (p = 0.02), had only 
convulsions before diagnosis (p = 0.005), or had a college-educated parent (p = 
0.01). A ≥1 month diagnostic delay was associated with an average 7.4 point drop 
(p = 0.02) in the Vineland Scales of Adaptive Behavior motor score. The effect 
was present at diagnosis, persisted for at least 3 years, and was also apparent 
in IQ scores 8-9 years later, which were lower in association with a diagnostic 
delay by 8.4 points (p = 0.06) for processing speed up to 14.5 points (p = 
0.004) for full scale IQ, after adjustment for parental education and other 
epilepsy-related clinical factors. Factors associated with delayed diagnosis 
included parents not recognizing events as seizures (N = 47), pediatricians 
missing or deferring diagnosis (N = 15), neurologists deferring diagnosis (N = 
7), and scheduling problems (N = 11).
SIGNIFICANCE: Diagnostic delays occur in many young children with epilepsy. They 
are associated with substantial decrements in development and IQ later in 
childhood. Several factors influence diagnostic delays and may represent 
opportunities for intervention and improved care.

Wiley Periodicals, Inc. © 2013 International League Against Epilepsy.

DOI: 10.1111/epi.12479
PMCID: PMC3946922
PMID: 24313635 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures: The authors declare no conflicts of 
interest.


1473. J Child Psychol Psychiatry. 2014 May;55(5):485-94. doi: 10.1111/jcpp.12178. Epub 
2013 Dec 9.

Predicting young adult outcome among more and less cognitively able individuals 
with autism spectrum disorders.

Anderson DK(1), Liang JW, Lord C.

Author information:
(1)Center for Autism and the Developing Brain (CADB), Weill Cornell Medical 
College, White Plains, NY, USA.

BACKGROUND: The range of outcomes for young adults with Autism Spectrum 
Disorders (ASD) and the early childhood factors associated with this diversity 
have implications for clinicians and scientists.
METHODS: This prospective study provided a unique opportunity to predict outcome 
17 years later for a relatively large sample of children diagnosed with ASD at 2 
years old. Diagnostic and psychometric instruments were administered between 2 
and 19 with data from 2, 3, and 19 included in this study. Clinicians 
administered tests without knowledge of previous assessments whenever possible. 
Caregivers provided additional information through questionnaires.
RESULTS: Significant intellectual disabilities at 19 were predicted by age 2 
about 85% of the time from VIQ and NVIQ scores together, though prediction of 
young adult outcome for youths with average or higher intelligence was more 
complex. By 19, 9% of participants had largely overcome core difficulties 
associated with ASD and no longer retained a diagnosis. These youths with Very 
Positive Outcomes were more likely to have participated in treatment and had a 
greater reduction in repetitive behaviors between age 2 and 3 compared to other 
Cognitively Able youths (VIQ ≥70) with ASD. Very Positive Outcome youths did not 
differ phenotypically from Cognitively Able ASD individuals at 2 but both groups 
differed from Cognitively Less Able individuals (VIQ <70).
CONCLUSION: Those most at risk for intellectual disabilities and ASD can be 
reliably identified at an early age to receive comprehensive treatment. Findings 
also suggest that some cognitively able children with ASD who participate in 
early intervention have very positive outcomes, although replication with 
randomized, larger samples is needed. In order to improve understanding of very 
positive outcomes in ASD, future research will need to identify how variations 
in child characteristics and environmental factors contribute to the nature and 
timing of growth across individuals and areas of development.

© 2013 The Authors. Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry © 2013 
Association for Child and Adolescent Mental Health.

DOI: 10.1111/jcpp.12178
PMCID: PMC5819743
PMID: 24313878 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest statement: See 
acknowledgements for disclosures.


1474. Forensic Sci Int. 2013 Dec 10;233(1-3):201-11. doi: 
10.1016/j.forsciint.2013.09.009. Epub 2013 Sep 14.

Impact of reaction parameters on the chemical profile of 
3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine synthesized via reductive amination: target 
analysis based on GC-qMS compared to non-targeted analysis based on 
GC×GC-TOF-MS.

Schäffer M(1), Dieckmann S, Pütz M, Kohles T, Pyell U, Zimmermann R.

Author information:
(1)Comprehensive Molecular Analytics, Helmholtz Zentrum München - German 
Research Center for Environmental Health, Ingolstädter Landstr. 1, 85764 
Neuherberg, Germany; Chair of Analytical Chemistry, Institute of Chemistry, 
University of Rostock, Dr.-Lorenz-Weg 1, 18059 Rostock, Germany.

The most common clandestine manufacturing procedure for the ecstasy derivative 
3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA), is the reductive amination of 
piperonylmethylketone (PMK) via platinum(IV) oxide/hydrogen. Deviations of the 
reaction conditions during the synthesis may result in different chemical 
profiles of the products. The chemical analysis of these profiles is an 
important objective for forensic drug intelligence. In this work we studied the 
impact of a systematic variation of the hydrogenation time, the reaction 
temperature and the precursor batch on the resulting organic chemical profiles 
of the MDMA bases and MDMA hydrochlorides. Target analysis was based on a gas 
chromatography mass spectrometry (GC-MS) method which was harmonized during the 
European project CHAMP.(2) In addition, samples were analyzed by comprehensive 
two-dimensional gas chromatography time-of-flight mass spectrometry 
(GC×GC-TOFMS) and subjected to non-targeted data analysis for a comprehensive 
analysis of the complete profiles. The reaction temperature, followed by the 
used precursor batch, revealed the highest impact on the chemical profile. The 
effect on individual impurity compounds is discussed in detail. With respect to 
the interpretation of the data, the profiles were compared to the profiles of 
MDMA samples obtained by reductive amination using sodium borohydride ("cold 
method") and aluminium/mercury amalgam as alternative reducing agents. 
Non-targeted analysis revealed that the discrimination according to the 
synthetic route and the batch of precursor used for the synthesis strongly 
depends on the selected target compounds.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.forsciint.2013.09.009
PMID: 24314521


1475. Forensic Sci Int Genet. 2014 Jan;8(1):1-9. doi: 10.1016/j.fsigen.2013.07.004. 
Epub 2013 Sep 7.

Familial searching: a specialist forensic DNA profiling service utilising the 
National DNA Database to identify unknown offenders via their relatives--the UK 
experience.

Maguire CN(1), McCallum LA, Storey C, Whitaker JP.

Author information:
(1)Consolidated Forensic Laboratory, DC Department of Forensic Sciences, 401 E 
Street SW, Washington, DC 20024, United States. Electronic address: 
christopher.maguire@dc.gov.

The National DNA Database (NDNAD) of England and Wales was established on April 
10th 1995. The NDNAD is governed by a variety of legislative instruments that 
mean that DNA samples can be taken if an individual is arrested and detained in 
a police station. The biological samples and the DNA profiles derived from them 
can be used for purposes related to the prevention and detection of crime, the 
investigation of an offence and for the conduct of a prosecution. Following the 
South East Asian Tsunami of December 2004, the legislation was amended to allow 
the use of the NDNAD to assist in the identification of a deceased person or of 
a body part where death has occurred from natural causes or from a natural 
disaster. The UK NDNAD now contains the DNA profiles of approximately 6 million 
individuals representing 9.6% of the UK population. As the science of DNA 
profiling advanced, the National DNA Database provided a potential resource for 
increased intelligence beyond the direct matching for which it was originally 
created. The familial searching service offered to the police by several UK 
forensic science providers exploits the size and geographic coverage of the 
NDNAD and the fact that close relatives of an offender may share a significant 
proportion of that offender's DNA profile and will often reside in close 
geographic proximity to him or her. Between 2002 and 2011 Forensic Science 
Service Ltd. (FSS) provided familial search services to support 188 police 
investigations, 70 of which are still active cases. This technique, which may be 
used in serious crime cases or in 'cold case' reviews when there are few or no 
investigative leads, has led to the identification of 41 perpetrators or 
suspects. In this paper we discuss the processes, utility, and governance of the 
familial search service in which the NDNAD is searched for close genetic 
relatives of an offender who has left DNA evidence at a crime scene, but whose 
DNA profile is not represented within the NDNAD. We discuss the scientific basis 
of the familial search approach, other DNA-based methods for eliminating 
individuals from the candidate lists generated by these NDNAD searches, the 
value of filtering these lists by age, ethnic appearance and geography and the 
governance required by the NDNAD Strategy Board when a police force commissions 
a familial search. We present the FSS data in relation to the utility of the 
familial searching service and demonstrate the power of the technique by 
reference to casework examples. We comment on the uptake of familial searching 
of DNA databases in the USA, the Netherlands, Australia, and New Zealand. 
Finally, following the adverse ruling by the European Court of Human Rights 
against the UK in regard to the S & Marper cases and the consequent introduction 
of the Protection of Freedoms Act (2012), we discuss the impact that changes to 
regulations concerning the storage of DNA samples will have on the continuing 
provision of familial searching of the National DNA Database in England and 
Wales.

Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fsigen.2013.07.004
PMID: 24315582 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1476. Forensic Sci Int Genet. 2014 Jan;8(1):10-9. doi: 10.1016/j.fsigen.2013.06.014. 
Epub 2013 Sep 7.

I-DNASE21 system: development and SWGDAM validation of a new STR 21-plex 
reaction.

Aznar JM(1), Celorrio D, Odriozola A, Köhnemann S, Bravo ML, Builes JJ, Pfeiffer 
H, Herrera RJ, de Pancorbo MM.

Author information:
(1)BIOMICs Research Group, Centro de Investigación "Lascaray" Ikergunea, 
Universidad del País Vasco UPV/EHU, Avda. Miguel de Unamuno 3, 01006 
Vitoria-Gasteiz, Spain. Electronic address: jmao1982@gmail.com.

I-DNASE21 is a new STR multiplex system that amplifies 21 STR autosomal loci, 
plus the amelogenin locus in one reaction. This system has been designed to 
analyze all the STR loci included in the Combined DNA Index System (CODIS), 
Interpol Standard Set of Loci (ISSL), Extended European Standard Set 
(ESS-Extended), UK National Criminal Intelligence DNA Database (NDNAD) and 
German Core loci (GCL). This manuscript presents the validation of the I-DNASE21 
system according to the revised guidelines issued by the Scientific Working 
Group on DNA Analysis Methods (SWGDAM). The results of this validation, added to 
the extremely high discriminatory power showed, suggest that I-DNASE21 could be 
a potentially helpful tool for identification and kinship determination even in 
complex paternity cases.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fsigen.2013.06.014
PMID: 24315583 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1477. Int J Nurs Educ Scholarsh. 2013 Nov 
30;10:/j/ijnes.2013.10.issue-1/ijnes-2013-0015/ijnes-2013-0015.xml. doi: 
10.1515/ijnes-2013-0015.

Accelerated baccalaureate nursing students use of emotional intelligence in 
nursing as "caring for a human being": a mixed methods grounded theory study.

Ball LS.

Accelerated nursing students are ideal informants regarding abstract nursing 
concepts. How emotional intelligence (EI) is used in nursing remains a 
relatively elusive process that has yet to be empirically modeled. The purpose 
of this study was to generate a theoretical model that explains how EI is used 
in nursing by accelerated baccalaureate nursing students. Using a mixed methods 
grounded theory study design, theoretical sampling of EI scores directed 
sampling for individual interviews and focus groups. Caring for a human being 
emerged as the basic social process at the heart of which all other 
processes--Getting it; Being caring; The essence of professional nurse caring; 
Doing something to make someone feel better; and Dealing with difficulty--are 
interconnected. In addition to a theoretical explanation of the use of EI in 
nursing, this study corroborates findings from other qualitative studies in 
nursing and contributes a rich description of accelerated baccalaureate nursing 
students and an example of a mixed methods study design to the small but growing 
literature in these areas.

DOI: 10.1515/ijnes-2013-0015
PMID: 24317790 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1478. Br J Anaesth. 2014 Mar;112(3):546-55. doi: 10.1093/bja/aet406. Epub 2013 Dec 5.

National critical incident reporting systems relevant to anaesthesia: a European 
survey.

Reed S(1), Arnal D, Frank O, Gomez-Arnau JI, Hansen J, Lester O, Mikkelsen KL, 
Rhaiem T, Rosenberg PH, St Pierre M, Schleppers A, Staender S, Smith AF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anaesthesia, Royal Lancaster Infirmary, Lancaster, UK.

BACKGROUND: Critical incident reporting is a key tool in the promotion of 
patient safety in anaesthesia.
METHODS: We surveyed representatives of national incident reporting systems in 
six European countries, inviting information on scope and organization, and 
intelligence on factors determining success and failure.
RESULTS: Some systems are government-run and nationally conceived; others 
started out as small, specialty-focused initiatives, which have since acquired a 
national reach. However, both national co-ordination and specialty enthusiasts 
seem to be necessary for an optimally functioning system. The role of reporting 
culture, definitional issues, and dissemination is discussed.
CONCLUSIONS: We make recommendations for others intending to start new systems 
and speculate on the prospects for sharing patient safety lessons relevant to 
anaesthesia at European level.

DOI: 10.1093/bja/aet406
PMID: 24318857 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1479. J Child Fam Stud. 2013 Oct 1;22(6):10.1007/s10826-012-9662-5. doi: 
10.1007/s10826-012-9662-5.

Predictors of Response and Mechanisms of Change in an Organizational Skills 
Intervention for Students with ADHD.

Langberg JM(1), Becker SP, Epstein JN, Vaughn AJ, Girio-Herrera E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, VA 
23284.

The purpose of the study was to evaluate predictors of response and mechanisms 
of change for the Homework, Organization, and Planning Skills (HOPS) 
intervention for middle school students with Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity 
Disorder (ADHD). Twenty-three middle school students with ADHD (grades 6-8) 
received the HOPS intervention implemented by school mental health providers and 
made significant improvements in parent-rated materials organization and 
planning skills, impairment due to organizational skills problems, and homework 
problems. Predictors of response examined included demographic and child 
characteristics, such as gender, ethnicity, intelligence, ADHD and ODD symptom 
severity, and ADHD medication use. Mechanisms of change examined included the 
therapeutic alliance and adoption of the organization and planning skills taught 
during the HOPS intervention. Participant implementation of the HOPS binder 
materials organization system and the therapeutic alliance as rated by the 
student significantly predicted post-intervention outcomes after controlling for 
pre-intervention severity. Adoption of the binder materials organization system 
predicted parent-rated improvements in organization, planning, and homework 
problems above and beyond the impact of the therapeutic alliance. These findings 
demonstrate the importance of teaching students with ADHD to use a structured 
binder organization system for organizing and filing homework and classwork 
materials and for transferring work to and from school.

DOI: 10.1007/s10826-012-9662-5
PMCID: PMC3848056
PMID: 24319323


1480. Front Psychol. 2013 Nov 22;4:853. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2013.00853. eCollection 
2013.

Getting into the musical zone: trait emotional intelligence and amount of 
practice predict flow in pianists.

Marin MM(1), Bhattacharya J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Basic Psychological Research and Research Methods, University 
of Vienna Vienna, Austria.

Being "in flow" or "in the zone" is defined as an extremely focused state of 
consciousness which occurs during intense engagement in an activity. In general, 
flow has been linked to peak performances (high achievement) and feelings of 
intense pleasure and happiness. However, empirical research on flow in music 
performance is scarce, although it may offer novel insights into the question of 
why musicians engage in musical activities for extensive periods of time. Here, 
we focused on individual differences in a group of 76 piano performance students 
and assessed their flow experience in piano performance as well as their trait 
emotional intelligence. Multiple regression analysis revealed that flow was 
predicted by the amount of daily practice and trait emotional intelligence. 
Other background variables (gender, age, duration of piano training and age of 
first piano training) were not predictive. To predict high achievement in piano 
performance (i.e., winning a prize in a piano competition), a seven-predictor 
logistic regression model was fitted to the data, and we found that the odds of 
winning a prize in a piano competition were predicted by the amount of daily 
practice and the age at which piano training began. Interestingly, a positive 
relationship between flow and high achievement was not supported. Further, we 
explored the role of musical emotions and musical styles in the induction of 
flow by a self-developed questionnaire. Results suggest that besides individual 
differences among pianists, specific structural and compositional features of 
musical pieces and related emotional expressions may facilitate flow 
experiences. Altogether, these findings highlight the role of emotion in the 
experience of flow during music performance and call for further experiments 
addressing emotion in relation to the performer and the music alike.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2013.00853
PMCID: PMC3837225
PMID: 24319434


1481. J Chem Inf Model. 2014 Jan 27;54(1):16-29. doi: 10.1021/ci400280n. Epub 2013 Dec 
23.

Modeling complex metabolic reactions, ecological systems, and financial and 
legal networks with MIANN models based on Markov-Wiener node descriptors.

Duardo-Sánchez A(1), Munteanu CR, Riera-Fernández P, López-Díaz A, Pazos A, 
González-Díaz H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Information and Communication Technologies, Computer Science 
Faculty, University of A Coruña , Campus de Elviña, 15071, A Coruña, A Coruña, 
Spain.

The use of numerical parameters in Complex Network analysis is expanding to new 
fields of application. At a molecular level, we can use them to describe the 
molecular structure of chemical entities, protein interactions, or metabolic 
networks. However, the applications are not restricted to the world of molecules 
and can be extended to the study of macroscopic nonliving systems, organisms, or 
even legal or social networks. On the other hand, the development of the field 
of Artificial Intelligence has led to the formulation of computational 
algorithms whose design is based on the structure and functioning of networks of 
biological neurons. These algorithms, called Artificial Neural Networks (ANNs), 
can be useful for the study of complex networks, since the numerical parameters 
that encode information of the network (for example centralities/node 
descriptors) can be used as inputs for the ANNs. The Wiener index (W) is a graph 
invariant widely used in chemoinformatics to quantify the molecular structure of 
drugs and to study complex networks. In this work, we explore for the first time 
the possibility of using Markov chains to calculate analogues of node distance 
numbers/W to describe complex networks from the point of view of their nodes. 
These parameters are called Markov-Wiener node descriptors of order k(th) 
(W(k)). Please, note that these descriptors are not related to Markov-Wiener 
stochastic processes. Here, we calculated the W(k)(i) values for a very high 
number of nodes (>100,000) in more than 100 different complex networks using the 
software MI-NODES. These networks were grouped according to the field of 
application. Molecular networks include the Metabolic Reaction Networks (MRNs) 
of 40 different organisms. In addition, we analyzed other biological and legal 
and social networks. These include the Interaction Web Database Biological 
Networks (IWDBNs), with 75 food webs or ecological systems and the Spanish 
Financial Law Network (SFLN). The calculated W(k)(i) values were used as inputs 
for different ANNs in order to discriminate correct node connectivity patterns 
from incorrect random patterns. The MIANN models obtained present good values of 
Sensitivity/Specificity (%): MRNs (78/78), IWDBNs (90/88), and SFLN (86/84). 
These preliminary results are very promising from the point of view of a first 
exploratory study and suggest that the use of these models could be extended to 
the high-throughput re-evaluation of connectivity in known complex networks 
(collation).

DOI: 10.1021/ci400280n
PMID: 24320872 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1482. Brain Cogn. 2014 Feb;84(1):76-84. doi: 10.1016/j.bandc.2013.11.003. Epub 2013 
Dec 8.

Assessment of cognitive function across pregnancy using CANTAB: a longitudinal 
study.

Farrar D(1), Tuffnell D(2), Neill J(3), Scally A(4), Marshall K(3).

Author information:
(1)Bradford Institute for Health Research, Bradford Royal Infirmary, Bradford 
BD9 6RJ, United Kingdom. Electronic address: diane.farrar@bthft.nhs.uk.
(2)Women's and Newborn Unit, Bradford Royal Infirmary, Bradford BD9 6RJ, United 
Kingdom.
(3)Manchester School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of 
Manchester, Manchester M13 9PT, United Kingdom.
(4)School of Health, University of Bradford, Bradford BD7 1DP, United Kingdom.

Significant changes in endogenous plasma hormone levels are required to sustain 
pregnancy which provides a unique opportunity to study their effect on cognitive 
function. Four carefully selected tests from the Cambridge Neuropsychological 
Automated Test Battery (CANTAB) were administered to assess the cognitive 
function of a group of 23 women during each trimester of pregnancy and at three 
months following birth. Test scores were compared with a control group of 24 
non-pregnant women. The Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale was administered to 
assess anxiety and risk of depression. The National Adult Reading Test (NART) 
was used as a measure of verbal intelligence. Plasma hormone levels were 
measured at each time-point. The pregnant group scored significantly lower than 
the control group on the Spatial Recognition Memory (SRM) test at the second 
trimester and postpartum assessments (p⩽0.004). A significant pregnant 
group-time interaction (p=0.005) for SRM performance was demonstrated. Compared 
to their first trimester assessment, the pregnant group scored on average 11.7% 
less on each subsequent SRM test. The pregnant group reported more symptoms of 
anxiety and depression compared to the control group (EPDS-4 point increase in 
mean score at each assessment, p=0.002). There were no plasma hormone levels and 
test score associations identified. These data suggest SRM performance is 
adversely affected by pregnancy. Other aspects of executive function seem to be 
unaffected. Although the pregnant group reported more symptoms of anxiety and 
depression compared to the control group, analysis indicates that this 
confounder is not responsible for the SRM differences.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bandc.2013.11.003
PMID: 24321198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1483. Cancer Inform. 2013 Dec 1;12:221-9. doi: 10.4137/CIN.S13013. eCollection 2013.

Are the somatic mutation and tissue organization field theories of 
carcinogenesis incompatible?

Rosenfeld S(1).

Author information:
(1)National Cancer Institute, Division of Cancer Prevention, Rockville, 
Maryland, USA.

Two drastically different approaches to understanding the forces driving 
carcinogenesis have crystallized through years of research. These are the 
somatic mutation theory (SMT) and the tissue organization field theory (TOFT). 
The essence of SMT is that cancer is derived from a single somatic cell that has 
successively accumulated multiple DNA mutations, and that those mutations occur 
on genes which control cell proliferation and cell cycle. Thus, according to 
SMT, neoplastic lesions are the results of DNA-level events. Conversely, 
according to TOFT, carcinogenesis is primarily a problem of tissue organization: 
carcinogenic agents destroy the normal tissue architecture thus disrupting 
cell-to-cell signaling and compromising genomic integrity. Hence, in TOFT the 
DNA mutations are the effect, and not the cause, of the tissue-level events. 
Cardinal importance of successful resolution of the TOFT versus SMT controversy 
dwells in the fact that, according to SMT, cancer is a unidirectional and mostly 
irreversible disease; whereas, according to TOFT, it is curable and reversible. 
In this paper, our goal is to outline a plausible scenario in which TOFT and SMT 
can be reconciled using the framework and concepts of the self-organized 
criticality (SOC), the principle proven to be extremely fruitful in a wide range 
of disciplines pertaining to natural phenomena, to biological communities, to 
large-scale social developments, to technological networks, and to many other 
subjects of research.

DOI: 10.4137/CIN.S13013
PMCID: PMC3855256
PMID: 24324325


1484. Health Policy. 2014 Feb;114(2-3):269-77. doi: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2013.11.009. 
Epub 2013 Nov 25.

Universal coverage challenges require health system approaches; the case of 
India.

Duran A(1), Kutzin J(2), Menabde N(3).

Author information:
(1)Técnicas de Salud, Sevilla, Spain. Electronic address: aduran@tecsalud.com.
(2)WHO HQ, Geneva, Switzerland.
(3)WHO Country Office India, Delhi, India.

This paper uses the case of India to demonstrate that Universal Health Coverage 
(UHC) is about not only health financing; personal and population services 
production issues, stewardship of the health system and generation of the 
necessary resources and inputs need to accompany the health financing proposals. 
In order to help policy makers address UHC in India and sort out implementation 
issues, the framework developed by the World Health Organization (WHO) in the 
World Health Report 2000 and its subsequent extensions are advocated. The 
framework includes final goals, generic intermediate objectives and four 
inter-dependent functions which interact as a system; it can be useful by 
diagnosing current shortcomings and facilitating the filling up of gaps between 
functions and goals. Different positions are being defended in India re the 
preconditions for UHC to succeed. This paper argues that more (public) money 
will be important, but not enough; it needs to be supplemented with broad 
interventions at various health system levels. The paper analyzes some of the 
most important issues in relation to the functions of service production, 
generation of inputs and the necessary stewardship. It also pays attention to 
reform implementation, as different from its design, and suggests critical 
aspects emanating from a review of recent health system reforms. Precisely 
because of the lack of comparative reference for India, emphasis is made on the 
need to accompany implementation with analysis, so that the "solutions" ("what 
to do?", "how to do it?") are found through policy analysis and research 
embedded into flexible implementation. Strengthening "evidence-to-policy" links 
and the intelligence dimension of stewardship/leadership as well as 
accountability during implementation are considered paramount. Countries facing 
similar challenges to those faced by India can also benefit from the above 
approaches.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2013.11.009
PMID: 24326300 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1485. Eur J Neurol. 2014 May;21(5):708-17. doi: 10.1111/ene.12301. Epub 2013 Dec 16.

Alterations in white matter microstructures and cognitive dysfunctions in benign 
childhood epilepsy with centrotemporal spikes.

Kim SE(1), Lee JH, Chung HK, Lim SM, Lee HW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Ewha Womans University School of Medicine and Ewha 
Medical Research Institute, Seoul, South Korea.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Although benign childhood epilepsy with centrotemporal 
spikes (BECTS) is known to have good prognosis, patients often manifest 
neuropsychological impairments. This study aimed to investigate cognitive 
dysfunctions and their relationship with white matter microstructural changes in 
BECTS patients.
METHODS: Nineteen BECTS and 25 normal subjects aged 7-16 years were included. 
Neuropsychological performances were assessed by the Wechsler Intelligence Scale 
for Children III, executive function tests, verbal and visuospatial memory 
tests, the verbal fluency and Boston naming tests. Diffusion tensor imaging 
(DTI) was performed to measure the fractional anisotropy (FA), axial (AD), 
radial (RD), and mean diffusivities (MD). The voxel-wise tract-based spatial 
statistics and region of interest methods were used for DTI, and their 
correlations with cognitive variables were analyzed.
RESULTS: Patients with BECTS had lower intelligence quotient (IQ) scores 
compared with those of the control group. Higher AD and MD values were found in 
the left superior longitudinal fasciculus, the retrolenticular part of the 
internal capsule, posterior thalamic radiation, sagittal stratum and the body of 
the corpus callosum in BECTS patients compared with controls. Lower performances 
in verbal IQ, freedom from distractibility and processing speed were correlated 
with higher AD in the left superior fronto-occipital fasciculus, and lower 
verbal IQ scores were correlated with decreased FA values in the splenium of the 
corpus callosum in these patients.
CONCLUSIONS: White matter microstructural changes predominantly in the left 
hemisphere might contribute to their cognitive abnormalities especially verbal 
IQ in BECTS patients.

© 2013 The Author(s) European Journal of Neurology © 2013 EFNS.

DOI: 10.1111/ene.12301
PMID: 24330132 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1486. Investig Genet. 2013 Dec 11;4(1):27. doi: 10.1186/2041-2223-4-27.

Metabarcoding avian diets at airports: implications for birdstrike hazard 
management planning.

Coghlan ML, White NE, Murray DC, Houston J, Rutherford W, Bellgard MI, Haile J, 
Bunce M(1).

Author information:
(1)Australian Wildlife Forensic Services and Ancient DNA Laboratory, School of 
Veterinary and Life Sciences, Murdoch University, Murdoch, Western Australia 
6150, Australia. m.bunce@icloud.com.

BACKGROUND: Wildlife collisions with aircraft cost the airline industry billions 
of dollars per annum and represent a public safety risk. Clearly, adapting 
aerodrome habitats to become less attractive to hazardous wildlife will reduce 
the incidence of collisions. Formulating effective habitat management strategies 
relies on accurate species identification of high-risk species. This can be 
successfully achieved for all strikes either through morphology and/or DNA-based 
identifications. Beyond species identification, dietary analysis of birdstrike 
gut contents can provide valuable intelligence for airport hazard management 
practices in regards to what food is attracting which species to aerodromes. 
Here, we present birdstrike identification and dietary data from Perth Airport, 
Western Australia, an aerodrome that saw approximately 140,000 aircraft 
movements in 2012. Next-generation high throughput DNA sequencing was employed 
to investigate 77 carcasses from 16 bird species collected over a 12-month 
period. Five DNA markers, which broadly characterize vertebrates, invertebrates 
and plants, were used to target three animal mitochondrial genes (12S rRNA, 16S 
rRNA, and COI) and a plastid gene (trnL) from DNA extracted from birdstrike 
carcass gastrointestinal tracts.
RESULTS: Over 151,000 DNA sequences were generated, filtered and analyzed by a 
fusion-tag amplicon sequencing approach. Across the 77 carcasses, the most 
commonly identified vertebrate was Mus musculus (house mouse). Acrididae 
(grasshoppers) was the most common invertebrate family identified, and Poaceae 
(grasses) the most commonly identified plant family. The DNA-based dietary data 
has the potential to provide some key insights into feeding ecologies within and 
around the aerodrome.
CONCLUSIONS: The data generated here, together with the methodological approach, 
will greatly assist in the development of hazard management plans and, in 
combination with existing observational studies, provide an improved way to 
monitor the effectiveness of mitigation strategies (for example, netting of 
water, grass type, insecticides and so on) at aerodromes. It is hoped that with 
the insights provided by dietary data, airports will be able to allocate 
financial resources to the areas that will achieve the best outcomes for 
birdstrike reduction.

DOI: 10.1186/2041-2223-4-27
PMCID: PMC3874626
PMID: 24330620


1487. J Adolesc. 2014 Jan;37(1):37-46. doi: 10.1016/j.adolescence.2013.10.005. Epub 
2013 Nov 15.

Feasibility and validity of ecological momentary assessment in adolescents with 
high-functioning autism and Asperger's disorder.

Khor AS(1), Gray KM(2), Reid SC(3), Melvin GA(4).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Developmental Psychiatry and Psychology, School of Psychology & 
Psychiatry, Monash University, Australia. Electronic address: 
Angela.khor@gmail.com.
(2)Centre for Developmental Psychiatry and Psychology, School of Psychology & 
Psychiatry, Monash University, Australia. Electronic address: 
Kylie.gray@monash.edu.
(3)Murdoch Childrens Research Institute, Royal Children's Hospital, Flemington 
Road, Parkville, VIC 3052, Australia. Electronic address: 
Sophie.reid@mcri.edu.au.
(4)Centre for Developmental Psychiatry and Psychology, School of Psychology & 
Psychiatry, Monash University, Australia. Electronic address: 
Glenn.melvin@monash.edu.

Ecological Momentary Assessment (EMA) may increase accuracy of data compared 
with retrospective questionnaires by assessing behaviours as they occur, hence 
decreasing recall biases and increasing ecological validity. This study examined 
the feasibility and concurrent validity of an EMA tool for adolescents with 
High-Functioning Autism Spectrum Disorders (HFASD). Thirty-one adolescents with 
HFASD completed a mobile phone EMA application that assessed stressors and 
coping for two weeks. Parents and adolescents also completed retrospective 
measures of the adolescent's coping/stressors. Moderate compliance with the EMA 
tool was achieved and some concurrent validity was established with the 
retrospective measure of coping. Concordance was found between the types of 
stressors reported by parents and adolescents but not the quantity. The results 
suggest adolescents with HFASD are capable of reporting on their stressors and 
coping via EMA. EMA has the potential to be a valuable research tool in this 
population.

Copyright © 2013 The Foundation for Professionals in Services for Adolescents. 
Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.adolescence.2013.10.005
PMID: 24331303 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1488. J Adolesc. 2014 Jan;37(1):67-71. doi: 10.1016/j.adolescence.2013.10.012. Epub 
2013 Nov 20.

Brief report: Associations between adolescent girls' social-emotional 
intelligence and violence perpetration.

Gower AL(1), Shlafer RJ(2), Polan J(3), McRee AL(4), McMorris BJ(5), Pettingell 
SL(6), Sieving RE(5).

Author information:
(1)Division of General Pediatrics and Adolescent Health, Department of 
Pediatrics, Medical School, University of Minnesota, 717 Delaware St SE, 
Minneapolis, MN 55414, USA. Electronic address: gowe0009@umn.edu.
(2)Division of General Pediatrics and Adolescent Health, Department of 
Pediatrics, Medical School, University of Minnesota, 717 Delaware St SE, 
Minneapolis, MN 55414, USA; Healthy Youth Development - Prevention Research 
Center, Division of General Pediatrics and Adolescent Health, Department of 
Pediatrics, Medical School, University of Minnesota, 717 Delaware St SE, 
Minneapolis, MN 55414, USA.
(3)Healthy Youth Development - Prevention Research Center, Division of General 
Pediatrics and Adolescent Health, Department of Pediatrics, Medical School, 
University of Minnesota, 717 Delaware St SE, Minneapolis, MN 55414, USA; Annex 
Teen Clinic, Robbinsdale, MN, USA.
(4)Division of Health Behavior and Health Promotion, The Ohio State University, 
Columbus, OH, USA.
(5)Healthy Youth Development - Prevention Research Center, Division of General 
Pediatrics and Adolescent Health, Department of Pediatrics, Medical School, 
University of Minnesota, 717 Delaware St SE, Minneapolis, MN 55414, USA; School 
of Nursing, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN, USA.
(6)School of Nursing, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN, USA.

This study examined associations between social-emotional intelligence (SEI) and 
two measures of violence perpetration (relational aggression and physical 
violence) in a cross-sectional sample of high-risk adolescent girls (N = 253). 
We evaluated three aspects of SEI: stress management, intrapersonal, and 
interpersonal skills. Results of a multiple linear regression model accounting 
for participants' age, race/ethnicity, and experiences of relational aggression 
victimization indicated that girls with better stress management skills were 
less likely to perpetrate relational aggression. A parallel model for 
perpetration of physical violence showed a similar pattern of results. Study 
findings suggest that SEI, and stress management skills in particular, may 
protect adolescent girls - including those who have been victims of violence - 
from perpetrating relational aggression and physical violence. Interventions 
that build adolescent girls' social and emotional skills may be an effective 
strategy for reducing their perpetration of violence.

Copyright © 2013 The Foundation for Professionals in Services for Adolescents. 
Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.adolescence.2013.10.012
PMCID: PMC3906435
PMID: 24331306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1489. Soc Sci Med. 2013 Dec;98:87-94. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2013.08.016. Epub 2013 
Aug 27.

Service provision for autism in mainland China: preliminary mapping of service 
pathways.

Sun X(1), Allison C(2), Auyeung B(2), Matthews FE(3), Baron-Cohen S(2), Brayne 
C(4).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Public Health, Department of Public Health and Primary Care, 
Forvie Site, Robinson Way, University of Cambridge, CB2 0SR, UK; Autism Research 
Centre, Department of Psychiatry, Douglas House, 18b Trumpington Road, 
University of Cambridge, CB2 2AH, UK. Electronic address: 
xs227@medschl.cam.ac.uk.
(2)Autism Research Centre, Department of Psychiatry, Douglas House, 18b 
Trumpington Road, University of Cambridge, CB2 2AH, UK.
(3)MRC Biostatistics Unit, Cambridge Institute of Public Health, Forvie Site, 
Robinson Way, CB2 0SR, UK.
(4)Institute of Public Health, Department of Public Health and Primary Care, 
Forvie Site, Robinson Way, University of Cambridge, CB2 0SR, UK.

Few data on healthcare services for individuals with Autism Spectrum Conditions 
(ASC) are available from mainland China. This article is based on findings from 
69 semi-structured interviews with parents of children with ASC in three 
intervention centres. The respondents are from 19 regions in mainland China. A 
service-mapping questionnaire containing 50 questions is developed and used as 
an interview schedule for service mapping. The pathway to diagnosis and 
intervention for children with ASC is presented according to parents' 
experience. The findings report considerable delay along the pathway which may 
be partly due to the under-developed service system. Several cultural issues are 
identified which may also contribute to the delay, such as the perception of 
mental illness, folk beliefs equating delayed development of language skills in 
early childhood with future high intelligence, and the state-imposed one-child 
policy. Delays in recognising ASC and a lack of support are also considered to 
be associated with the considerable financial burden placed on parents of 
children with ASC in mainland China.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2013.08.016
PMCID: PMC6345370
PMID: 24331886 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1490. Dev Cogn Neurosci. 2014 Jan;7:65-75. doi: 10.1016/j.dcn.2013.11.003. Epub 2013 
Nov 25.

White matter connectivity and aerobic fitness in male adolescents.

Herting MM(1), Colby JB(2), Sowell ER(3), Nagel BJ(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Keck School of Medicine at USC/Children's Hospital 
of Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, USA. Electronic address: mherting@chla.usc.edu.
(2)David Geffen School of Medicine, University of California Los Angeles (UCLA), 
Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, Keck School of Medicine at USC/Children's Hospital 
of Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, Oregon Health & Science University, 3181 SW Sam 
Jackson Park Road, Mail-Code: DC7P, Portland, OR 97239, USA; Department of 
Behavioral Neuroscience, Oregon Health & Science University, 3181 SW Sam Jackson 
Park Road, Mail-Code: DC7P, Portland, OR 97239, USA.

Exercise has been shown to have positive effects on the brain and behavior 
throughout various stages of the lifespan. However, little is known about the 
impact of exercise on neurodevelopment during the adolescent years, particularly 
with regard to white matter microstructure, as assessed by diffusion tensor 
imaging (DTI). Both tract-based spatial statistics (TBSS) and tractography-based 
along-tract statistics were utilized to examine the relationship between white 
matter microstructure and aerobic exercise in adolescent males, ages 15-18. 
Furthermore, we examined the data by both (1) grouping individuals based on 
aerobic fitness self-reports (high fit (HF) vs. low fit (LF)), and (2) using VO2 
peak as a continuous variable across the entire sample. Results showed that HF 
youth had an overall higher number of streamline counts compared to LF peers, 
which was driven by group differences in corticospinal tract (CST) and anterior 
corpus callosum (Fminor). In addition, VO2 peak was negatively related to FA in 
the left CST. Together, these results suggest that aerobic fitness relates to 
white matter connectivity and microstructure in tracts carrying frontal and 
motor fibers during adolescence. Furthermore, the current study highlights the 
importance of considering the environmental factor of aerobic exercise when 
examining adolescent brain development.

Copyright © 2013 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dcn.2013.11.003
PMCID: PMC4020709
PMID: 24333926 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1491. Prog Lipid Res. 2014 Jan;53:1-17. doi: 10.1016/j.plipres.2013.10.002. Epub 2013 
Oct 24.

Long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (LCPUFA) from genesis to senescence: the 
influence of LCPUFA on neural development, aging, and neurodegeneration.

Janssen CI(1), Kiliaan AJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy, Radboud University Medical Center, Donders Institute 
for Brain, Cognition, and Behaviour, PO Box 9101, 6500 HB Nijmegen, The 
Netherlands. Electronic address: Carola.Janssen@radboudumc.nl.
(2)Department of Anatomy, Radboud University Medical Center, Donders Institute 
for Brain, Cognition, and Behaviour, PO Box 9101, 6500 HB Nijmegen, The 
Netherlands. Electronic address: Amanda.Kiliaan@radboudumc.nl.

Many clinical and animal studies demonstrate the importance of long-chain 
polyunsaturated fatty acids (LCPUFA) in neural development and 
neurodegeneration. This review will focus on involvement of LCPUFA from genesis 
to senescence. The LCPUFA docosahexaenoic acid and arachidonic acid are 
important components of neuronal membranes, while eicosapentaenoic acid, 
docosahexaenoic acid, and arachidonic acid also affect cardiovascular health and 
inflammation. In neural development, LCPUFA deficiency can lead to severe 
disorders like schizophrenia and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. 
Perinatal LCPUFA supplementation demonstrated beneficial effects in neural 
development in humans and rodents resulting in improved cognition and 
sensorimotor integration. In normal aging, the effect of LCPUFA on prevention of 
cognitive impairment will be discussed. LCPUFA are important for neuronal 
membrane integrity and function, and also contribute in prevention of brain 
hypoperfusion. Cerebral perfusion can be compromised as result of obesity, 
cerebrovascular disease, hypertension, or diabetes mellitus type 2. Last, we 
will focus on the role of LCPUFA in most common neurodegenerative diseases like 
Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease. These disorders are characterized 
by impaired cognition and connectivity and both clinical and animal 
supplementation studies have shown the potential of LCPUFA to decrease 
neurodegeneration and inflammation. This review shows that LCPUFA are essential 
throughout life.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.plipres.2013.10.002
PMID: 24334113 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1492. Eur Child Adolesc Psychiatry. 2014 Dec;23(12):1149-60. doi: 
10.1007/s00787-013-0498-3. Epub 2013 Dec 15.

Paediatric European Risperidone Studies (PERS): context, rationale, objectives, 
strategy, and challenges.

Glennon J(1), Purper-Ouakil D, Bakker M, Zuddas A, Hoekstra P, Schulze U, 
Castro-Fornieles J, Santosh PJ, Arango C, Kölch M, Coghill D, Flamarique I, 
Penzol MJ, Wan M, Murray M, Wong IC, Danckaerts M, Bonnot O, Falissard B, Masi 
G, Fegert JM, Vicari S, Carucci S, Dittmann RW, Buitelaar JK; PERS Consortium.

Collaborators: Vinkenvleugel L, Autric RL, Urquhart G, Curran S, Berg R, 
Banaschewski T, Haege A, Cohen D, Raffin M, Pina-Camacho L, Calvo A, Moron G, 
Schlanser S, Aslan S, Keller F, Tan J, Drent C, Brovedani P, Steyaert J, Morer 
A, Treweek S, Bahadori S, Peyre H, Hubert A, Balia C, Baeza I, Lazaro L, Hogarth 
F, MacFarlane S, Patel E, Seth S, Nowotny E, Sala R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cognitive Neuroscience, Donders Institute for Brain, Cognition 
and Behavior, RUNMC Radboud University Nijmegen Medical Center, Nijmegen, The 
Netherlands, J.Glennon@donders.ru.nl.

In children and adolescents with conduct disorder (CD), pharmacotherapy is 
considered when non-pharmacological interventions do not improve symptoms and 
functional impairment. Risperidone, a second-generation antipsychotic is 
increasingly prescribed off-label in this indication, but its efficacy and 
tolerability is poorly studied in CD, especially in young people with normal 
intelligence. The Paediatric European Risperidone Studies (PERS) include a 
series of trials to assess short-term efficacy, tolerability and maintenance 
effects of risperidone in children and adolescents with CD and normal 
intelligence as well as long-term tolerability in a 2-year pharmacovigilance. In 
addition to its core studies, secondary PERS analyses will examine moderators of 
drug effects. As PERS is a large-scale academic project involving a 
collaborative network of expert centres from different countries, it is expected 
that results will lead to strengthen the evidence base for the use of 
risperidone in CD and improve standards of care. Challenging issues faced by the 
PERS consortium are described to facilitate future developments in paediatric 
neuropsychopharmacology.

DOI: 10.1007/s00787-013-0498-3
PMCID: PMC4246122
PMID: 24337449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1493. Pediatr Obes. 2014 Dec;9(6):419-26. doi: 10.1111/j.2047-6310.2013.00203.x. Epub 
2013 Dec 11.

IQ and obesity in adolescence: a population-based, cross-sectional study.

Goldberg S(1), Werbeloff N, Fruchter E, Portuguese S, Davidson M, Weiser M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Sheba Medical Center, Ramat Gan, Israel.

WHAT IS ALREADY KNOWN ABOUT THIS SUBJECT: Low IQ is associated with high BMI in 
childhood. There are inconsistent findings on the association between low SES 
and high BMI. Youth with low IQ have been reported to have poorer health 
behaviors, such as poor nutrition and less physical activity.
WHAT THIS STUDY ADDS: Low IQ is significantly associated with obesity for both 
male and female adolescents, though more strongly for female adolescents. 
Physical activity has a mediating effect on the association between low IQ and 
obesity among both male and female adolescents, though more strongly for male 
adolescents. The association between low IQ and obesity is strongest among 
adolescents from high SES backgrounds.
BACKGROUND: Previous studies have shown an association between low intelligence 
quotient (IQ), high body mass index and low socioeconomic status (SES).
OBJECTIVES: This study examined the cross-sectional association between IQ and 
obesity, exploring the roles of gender, SES and physical activity in this 
association.
METHODS: Subjects were 235,663 male and 169,259 female adolescents assessed by 
the Israeli military draft board.
RESULTS: Low IQ was significantly associated with increased odds of obesity 
among male (odds ratio [OR] = 1.44, 95% confidence interval [CI] = 1.36-1.52) 
and female adolescents (OR = 1.61, 95% CI = 1.51-1.73); this association was 
significantly stronger among female adolescents. Sobel tests indicated that 
physical activity had a significant mediating effect on this association for 
male and female adolescents, although more strongly for male adolescents. 
Dividing the sample according to SES, the association between low IQ and obesity 
was strongest in the high SES group (male adolescents: OR = 1.26, 95% 
CI = 1.10-1.43, female adolescents: OR = 1.61, 95% CI = 1.38-1.89), even when 
controlling for physical activity.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings suggest that low IQ is associated with increased odds 
of obesity, particularly in female adolescents and in adolescents with high SES. 
Physical activity has a mediating effect on this association, although more 
strongly for male than for female adolescents. Public health measures on 
decreasing obesity might focus on these groups.

© 2013 The Authors. Pediatric Obesity © 2013 International Association for the 
Study of Obesity.

DOI: 10.1111/j.2047-6310.2013.00203.x
PMID: 24339055 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1494. Autism Res. 2014 Jun;7(3):305-13. doi: 10.1002/aur.1350. Epub 2013 Dec 12.

Gut permeability in autism spectrum disorders.

Dalton N(1), Chandler S, Turner C, Charman T, Pickles A, Loucas T, Simonoff E, 
Sullivan P, Baird G.

Author information:
(1)WellChild Laboratory, Evelina Children's Hospital & King's College London, 
London.

OBJECTIVE: To test whether gut permeability is increased in autism spectrum 
disorders (ASD) by evaluating gut permeability in a population-derived cohort of 
children with ASD compared with age- and intelligence quotient-matched controls 
without ASD but with special educational needs (SEN).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: One hundred thirty-three children aged 10-14 years, 103 
with ASD and 30 with SEN, were given an oral test dose of mannitol and lactulose 
and urine collected for 6 hr. Gut permeability was assessed by measuring the 
urine lactulose/mannitol (L/M) recovery ratio by electrospray mass 
spectrometry-mass spectrometry. The ASD group was subcategorized for comparison 
into those without (n = 83) and with (n = 20) regression.
RESULTS: There was no significant difference in L/M recovery ratio (mean (95% 
confidence interval)) between the groups with ASD: 0.015 (0.013-0.018), and SEN: 
0.014 (0.009-0.019), nor in lactulose, mannitol, or creatinine recovery. No 
significant differences were observed in any parameter for the regressed versus 
non-regressed ASD groups. Results were consistent with previously published 
normal ranges. Eleven children (9/103 = 8.7% ASD and 2/30 = 6.7% SEN) had L/M 
recovery ratio > 0.03 (the accepted normal range cut-off), of whom two (one ASD 
and one SEN) had more definitely pathological L/M recovery ratios > 0.04.
CONCLUSION: There is no statistically significant group difference in small 
intestine permeability in a population cohort-derived group of children with ASD 
compared with a control group with SEN. Of the two children (one ASD and one 
SEN) with an L/M recovery ratio of > 0.04, one had undiagnosed asymptomatic 
celiac disease (ASD) and the other (SEN) past extensive surgery for 
gastroschisis.

© 2013 International Society for Autism Research, Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/aur.1350
PMID: 24339339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1495. Psychol Rep. 2013 Aug;113(1):1114-8.

Regional intelligence and suicide rate in Germany, revisited.

Voracek M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Basic Psychological Research and Research Methods, School of 
Psychology, University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria. martin.voracek@univie.ac.at

Across the 10 westerly and 6 easterly states of Germany, better-than-average 
school-end grades, taken as a proxy for intelligence, corresponded to higher 
regional suicide rates. This finding adds to similar evidence from other 
countries (Austria, Belarus, British Isles, Denmark, Netherlands, and USA), 
suggestive of positive ecologic (group-level) associations between indicators 
for cognitive ability and suicide prevalence, whilst offsetting prior 
inconclusive evidence for Germany from Voracek (2006) on the same question.

PMID: 24340804 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1496. Can J Exp Psychol. 2013 Dec;67(4):260-270. doi: 10.1037/a0034351.

Individual differences in working memory, secondary memory, and fluid 
intelligence: evidence from the levels-of-processing span task.

Rose NS(1).

Author information:
(1)Rotman Research Institute of Baycrest.

Individual differences in working memory (WM) are related to performance on 
secondary memory (SM), and fluid intelligence (gF) tests. However, the source of 
the relation remains unclear, in part because few studies have controlled for 
the nature of encoding; therefore, it is unclear whether individual variation is 
due to encoding, maintenance, or retrieval processes. In the current study, 
participants performed a WM task (the levels-of-processing span task; Rose, 
Myerson, Roediger III, & Hale, 2010) and a SM test that tested for both targets 
and the distracting processing words from the initial WM task. Deeper levels of 
processing at encoding did not benefit WM, but did benefit subsequent SM, 
although the amount of benefit was smaller for those with lower WM spans. This 
result suggests that, despite encoding cues that facilitate retrieval from SM, 
low spans may have engaged in shallower, maintenance-focused processing to 
maintain the words in WM. Low spans also recalled fewer targets, more 
distractors, and more extralist intrusions than high spans, although this was 
partially due to low spans' poorer recall of targets, which resulted in a 
greater number of opportunities to commit recall errors. Delayed recall of 
intrusions and commission of source errors (labeling targets as processing words 
and vice versa) were significant negative predictors of gF. These results 
suggest that the ability to use source information to recall relevant 
information and withhold recall of irrelevant information is a critical source 
of both individual variation in WM and the relation between WM, SM, and gF. 
(PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2013 APA, all rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/a0034351
PMID: 24341741 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1497. Emotion. 2014 Apr;14(2):358-374. doi: 10.1037/a0034755. Epub 2013 Dec 16.

Emotional intelligence is a second-stratum factor of intelligence: evidence from 
hierarchical and bifactor models.

MacCann C(1), Joseph DL(2), Newman DA(3), Roberts RD(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Psychology.
(2)Department of Psychology, University of Central Florida.
(3)Department of Psychology.
(4)Center for Academic and Workforce Readiness and Success, Research and 
Development, Educational Testing Service.

This article examines the status of emotional intelligence (EI) within the 
structure of human cognitive abilities. To evaluate whether EI is a 2nd-stratum 
factor of intelligence, data were fit to a series of structural models involving 
3 indicators each for fluid intelligence, crystallized intelligence, 
quantitative reasoning, visual processing, and broad retrieval ability, as well 
as 2 indicators each for emotion perception, emotion understanding, and emotion 
management. Unidimensional, multidimensional, hierarchical, and bifactor 
solutions were estimated in a sample of 688 college and community college 
students. Results suggest adequate fit for 2 models: (a) an oblique 8-factor 
model (with 5 traditional cognitive ability factors and 3 EI factors) and (b) a 
hierarchical solution (with cognitive g at the highest level and EI representing 
a 2nd-stratum factor that loads onto g at λ = .80). The acceptable relative fit 
of the hierarchical model confirms the notion that EI is a group factor of 
cognitive ability, marking the expression of intelligence in the emotion domain. 
The discussion proposes a possible expansion of Cattell-Horn-Carroll theory to 
include EI as a 2nd-stratum factor of similar standing to factors such as fluid 
intelligence and visual processing.

DOI: 10.1037/a0034755
PMID: 24341786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1498. BMC Neurol. 2013 Dec 16;13:203. doi: 10.1186/1471-2377-13-203.

Cognitive profile in patients with a first-ever lacunar infarct with and without 
silent lacunes: a comparative study.

Blanco-Rojas L, Arboix A(1), Canovas D, Grau-Olivares M, Oliva Morera JC, Parra 
O.

Author information:
(1)Cerebrovascular Division, Department of Neurology, Capio-Hospital 
Universitari del Sagrat Cor, Universitat de Barcelona, C/ Viladomat 288, 
E-08029, Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain. aarboix@hscor.com.

BACKGROUND: The detection of early neuropsychological abnormalities as 
precursors of cognitive decline of vascular origin in patients with lacunar 
stroke is a subject of increasing interest. The objective of this study was to 
assess whether there were differences in the performance of a battery of 
neuropsychological tests in first-ever lacunar stroke patients with and without 
associated silent multiple lacunar infarctions found incidentally on the brain 
magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan.
METHODS: A total of 72 consecutive patients with first-ever lacunar infarction 
were studied 1 month after stroke. All patients underwent a comprehensive 
neuropsychological evaluation, which included the California Verbal Learning 
Test (CVLT), Phonetic Verbal Fluency Test (PMR), Semantic Verbal Fluency Test 
(category "animals"), Digit Span Forward and Backward from the Wechsler Adult 
Intelligence Scale (WAIS-III), and Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE).
RESULTS: A total of 38 patients (52.7%) had silent multiple lacunar infarcts, 
with corona radiata as the most frequent topography (P < 0.023). White matter 
hyperintensities (leukoaraiosis) were observed in 81.1% of patients with silent 
multiple lacunar infarcts and in 50% with a single lacunar infarction 
(P < 0.007). Patients in both groups showed similar scores in the MMSE, but 
those with associated silent lacunar infarctions showed a poorer performance in 
the semantic fluency test (P < 0.008) and in short delayed verbal memory 
(P < 0.001). In both cases, however, leukoaraiosis was not statistically 
significant in multivariate linear regression models adjusted by confounding 
covariates. In these models, multiple silent lacunar infarctions and education 
were independent predictors of poor performance in the semantic fluency test and 
in short delayed verbal memory.
CONCLUSIONS: The presence of silent multiple lacunar infarctions documented on 
brain MRI scans in patients with first-ever lacunar stroke was associated with 
mild neuropsychological abnormalities, particularly in the performance of 
executive functions (semantic fluency) and short delayed verbal memory. 
According to these findings, in the initial stages of small vessel disease, mild 
neuropsychological abnormalities appear to be related to lacunes rather than to 
leukoaraiosis or perivascular hyperintensities of vascular cause.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2377-13-203
PMCID: PMC3866944
PMID: 24341857 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1499. Psychol Med. 2014 Jul;44(10):2199-211. doi: 10.1017/S0033291713002912. Epub 2013 
Dec 17.

Bullying in elementary school and psychotic experiences at 18 years: a 
longitudinal, population-based cohort study.

Wolke D(1), Lereya ST(1), Fisher HL(2), Lewis G(3), Zammit S(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology and Warwick Medical School, Division of Mental 
Health and Wellbeing,University of Warwick,Coventry,UK.
(2)MRC Social, Genetic and Developmental Psychiatry Centre, Institute of 
Psychiatry,King's College London,London,UK.
(3)Mental Health Sciences Unit,University College London,London,UK.

BACKGROUND: Victims of bullying are at risk for psychotic experiences in early 
adolescence. It is unclear if this elevated risk extends into late adolescence. 
The aim of this study was to test whether bullying perpetration and 
victimization in elementary school predict psychotic experiences in late 
adolescence.
METHOD: The current study is based on the Avon Longitudinal Study of Parents and 
Children (ALSPAC), a prospective community-based study. A total of 4720 subjects 
with bullying perpetration and victimization were repeatedly assessed between 
the ages of 8 and 11 years by child and mother reports. Suspected or definite 
psychotic experiences were assessed with the Psychosis-Like Symptoms 
semi-structured interview at age 18 years.
RESULTS: Controlling for child's gender, intelligence quotient at age 8 years, 
childhood behavioural and emotional problems, and also depression symptoms and 
psychotic experiences in early adolescence, victims [child report at 10 years: 
odds ratio (OR) 2.4, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.6-3.4; mother report: OR 
1.6, 95% CI 1.1-2.3], bully/victims (child report at 10 years: OR 3.1, 95% CI 
1.7-5.8; mother: OR 2.9, 95% CI 1.7-5.0) and bullies (child report at 10 years: 
OR 4.9, 95% CI 1.3-17.7; mother: OR 1.2, 95% CI 0.46-3.1, n.s.) had a higher 
prevalence of psychotic experiences at age 18 years. Path analysis revealed that 
the association between peer victimization in childhood and psychotic 
experiences at age 18 years was only partially mediated by psychotic or 
depression symptoms in early adolescence.
CONCLUSIONS: Involvement in bullying, whether as victim, bully/victim or bully, 
may increase the risk of developing psychotic experiences in adolescence. Health 
professionals should ask routinely during consultations with children about 
their bullying of and by peers.

DOI: 10.1017/S0033291713002912
PMID: 24342773 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1500. Personal Ment Health. 2013 May;7(2):143-53. doi: 10.1002/pmh.1221. Epub 2013 Jan 
8.

Bold, smart, dangerous and evil: perceived correlates of core psychopathic 
traits among jury panel members.

Edens JF(1), Clark J, Smith ST, Cox J, Kelley SE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Texas A&M University, College Station, TX, USA.

Relatively few studies have investigated how laypersons perceive psychopathy, 
what factors they believe to be commonly associated with this disorder, or what 
rater personality characteristics might predict perceived psychopathic traits of 
the target person. An ethnically diverse sample of 285 US community members 
attending jury duty reviewed a case vignette regarding a capital murder trial 
and then rated (1) their perceptions of the defendant's psychopathic 
characteristics loosely based on trait indicators from the Psychopathy 
Checklist-Revised; (2) other characteristics of the defendant that might be 
associated with psychopathy (e.g. intelligence, violence potential); and (3) 
their own personality, using a very brief measure of Five Factor traits. 
Multivariate regression analyses indicated that participant ratings of 
psychopathy pertaining to the defendant were strongly associated with ratings on 
measures of his perceived boldness (i.e. social dominance and fearlessness), 
intelligence, violence potential, and perceptions that he was 'evil'. Big Five 
personality characteristics of the layperson raters, however, were only modestly 
associated with their ratings of psychopathy for the defendant. We review these 
results in terms of the potential stigmatization of individuals labelled as 
'psychopaths' in forensic settings.

Copyright © 2013 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/pmh.1221
PMID: 24343940 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1501. Pediatrics. 2014 Jan;133(1):63-70. doi: 10.1542/peds.2013-1187. Epub 2013 Dec 
16.

Antenatal and postnatal growth and 5-year cognitive outcome in very preterm 
infants.

Leppänen M(1), Lapinleimu H, Lind A, Matomäki J, Lehtonen L, Haataja L, Rautava 
P; PIPARI Study Group.

Collaborators: Äärimaa T, Ekblad M, Ekblad S, Ekholm E, Huhtala M, Kero P, Korja 
R, Kujari H, Manninen H, Maunu J, Munck P, Niemi P, Palo P, Parkkola R, Piha J, 
Rautava L, Rikalainen H, Saarinen K, Saunavaara V, Savonlahti E, Setänen S, 
Sillanpää M, Stolt S, Tuomikoski-Koiranen P, Ylijoki M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics, Turku University Hospital, Kiinamyllynkatu 4-8, PO 
Box 52, 20521, Turku, Finland. marika.leppanen@utu.fi.

OBJECTIVES: To study how antenatal growth affects cognitive outcome in very 
preterm infants and to determine whether there is an association between growth 
in any particular time period between birth and 5 years of age and cognitive 
outcome. Small for gestational age (SGA) and non-SGA infants were analyzed 
separately, because antenatal growth may affect postnatal growth.
METHODS: Very low birth weight (<1501 g) infants born between 2001 and 2006 and 
infants born at <32 gestational weeks between 2004 and 2006 who were treated at 
Turku University Hospital (n = 181) were followed. Weight, length, and head 
circumference (HC) of the infants were measured at 9 time points between birth 
and 5 years. The growth was determined as a z score change between measurement 
points. Cognitive development was assessed at 5 years of age with the Wechsler 
Preschool and Primary Scales of Intelligence-Revised. The association between 
growth and full-scale IQ (FSIQ) was studied.
RESULTS: Growth in length and height was not associated with 5-year cognitive 
outcome. However, weight (r = 0.18, P = .04) and HC growth (r = 0.25, P = .01) 
between birth and 2 years of corrected age correlated to FSIQ in non-SGA 
children. In SGA children, HC growth (r = 0.33, P = .03) around term age 
correlated to FSIQ.
CONCLUSIONS: Cognitive outcome was similar in SGA and non-SGA very preterm 
infants. Growth affected cognition positively in both subgroups, but the 
critical time period was different.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.2013-1187
PMID: 24344103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1502. Cogn Neuropsychol. 2013;30(5):332-59. doi: 10.1080/02643294.2013.863756.

Atypical signed language development: a case study of challenges with 
visual-spatial processing.

Quinto-Pozos D(1), Singleton JL, Hauser PC, Levine SC, Garberoglio CL, Hou L.

Author information:
(1)a Department of Linguistics , University of Texas at Austin , Austin , TX , 
USA.

In signed languages, the articulatory space in front of the signer is used 
grammatically, topographically, and to depict a real or imagined space around a 
signer and thus is an important consideration in signed language acquisition. It 
has been suggested that children who acquire signed languages rely on 
concomitant visual-spatial development to support their linguistic development. 
We consider the case of a native-signing deaf adolescent female with average 
intelligence who had been reported to struggle with spatial aspects of American 
Sign Language (ASL) as a child. Results of a battery of linguistic and 
nonlinguistic tests suggest that she has relatively good ASL skills with the 
exception of some specific difficulties on spatial tasks that require attention 
to ASL and nonlinguistic topographic space or changes in visual perspective 
(e.g., classifiers and referential shift). This child has some difficulties with 
visual-spatial abilities, and we suggest that this has affected her acquisition 
of those aspects of ASL that are heavily dependent on visual-spatial processing.

DOI: 10.1080/02643294.2013.863756
PMID: 24344817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1503. Integr Zool. 2013 Dec;8(4):389-94. doi: 10.1111/1749-4877.12036.

A short note on extractive foraging behavior in gray snub-nosed monkeys.

Xiang Z(1), Liang W, Nie S, Li M.

Author information:
(1)College of Life Science and Technology, Central South University of Forestry 
and Technology, Changsha, Hunan, China; Key Lab of Animal Ecology and 
Conservation Biology, Institute of Zoology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 
Beijing, China.

Extractive foraging (EF) involves the exploitation of hidden or embedded foods, 
generally any food that is not visible to the naked eye. Therefore, EF is 
particularly important for survival in marginal habitats as it provides seasonal 
fallback foods in low food availability seasons. Although many studies consider 
primates' EF behavior and category, colobine species are usually categorized as 
non-extractive foragers and few studies quantitatively examine their EF 
behavior. In this study, we examined the EF behavior of one colobine species, 
the gray snub-nosed monkey (Rhinopithecus brelichi), at Yangaoping in 
Fanjingshan National Nature Reserve, Guizhou. We recorded 6 categories of EF 
behaviors. The most frequently sought-out foods were seeds, young bamboo and 
invertebrates. Extracted foods accounted for an average of 26.02% of feeding 
records. As the monkey engages in little EF behavior in the winter when the food 
availability is low, these results seem to do not support the hypothesis that EF 
serves to secure additional resources during lean times in marginal or seasonal 
habitats. According to these findings, we suggest R. brelich should be 
considered as an extractive forager. Our study also highlights the need for 
increased representation of colobines in the EF literature to better inform the 
discussion concerning its link to primate brain evolution.

© 2013 Wiley Publishing Asia Pty Ltd, ISZS and IOZ/CAS.

DOI: 10.1111/1749-4877.12036
PMID: 24344962 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1504. Rev Saude Publica. 2013 Jun;47(3):624-33. doi: 10.1590/s0034-8910.2013047004016.

[Fatality and hospitalization in hemodialysis patients in a health plan].

[Article in Portuguese]

Bersan SA, Amaral CF, Gomes IC, Cherchiglia ML.

OBJECTIVE: To analyze clinical outcomes of patients on hemodialysis linked to 
health care plan provider.
METHODS: Cohort study of hemodialysis events in Belo Horizonte, MG, Southeastern 
Brazil, between 2004 and 2008, based on records from health care plan provider 
databases. The independent variables were: sex, age, time between first 
appointment with nephrologist and starting hemodialysis, type of first vascular 
access, diabetes mellitus, length of time spent in hospital/year of treatment 
and death.
DEPENDENT VARIABLES: time between starting hemodialysis and death and length of 
time spent in hospital/year of treatment > 7.5 days. Statistical analysis was 
carried out using Pearson's Chi-squared test in the univariate analysis for the 
outcomes 'death' and 'length of time spent in hospital/year of treatment'; the 
Kaplan-Meier method was used to analyze survival; the Cox model and Poisson 
regression were used for risk of death and chance of length of time spent in 
hospital/year of treatment > 7.5 days. The Business Intelligence tool and 
Stata(r) 10.0 software were used to extract data.
RESULTS: There were 311 patients on hemodialysis included in the study, with a 
mean age of 62 (sd 16.6 years), of whom 55.5% were male. Prevalence increased 
160% during the period in question. Survival analysis showed a higher mortality 
among older patients, patients that did not consult a nephrologists, those whose 
first vascular access was using a temporary catheter, those with diabetes 
mellitus, those admitted to hospital within a month of beginning hemodialysis. 
The Cox model showed that a higher risk of death was associated with age, 
diabetes mellitus, not consulting a nephrologists and those that were 
hospitalized within a month of beginning hemodialysis. Greater length of time 
spent in hospital/year of treatment was not associated with sex or diabetes. 
According to Poisson regression, the variables were not significant.
CONCLUSIONS: Assessment by a specialist before starting hemodialysis decreases 
the risk of death in cases of chronic kidney disease, whereas the presence of 
diabetes and being hospitalized within a month of beginning hemodialysis are 
markers of risk of death.

DOI: 10.1590/s0034-8910.2013047004016
PMID: 24346576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1505. Am J Perinatol. 2014 Nov;31(10):845-50. doi: 10.1055/s-0033-1363164. Epub 2013 
Dec 17.

High aspartate aminotransferase level predicts poor neurodevelopmental outcome 
in infants with meconium aspiration syndrome.

Chen IL(1), Ou-Yang MC(1), Chen FS(1), Chung MY(1), Chen CC(1), Huang HC(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Neonatology, Department of Pediatrics, Kaohsiung Chang Gung 
Memorial Hospital, Chang Gung University College of Medicine, Kaohsiung, Taiwan.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of our study is to clarify the perinatal predictive factors 
of meconium aspiration syndrome (MAS) with neurodevelopmental delay (ND) in 
infants.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In this retrospective study, data were collected from the 
infants born between 1990 and 2008. They all had primary diagnosis of MAS. 
Multivariable analyzed perinatal predictive factors of MAS with ND. The 
developmental status of these infants was followed at least 2 years with the 
Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children.
RESULTS: A total of 114 surviving babies met the criteria of MAS. Six babies 
were defined as ND group. Lower 5-minute Apgar score and diastolic blood 
pressure were significantly related to the ND group. Elevated asparatate 
aminotransferase (AST), nucleated red blood cells, and white blood cells at the 
time of admission were significantly high in ND group. Furthermore, AST had area 
under the receiver operating characteristic curve of 0.879, (95% confidence 
interval: 0.801, 0.934), p < 0.0001. At 96 mg/dL, it had 83.33% sensitivity, 
80.81% specificity, and negative predictive value of 98.8. Multivariable 
logistic regression analysis revealed AST was the only significant predictive 
factor for MAS with ND.
CONCLUSION: Early intervention should be recommended in infants having MAS with 
high AST level at birth for improving their neurodevelopmental outcomes.

Thieme Medical Publishers 333 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10001, USA.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0033-1363164
PMID: 24347255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1506. J Neurosci Rural Pract. 2013 Oct;4(4):408-12. doi: 10.4103/0976-3147.120241.

Intelligence quotient is associated with epilepsy in children with intellectual 
disability in India.

Lakhan R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Health Sciences, 
College of Public Service, Jackson State University, Jackson, MS, USA.

BACKGROUND: Epilepsy is a disorder that is commonly found in people with 
intellectual disability (ID). The prevalence of epilepsy increases with the 
severity of ID. The objective of this study was to determine if there is an 
association between intelligence quotient (IQ) and epilepsy in children with ID.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 262 children, aged 3-18 years, with ID were 
identified as part of a community-based rehabilitation project. These children 
were examined for epilepsy and diagnosed by a psychiatrist and physicians based 
on results of electroencephalogram tests. A Spearman's correlation (ρ) was used 
to determine if there was an association between IQ scores and the occurrence of 
epilepsy. X(2) statistics used to examine the relationship of epilepsy with 
gender, socioeconomic status, population type, severity of ID, family history of 
mental illness, mental retardation, epilepsy, and coexisting disorder.
RESULTS: Spearman's rho -0.605 demonstrates inverse association of IQ with 
epilepsy. X(2) demonstrates statistically significant association (P < 0.05) 
with gender, severity of ID, cerebral palsy, behavior problems, and family 
history of mental illness, mental retardation, and epilepsy.
CONCLUSIONS: Lower IQ score in children with ID has association with occurrence 
of epilepsy. Epilepsy is also found highly associated with male gender and lower 
age.

DOI: 10.4103/0976-3147.120241
PMCID: PMC3858759
PMID: 24347947

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None declared.


1507. Case Rep Neurol. 2013 Nov 7;5(3):195-200. doi: 10.1159/000356292. eCollection 
2013.

Multiple vascular accidents including rupture of a sinus of valsalva aneurysm, a 
minor ischemic stroke and intracranial arterial anomaly in a patient with 
systemic congenital abnormalities: a case report.

Nakajima M(1), Abe A(1), Nishiyama Y(1), Harada-Abe M(1), Kutsuna A(1), Goto 
Y(1), Okubo S(1), Mishina M(1), Katsura K(1), Katayama Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Neurology, Department of Internal Medicine, Nippon Medical 
School, Tokyo, Japan.

A 39-year-old man with a history of rupture of a sinus of Valsalva aneurysm 
experienced an ischemic stroke. Although the patient presented left-sided 
hemiparesis for a week, no abnormal signals were indicated on diffusion-weighted 
imaging with repeated magnetic resonance scans. Carotid ultrasound and cerebral 
angiography were conducted, and they revealed hypoplasty of the left internal 
carotid artery with a low-lying carotid bifurcation at the level of the C6 
vertebra. In addition, he was diagnosed with intellectual disabilities, 
evaluated by the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-III, and congenital 
velopharyngeal insufficiency. We herein present the first report of a patient 
with cardio-cerebrovascular abnormalities, intellectual disabilities, and an 
otorhinolaryngological abnormality.

DOI: 10.1159/000356292
PMCID: PMC3843907
PMID: 24348399


1508. PLoS One. 2013 Dec 12;8(12):e81189. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0081189. 
eCollection 2013.

Complex variation in measures of general intelligence and cognitive change.

Rowe SJ(1), Rowlatt A(1), Davies G(2), Harris SE(3), Porteous DJ(3), Liewald 
DC(2), McNeill G(4), Starr JM(5), Deary IJ(6), Tenesa A(7).

Author information:
(1)The Roslin Institute, The University of Edinburgh, Roslin, Scotland, United 
Kingdom.
(2)Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, University of 
Edinburgh, Edinburgh, Scotland, United Kingdom.
(3)Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, University of 
Edinburgh, Edinburgh, Scotland, United Kingdom ; Medical Genetics Section, The 
University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, Scotland, United Kingdom.
(4)Institute of Applied Health Sciences, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, 
Scotland, United Kingdom.
(5)Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, University of 
Edinburgh, Edinburgh, Scotland, United Kingdom ; Alzheimer Scotland Dementia 
Research Centre, The University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, Scotland, United 
Kingdom.
(6)Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, University of 
Edinburgh, Edinburgh, Scotland, United Kingdom ; Department of Psychology, 
University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, Scotland, United Kingdom.
(7)The Roslin Institute, The University of Edinburgh, Roslin, Scotland, United 
Kingdom ; Medical Research Council Human Genetics Unit at the Medical Research 
Council Institute of Genetics and Molecular Medicine, University of Edinburgh, 
Edinburgh, Scotland, United Kingdom.

Combining information from multiple SNPs may capture a greater amount of genetic 
variation than from the sum of individual SNP effects and help identifying 
missing heritability. Regions may capture variation from multiple common 
variants of small effect, multiple rare variants or a combination of both. We 
describe regional heritability mapping of human cognition. Measures of 
crystallised (gc) and fluid intelligence (gf) in late adulthood (64-79 years) 
were available for 1806 individuals genotyped for 549,692 autosomal single 
nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). The same individuals were tested at age 11, 
enabling us the rare opportunity to measure cognitive change across most of 
their lifespan. 547,750 SNPs ranked by position are divided into 10, 908 
overlapping regions of 101 SNPs to estimate the genetic variance each region 
explains, an approach that resembles classical linkage methods. We also estimate 
the genetic variation explained by individual autosomes and by SNPs within 
genes. Empirical significance thresholds are estimated separately for each trait 
from whole genome scans of 500 permutated data sets. The 5% significance 
threshold for the likelihood ratio test of a single region ranged from 17-17.5 
for the three traits. This is the equivalent to nominal significance under the 
expectation of a chi-squared distribution (between 1 df and 0) of P<1.44×10(-5). 
These thresholds indicate that the distribution of the likelihood ratio test 
from this type of variance component analysis should be estimated empirically. 
Furthermore, we show that estimates of variation explained by these regions can 
be grossly overestimated. After applying permutation thresholds, a region for gf 
on chromosome 5 spanning the PRRC1 gene is significant at a genome-wide 10% 
empirical threshold. Analysis of gene methylation on the temporal cortex 
provides support for the association of PRRC1 and fluid intelligence 
(P = 0.004), and provides a prime candidate gene for high throughput sequencing 
of these uniquely informative cohorts.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0081189
PMCID: PMC3865348
PMID: 24349040 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


1509. PLoS One. 2013 Dec 11;8(12):e82031. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0082031. 
eCollection 2013.

Psychosocial functioning and intelligence both partly explain socioeconomic 
inequalities in premature death. A population-based male cohort study.

Falkstedt D(1), Sorjonen K(2), Hemmingsson T(3), Deary IJ(4), Melin B(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health Sciences, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, 
Sweden ; Division of Psychology, Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Karolinska 
Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
(2)Division of Psychology, Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Karolinska 
Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
(3)Institute of Environmental Medicine, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden 
; Centre for Social Research on Alcohol and Drugs, Stockholm University, 
Stockholm, Sweden.
(4)Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, Department of 
Psychology, The University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, United Kingdom.

OBJECTIVE: The possible contributions of psychosocial functioning and 
intelligence differences to socioeconomic status (SES)-related inequalities in 
premature death were investigated. None of the previous studies focusing on 
inequalities in mortality has included measures of both psychosocial functioning 
and intelligence.
METHODS: The study was based on a cohort of 49 321 men born 1949-1951 from the 
general community in Sweden. Data on psychosocial functioning and intelligence 
from military conscription at ∼18 years of age were linked with register data on 
education, occupational class, and income at 35-39 years of age. Psychosocial 
functioning was rated by psychologists as a summary measure of differences in 
level of activity, power of initiative, independence, and emotional stability. 
Intelligence was measured through a multidimensional test. Causes of death 
between 40 and 57 years of age were followed in registers.
RESULTS: The estimated inequalities in all-cause mortality by education and 
occupational class were attenuated with 32% (95% confidence interval: 20-45%) 
and 41% (29-52%) after adjustments for individual psychological differences; 
both psychosocial functioning and intelligence contributed to account for the 
inequalities. The inequalities in cardiovascular and injury mortality were 
attenuated by as much as 51% (24-76%) and 52% (35-68%) after the same 
adjustments, and the inequalities in alcohol-related mortality were attenuated 
by up to 33% (8-59%). Less of the inequalities were accounted for when those 
were measured by level of income, with which intelligence had a weaker 
correlation. The small SES-related inequalities in cancer mortality were not 
attenuated by adjustment for intelligence.
CONCLUSIONS: Differences in psychosocial functioning and intelligence might both 
contribute to the explanation of observed SES-related inequalities in premature 
death, but the magnitude of their contributions likely varies with measure of 
socioeconomic status and cause of death. Both psychosocial functioning and 
intelligence should be considered in future studies.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0082031
PMCID: PMC3859588
PMID: 24349174 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


1510. Epilepsy Behav. 2014 Feb;31:50-5. doi: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2013.11.013. Epub 2013 
Dec 15.

Neuropsychological abnormalities in children with the Panayiotopoulos syndrome 
point to parietal lobe dysfunction.

Lopes R(1), Simões MR(2), Leal AJ(3).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Psychology and Educational Sciences, University of Coimbra, 
Coimbra, Portugal. Electronic address: r.lopes@clix.pt.
(2)Faculty of Psychology and Educational Sciences, University of Coimbra, 
Coimbra, Portugal.
(3)Instituto Universitário de Lisboa (ISCTE-IUL), Cis-IUL, Lisboa, Portugal; 
Department of Neurophysiology, Centro Hospitalar Psiquiatrico de Lisboa, Lisbon, 
Portugal; Department of Pediatric Neurology, Centro Hospitalar Lisboa Central, 
Portugal.

Panayiotopoulos syndrome (PS) is a common epilepsy syndrome associated with rare 
clinical seizures and unknown localization of the epileptogenic area. Despite 
findings of normal development in patients with PS, recent neuropsychological 
studies point to subtle and diverse cognitive impairments. No well-outlined 
hypothesis about the localization of the brain dysfunction responsible for these 
impairments has been proposed. We further explored the cognitive dysfunctions in 
PS and made inferences on the most likely anatomical localization of brain 
impairment. A group of 19 patients (aged 6-12) with PS was rated according to 
spike activity and lateralization. The patients were submitted to a 
neuropsychological evaluation to assess general intelligence, memory, language, 
visual-perceptual abilities, attention, and executive functions. Using 
35-channel scalp EEG recordings, the N170 face-evoked event-related potential 
(ERP) was obtained to assess the functional integrity of the ventral pathway. 
All patients with PS showed normal IQ but subtle and consistent neurocognitive 
impairments. Namely, we found abnormalities in the copy task of the 
Rey-Osterrieth Complex Figure and in the Narrative Memory Test. There was no 
correlation between neuropsychological impairments with spike activity and 
hemispheric spike lateralization. The N170 ERP was normal in all patients except 
for one. Our neuropsychological findings demonstrate impairments in 
visual-perceptual abilities and in semantic processing. These findings, paired 
with the absence of occipital lobe dysfunction in all neuropsychological studies 
of PS performed to this date, support the existence of parietal lobe 
dysfunction.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2013.11.013
PMID: 24351962 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1511. Pak J Med Sci. 2013 May;29(3):710-4. doi: 10.12669/pjms.293.3642.

Educating tomorrow's doctors: A cross sectional survey of emotional intelligence 
and empathy in medical students of Lahore.

Imran N(1), Awais Aftab M(2), Haider II(3), Farhat A(4).

Author information:
(1)Dr. Nazish Imran, MBBS; MRCPsych (London), Associate Professor, Child & 
Family Psychiatry Department, King Edward Medical University/Mayo Hospital, 
Lahore, Pakistan.
(2)Dr. Muhammad Awais Aftab, MBBS, House Officer, Child & Family Psychiatry 
Department, King Edward Medical University/Mayo Hospital, Lahore, Pakistan.
(3)Dr. Imran Ijaz Haider, MBBS; MRCPsych (London); DPM (England), Associate 
Professor, Department of Psychiatry& Behavioral Sciences, Fatima Memorial 
College of Medicine and Dentistry, Lahore, Pakistan. Child & Family Psychiatry 
Department, King Edward Medical University/Mayo Hospital, Lahore, Pakistan.
(4)Dr. Anam Farhat, MBBS, House Officer, Child & Family Psychiatry Department, 
King Edward Medical University/Mayo Hospital, Lahore, Pakistan.

OBJECTIVE: Medical education in Pakistan traditionally emphasizes physician's 
biomedical knowledge with less emphasis on interpersonal skills and ability to 
relate to the patients. This study explored the emotional intelligence & empathy 
of undergraduate medical students and investigated its relationship with various 
factors to act as baseline for future work in this area.
METHODOLOGY: The Schutte Emotional Intelligence scale and Davis' Interpersonal 
Reactivity Index in addition to socio demographic questionnaire were 
administered to first year and final year medical undergraduates of two medical 
Institutions in Lahore, Pakistan. Data was analyzed by using SPSS 17 version.
RESULTS: The overall mean scores for medical students both on emotional 
intelligence and empathy is significantly lower than that found in previous 
literature, highlighting that medical students do not appear to fare better than 
average people in EQ. Women showed statistically significant higher scores on 
Appraisal of emotions , Regulation of emotions, Empathic concern Scale & 
Personal distress scale. Comparison of EI & IRI of students according to medical 
college year did not show any statistical significance.
CONCLUSION: Current medical curriculum and training in Pakistan does not appear 
to increase EI abilities which are building blocks that may allow students and 
residents to develop competence. Medical educators in Pakistan should look for 
ways to incorporate emotional intelligence in medical curriculum which will 
ultimately contribute towards patient centered practice, patient satisfaction as 
well as effective communication skills.

DOI: 10.12669/pjms.293.3642
PMCID: PMC3809307
PMID: 24353613


1512. Psychol Sci. 2014 Feb;25(2):619-25. doi: 10.1177/0956797613510949. Epub 2013 Dec 
19.

Self-affirmation among the poor: cognitive and behavioral implications.

Hall CC(1), Zhao J, Shafir E.

Author information:
(1)1Evans School of Public Affairs, University of Washington.

The poor are universally stigmatized. The stigma of poverty includes being 
perceived as incompetent and feeling shunned and disrespected. It can lead to 
cognitive distancing, diminish cognitive performance, and cause the poor to 
forego beneficial programs. In the present research, we examined how 
self-affirmation can mitigate the stigma of poverty through randomized field 
experiments involving low-income individuals at an inner-city soup kitchen. 
Because of low literacy levels, we used an oral rather than written affirmation 
procedure, in which participants verbally described a personal experience that 
made them feel successful or proud. Compared with nonaffirmed participants, 
affirmed individuals exhibited better executive control, higher fluid 
intelligence, and a greater willingness to avail themselves of benefits 
programs. The effects were not driven by elevated positive mood, and the same 
intervention did not affect the performance of wealthy participants. The 
findings suggest that self-affirmation can improve the cognitive performance and 
decisions of the poor, and it may have important policy implications.

DOI: 10.1177/0956797613510949
PMID: 24357617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1513. PLoS One. 2013 Dec 17;8(12):e84375. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0084375. 
eCollection 2013.

Pathway evidence of how musical perception predicts word-level reading ability 
in children with reading difficulties.

Cogo-Moreira H(1), Brandão de Ávila CR(2), Ploubidis GB(3), de Jesus Mari J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Medical Psychology, Federal University of São 
Paulo, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil.
(2)Department of Hearing and Speech Pathology, Federal University of Sao Paulo, 
Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil.
(3)  Department of Population Health, London School of Hygiene and Tropical 
Medicine, London, United Kingdom.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate whether specific domains of musical perception 
(temporal and melodic domains) predict the word-level reading skills of eight- 
to ten-year-old children (n = 235) with reading difficulties, normal quotient of 
intelligence, and no previous exposure to music education classes.
METHOD: A general-specific solution of the Montreal Battery of Evaluation of 
Amusia (MBEA), which underlies a musical perception construct and is constituted 
by three latent factors (the general, temporal, and the melodic domain), was 
regressed on word-level reading skills (rate of correct isolated words/non-words 
read per minute).
RESULTS: General and melodic latent domains predicted word-level reading skills.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0084375
PMCID: PMC3866178
PMID: 24358358 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


1514. Radiol Manage. 2013;Suppl:11-6.

How healthcare leaders can increase emotional intelligence.

Scott J(1).

Author information:
(1)Witham Health Services, Lebanon, IN, USA. jscott@witham.org

How leaders deal with a variety of feelings will deduce how successful they are 
in dealing with the daily challenges of being in a leadership position. 
Successful healthcare leaders are those who lead with heart and possess the soft 
skills needed to positively influence others. All humans have two minds: the 
rational one and the emotional one, which operate in tight harmony to assist in 
decision making. When passions surge, the emotional mind takes over and 
sometimes makes a decision before the rational mind has time to react. Some 
strategies to help leaders strengthen emotional intelligence include keeping an 
emotional journal, daily meditation, positive visualization, appreciative 
inquiry, thought before action, and empathetic listening. Four skills that will 
enhance an individual's emotional intelligence include self awareness, self 
management, social management, and relationship management.

PMID: 24358581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1515. Appl Ergon. 2014 Jul;45(4):967-75. doi: 10.1016/j.apergo.2013.11.012. Epub 2013 
Dec 18.

Safety intelligence: an exploration of senior managers' characteristics.

Fruhen LS(1), Mearns KJ(2), Flin R(2), Kirwan B(3).

Author information:
(1)University of Aberdeen, King's College, School of Psychology, Old Aberdeen 
AB24 3UB, Scotland, UK. Electronic address: l.fruhen@abdn.ac.uk.
(2)University of Aberdeen, King's College, School of Psychology, Old Aberdeen 
AB24 3UB, Scotland, UK.
(3)EUROCONTROL, Experimental Centre, Centre Bois des Bordes, 91220 
Brétigny-sur-Orge, France.

Senior managers can have a strong influence on organisational safety. But little 
is known about which of their personal attributes support their impact on 
safety. In this paper, we introduce the concept of 'safety intelligence' as 
related to senior managers' ability to develop and enact safety policies and 
explore possible characteristics related to it in two studies. Study 1 (N = 76) 
involved direct reports to chief executive officers (CEOs) of European air 
traffic management (ATM) organisations, who completed a short questionnaire 
asking about characteristics and behaviours that are ideal for a CEO's influence 
on safety. Study 2 involved senior ATM managers (N = 9) in various positions in 
interviews concerning their day-to-day work on safety. Both studies indicated 
six attributes of senior managers as relevant for their safety intelligence, 
particularly, social competence and safety knowledge, followed by motivation, 
problem-solving, personality and interpersonal leadership skills. These results 
have recently been applied in guidance for safety management practices in a 
White Paper published by EUROCONTROL.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd and The Ergonomics Society. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.apergo.2013.11.012
PMID: 24359975 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1516. Prog Neuropsychopharmacol Biol Psychiatry. 2014 Apr 3;50:110-5. doi: 
10.1016/j.pnpbp.2013.12.010. Epub 2013 Dec 19.

Genetic modulation of working memory deficits by ankyrin 3 gene in 
schizophrenia.

Zhang C(1), Cai J(2), Zhang J(3), Li Z(4), Guo Z(3), Zhang X(5), Lu W(2), Zhang 
Y(2), Yuan A(6), Yu S(7), Fang Y(8).

Author information:
(1)Schizophrenia Program, Shanghai Mental Health Center, Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China; Key Laboratory of Animal Models 
and Human Disease Mechanisms of the Chinese Academy of Sciences & Yunnan 
Province, Kunming Institute of Zoology, Kunming, Yunnan, China.
(2)Schizophrenia Program, Shanghai Mental Health Center, Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(3)Tongde Hospital of Zhejiang Province, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China.
(4)Department of Neurology, Shanghai Changhai Hospital, Secondary Military 
Medical University, Shanghai, China.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, Tongji Hospital, Tongji University School of 
Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(6)Department of Genetics, Shanghai Mental Health Center, Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(7)Department of Genetics, Shanghai Mental Health Center, Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China. Electronic address: 
yushuny@yahoo.com.
(8)Division of Mood Disorders, Shanghai Mental Health Center, Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China. Electronic address: 
yirufang@aliyun.com.

Neuropsychological endophenotype approach is an emerging strategy in 
schizophrenia research to understand and identify the functional importance of 
genetically transmitted, brain-based deficits present in this disorder. 
Accumulating evidence indicated that working memory deficit is a core 
neuropsychological dysfunction in schizophrenia and a primary endophenotype 
indexing the liability to develop schizophrenia. Genetic variation in ankyrin 3 
gene (ANK3) is likely to have widespread cognitive effects. Our previous study 
has identified a significant association of ANK3 SNPs and schizophrenia. In this 
study, we aimed to examine whether the schizophrenia-risk SNPs within ANK3 may 
affect working memory deficits in schizophrenia patients. Herein, we assess the 
working memory performance in 163 patients with first-episode, 
antipsychotic-naïve schizophrenia and 42 sex, age-matched healthy subjects using 
N-back task. Two SNPs rs10761482 and rs10994336 were genotyped among the 
patients and 209 controls. Our results showed that schizophrenia patients showed 
significantly poorer performance than healthy controls on N-back task (ps<0.01). 
After adjusting for the scores of intelligence quotient, memory quotient and the 
demographic factors, there was a significant genotype effect of the rs10994336 
on the accuracy rate and reaction time of 2-back item (p=0.048 and 0.024, 
respectively). Post-hoc analyses showed that patients with rs10994336T/T 
genotype had significantly lower accuracy rate and more reaction time at 2-back 
task than those with T/C and C/C genotypes. The association of SNP rs10994336 
with schizophrenia was replicated in our sample (genotypic p=0.024 and allelic 
p=0.006). However, we did not find any significant association of rs10761482 
with schizophrenia and parameters in N-back task. Our results indicated that 
genetic variation within ANK3 may exert gene-specific modulating effects on 
working memory deficits in schizophrenia.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pnpbp.2013.12.010
PMID: 24361380 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1517. Res Dev Disabil. 2014 Feb;35(2):463-71. doi: 10.1016/j.ridd.2013.11.020. Epub 
2013 Dec 20.

Comparison of two nonverbal intelligence tests among children who are deaf or 
hard-of-hearing.

Phillips J(1), Wiley S(1), Barnard H(1), Meinzen-Derr J(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Developmental and Behavioral Pediatrics, Cincinnati Children's 
Hospital Medical Center, University of Cincinnati College of Medicine, 
Cincinnati, OH, United States.
(2)Division of Biostatistics and Epidemiology, Cincinnati Children's Hospital 
Medical Center, University of Cincinnati College of Medicine, Cincinnati, OH, 
United States. Electronic address: Jareen.Meinzen-Derr@cchmc.org.

The primary goal of the current study is to evaluate the concurrent validity of 
the Leiter International Performance Scale-Revised (Leiter-R Brief IQ) and 
Differential Ability Scales - Second Edition (DAS-II Nonverbal Reasoning Index) 
in a group of children who are deaf or hard-of-hearing. Knowing the breadth of 
cognitive tools appropriate for use in children who are deaf or hard-of-hearing 
is highly beneficial, given that clinical and school psychologists are often 
challenged to reliably assess cognitive functions in the context of hearing 
loss. Participants included 54 children between three and six years of age with 
permanent bilateral hearing loss. As part of the study, neurocognitive 
assessments were conducted by a pediatric neuropsychologist or licensed clinical 
psychologist with extensive experience administering assessments to children 
with developmental disabilities, including children with hearing loss. The 
Leiter-R Brief IQ score was similar to the DAS-II nonverbal reasoning index, 
with no significant difference in the mean scores across the two assessments. 
The severity of hearing loss was not correlated to either the Leiter-R or the 
DAS-II nonverbal IQ. Nearly a quarter of the children evaluated had meaningful 
intra-individual differences between scores on the Leiter-R and DAS-II that were 
more than one standard deviation from one another. Conducting accurate 
intellectual assessments in children who are deaf and hard-of-hearing is 
fundamental in determining and designing interventions and educational services. 
More comprehensive neuropsychological test batteries utilizing several tasks to 
assess a single domain (such as nonverbal reasoning) may be warranted for 
children who are deaf or hard-of-hearing.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ridd.2013.11.020
PMID: 24361815 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1518. Srp Arh Celok Lek. 2013 Sep-Oct;141(9-10):676-9. doi: 10.2298/sarh1310676r.

Pseudoachondroplasia: a case report.

Radlović V(1), Smoljanić Z(2), Radlović N(2), Jakovljević M(3), Leković Z(2), 
Ducić S(2), Pavićević P(2).

Author information:
(1)University Children's Hospital, Belgrade, Serbia. vladar@beotel.net
(2)University Children's Hospital, Belgrade, Serbia.
(3)Child and Youth Health Care Institute of Vojvodina, Novi Sad, Serbia.

INTRODUCTION: Pseudoachondroplasia (PSACH) is an autosomal dominant 
osteochondrodysplasia due to mutations in the gene encoding cartilage oligomeric 
matrix protein. It is characterized by rhizomelic dwarfism, limb and vertebral 
deformity, joint laxity and early onset osteoarthrosis. We present the girl with 
the early expressed and severe PSACH born to clinically and radiographically 
unaffected parents.
CASE OUTLINE: A 6.5-year-old girl presented with short-limbed dwarfism (body 
height 79.5 cm, < P5;-32%) and normal craniofacial appearance and intelligence. 
The girl was normal until 3 months of age when she expressed growth retardation 
with apparently shorter extremities in relation to the torso. With age, her 
rhizomelic dwarfism became increasingly visible, and since completed 15 months 
of age, when she started to walk, the disease was complicated with genu varum, 
lumbar lordosis and abnormal gait. Beside visibly short forearms, short, broad 
and ulnar deviation of the hands, brachydactyly and joint hyperlaxity, the 
radiographic picture showed markedly flared metaphyses, small and irregular 
epiphyses and poorly formed acetabulum.
CONCLUSION: PSACH is an achondroplasia-like rhizomelic dwarfism recognized by 
the absence of abnormality at birth, normal craniofacial appearance, 
characteristic epiphyseal and metaphyseal radiographic finding and joint 
hyperlaxity.

DOI: 10.2298/sarh1310676r
PMID: 24364233 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1519. Psychol Aging. 2013 Dec;28(4):958-68. doi: 10.1037/a0033787.

Adolescent self-organization predicts midlife memory in a prospective birth 
cohort study.

Xu MK(1), Jones PB(1), Barnett JH(1), Gaysina D(2), Kuh D(3), Croudace TJ(1), 
Richards M(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Cambridge.
(2)School of Psychology, University of Leicester.
(3)MRC Unit for Lifelong Health and Ageing.

Childhood and adolescent mental health have a lasting impact on adult life 
chances, with strong implications for subsequent health, including cognitive 
aging. Using the British 1946 birth cohort, the authors tested associations 
between adolescent conduct problems, emotional problems and aspects of 
self-organization, and verbal memory at 43 years and rate of decline in verbal 
memory from 43 to 60-64 years. After controlling for childhood intelligence, 
adolescent self-organization was positively associated with verbal memory at 43 
years, mainly through educational attainment, although not with rate of memory 
decline. Associations between adolescent conduct and emotional problems and 
future memory were of negligible magnitude. It has been suggested that 
interventions to improve self-organization may save a wide range of societal 
costs; this study also suggests that this might also benefit cognitive function 
in later life.

PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2013 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/a0033787
PMCID: PMC3906799
PMID: 24364401 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1520. Ann Agric Environ Med. 2013;20(4):803-6.

Motor skills, cognitive development and balance functions of children with Down 
syndrome.

Malak R(1), Kotwicka M(2), Krawczyk-Wasielewska A(1), Mojs E(3), Samborski W(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Rheumatology and Rehabilitation, Poznan University of Medical 
Science, Poland.
(2)Department of Cell Biology, Poznan University of Medical Science, Poland.
(3)Department of Clinical Psychology, Poznan University of Medical Science, 
Poland.

INTRODUCTION AND OBJECTIVES: Motor and cognitive development of children with 
Down syndrome (DS) is delayed and inharmonic. Neuro-muscular abnormalities, such 
as hypotonia, retained primary reflexes, and slow performance of volitional 
reaction, result in difficulties with body balance. The aim of the presented 
study is to assess the global motor functions and body balance of children with 
DS in relation to age and mental development.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The study group consisted of 79 children with DS (42 boys, 
37 girls), average age 6 years and 3 months ± 4 years and 6 months. Participants 
were divided according to age range into 3 groups: < 3 years old, 3-6 years old, 
> 6 years old. Children were assessed using Gross Motor Function Measure-88 
(GMFM-88) and Paediatric Balance Scale (PBS). Psychological diagnosis served to 
determine the degree of mental development using the Brunet-Lezine Scale for 
children younger than 3 years old, and the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for 
Children (WISC) for those who are older than 3 years. Nine children in research 
group had not been diagnosed by psychologists, which is the reason why the 
analysis referring to mental development was performed in 70 children (34 girls, 
36 boys), with an average age of 4 years and 6 months.
RESULTS: GMFM-88 scores were significantly lower in children with moderate 
psychomotor delay than in children with mild psychomotor delay, or normally 
developed children, p=0.043. GMFM-88 scores in children with profound mental 
impairment were lower than in children with mild or moderate mental impairment. 
There was a statistical significant correlation between GMFM-88 scores and the 
PBS scores, r= 0.7, p<0.0001.
CONCLUSIONS: Motor development of children with Down syndrome from towns and 
villages in the Greater Poland region is associated with cognitive development, 
especially in the first three years of life, with the balance functions being 
closely related to motor skills.

PMID: 24364457 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1521. Schizophr Res. 2014 Feb;152(2-3):415-20. doi: 10.1016/j.schres.2013.11.002. Epub 
2013 Dec 21.

Subjects at Ultra High Risk for psychosis have 'heterogeneous' intellectual 
functioning profile: a multiple-case study.

Magaud E(1), Morvan Y(2), Rampazzo A(3), Alexandre C(3), Willard D(3), Gaillard 
R(3), Kazes M(4), Krebs MO(3).

Author information:
(1)Université Paris Descartes, PRES Paris Sorbonne Cité, INSERM, Laboratoire de 
Physiopathologie des Maladies Psychiatriques, Centre de Psychiatrie et 
Neurosciences, UMR 894, Paris, France; Hôpital Sainte-Anne, Centre d'évaluation 
des Jeunes Adultes et Adolescents (C'JAAD), Service Hospitalo-Universitaire, 
Faculté de Médecine Paris Descartes, Paris, France. Electronic address: 
emagaud@ucalgary.ca.
(2)Université Paris Descartes, PRES Paris Sorbonne Cité, INSERM, Laboratoire de 
Physiopathologie des Maladies Psychiatriques, Centre de Psychiatrie et 
Neurosciences, UMR 894, Paris, France; Laboratoire Cognition, Santé, 
Socialisation, C2S, EA6291, Université de Reims Champagne-Ardenne, France.
(3)Université Paris Descartes, PRES Paris Sorbonne Cité, INSERM, Laboratoire de 
Physiopathologie des Maladies Psychiatriques, Centre de Psychiatrie et 
Neurosciences, UMR 894, Paris, France; Hôpital Sainte-Anne, Centre d'évaluation 
des Jeunes Adultes et Adolescents (C'JAAD), Service Hospitalo-Universitaire, 
Faculté de Médecine Paris Descartes, Paris, France.
(4)Hôpital Sainte-Anne, Centre d'évaluation des Jeunes Adultes et Adolescents 
(C'JAAD), Service Hospitalo-Universitaire, Faculté de Médecine Paris Descartes, 
Paris, France.

In Ultra High Risk (UHR) studies, intellectual functioning is commonly assessed 
using premorbid IQ tools as a covariate. The aim of this study was to show that 
the use of the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale (WAIS) could yield accurate 
neuropsychological profiling and that an alternative approach such as a 
multiple-case study could be a more interesting way to isolate discrete 
cognitive processes in the early stage of illness. The studied population 
consisted of 198 adolescents and young adults (16-30 y.o.) referred to our 
outpatient clinic. After the CAARMS' interview, we defined 3 subgroups: UHR 
(N=104), First Episode (FE; N=30), and Help-Seekers (HS; N=64) who were neither 
UHR nor psychotic. Intellectual functioning was assessed by the WAIS-III (9 
subtests version) and 'heterogeneous' intellectual profiles were defined based 
on the existence of a 3-point difference in scoring at subtests constitutive of 
the same WAIS index. While UHR did not differ from FE or HS on WAIS' scores and 
sub-scores, the multiple-case study indicated a higher proportion of 
'heterogeneous' profiles in the Verbal Comprehension Index in the UHR sample 
than in FE and HS (p=0.04). The disease progression could heterogeneously impact 
on specific domains, in patterns depending on the stage of the illness. This 
approach exploring intra-subject WAIS performances might be more relevant than 
the use of global scores in detecting the subtle cognitive alteration of 
emerging psychosis.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.schres.2013.11.002
PMID: 24365404 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1522. Psychol Med. 2014 Jul;44(10):2163-76. doi: 10.1017/S0033291713002973. Epub 2013 
Dec 23.

Psychosis prevalence and physical, metabolic and cognitive co-morbidity: data 
from the second Australian national survey of psychosis.

Morgan VA(1), McGrath JJ(2), Jablensky A(3), Badcock JC(4), Waterreus A(1), Bush 
R(5), Carr V(6), Castle D(7), Cohen M(8), Galletly C(9), Harvey C(7), Hocking 
B(10), McGorry P(7), Neil AL(11), Saw S(12), Shah S(1), Stain HJ(13), Mackinnon 
A(14).

Author information:
(1)Neuropsychiatric Epidemiology Research Unit, School of Psychiatry and 
Clinical Neurosciences,The University of Western Australia,Crawley, 
WA,Australia.
(2)Queensland Brain Institute,The University of Queensland,Brisbane, 
QLD,Australia.
(3)Centre for Clinical Research in Neuropsychiatry, School of Psychiatry and 
Clinical Neurosciences,The University of Western Australia,Crawley, 
WA,Australia.
(4)School of Psychology,The University of Western Australia,Crawley,Western 
Australia.
(5)School of Population Health,The University of Queensland,Ipswich, 
QLD,Australia.
(6)School of Psychiatry,The University of New South Wales,Sydney, NSW,Australia.
(7)Department of Psychiatry,The University of Melbourne,Melbourne, 
VIC,Australia.
(8)Hunter New England Mental Health, Newcastle, NSW,Australia.
(9)School of Medicine,University of Adelaide,Adelaide, SA,Australia.
(10)SANE Australia, Melbourne, VIC,Australia.
(11)Menzies Research Institute Tasmania,University of Tasmania,Hobart,Australia.
(12)Australian Government Department of Health and Ageing, Canberra, 
ACT,Australia.
(13)Centre for Rural and Remote Mental Health,University of Newcastle,Newcastle, 
NSW,Australia.
(14)Orygen Youth Health Research Centre, Melbourne, VIC,Australia.

BACKGROUND: There are insufficient data from nationwide surveys on the 
prevalence of specific psychotic disorders and associated co-morbidities.
METHOD: The 2010 Australian national psychosis survey used a two-phase design to 
draw a representative sample of adults aged 18-64 years with psychotic disorders 
in contact with public treatment services from an estimated resident population 
of 1 464 923 adults. This paper is based on data from 1642 participants with an 
International Classification of Diseases (ICD)-10 psychotic disorder. Its aim is 
to present estimates of treated prevalence and lifetime morbid risk of 
psychosis, and to describe the cognitive, physical health and substance use 
profiles of participants.
RESULTS: The 1-month treated prevalence of psychotic disorders was 3.10 cases 
per 1000 population aged 18-64 years, not accounting for people solely accessing 
primary care services; lifetime morbid risk was 3.45 per 1000. Mean premorbid 
intelligence quotient was approximately 0.5 s.d.s below the population mean; 
current cognitive ability (measured with a digit symbol coding task) was 1.6 
s.d.s below the population mean. For both cognitive tests, higher scores were 
significantly associated with better independent functioning. The prevalence of 
the metabolic syndrome was high, affecting 60.8% of participants, and pervasive 
across diagnostic groups. Of the participants, two-thirds (65.9%) were current 
smokers, 47.4% were obese and 32.4% were sedentary. Of the participants, half 
(49.8%) had a lifetime history of alcohol abuse/dependence and 50.8% lifetime 
cannabis abuse/dependence.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings highlight the need for comprehensive, integrative 
models of recovery to maximize the potential for good health and quality of life 
for people with psychotic illness.

DOI: 10.1017/S0033291713002973
PMCID: PMC4045165
PMID: 24365456 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1523. Nationwide Response Issues After an Improvised Nuclear Device Attack: Medical 
and Public Health Considerations for Neighboring Jurisdictions: Workshop 
Summary.

Forum on Medical and Public Health Preparedness for Catastrophic Events; Board 
on Health Sciences Policy; Institute of Medicine; Davis M, Reeve M, Altevogt B, 
editors.

Washington (DC): National Academies Press (US); 2013 Dec 26.
The National Academies Collection: Reports funded by National Institutes of 
Health.

Our nation faces the distinct possibility of a catastrophic terrorist attack 
using an improvised nuclear device (IND), according to international and U.S. 
intelligence. Detonation of an IND in a major U.S. city would result in tens of 
thousands to hundreds of thousands of victims and would overwhelm public health, 
emergency response, and health care systems, not to mention creating 
unprecedented social and economic challenges. While preparing for an IND may 
seem futile at first glance, thousands of lives can be saved by informed 
planning and decision making prior to and following an attack. In 2009, the 
Institute of Medicine published the proceedings of a workshop assessing the 
health and medical preparedness for responding to an IND detonation. Since that 
time, multiple federal and other publications have added layers of detail to 
this conceptual framework, resulting in a significant body of literature and 
guidance. However, there has been only limited planning effort at the local 
level as much of the federal guidance has not been translated into action for 
states, cities and counties. According to an informal survey of community 
preparedness by the National Association of City and County Health Officials 
(NACCHO), planning for a radiation incident ranked lowest in priority among 
other hazards by 2,800 local health departments. The focus of Nationwide 
Response Issues After an Improvised Nuclear Device Attack: Medical and Public 
Health Considerations for Neighboring Jurisdictions: Workshop Summary is on key 
response requirements faced by public health and health care systems in response 
to an IND detonation, especially those planning needs of outlying state and 
local jurisdictions from the detonation site. The specific meeting objectives 
were as follows: - Understand the differences between types of radiation 
incidents and implications of an IND attack on outlying communities. -Highlight 
current planning efforts at the federal, state, and local level as well as 
challenges to the implementation of operational plans. -Examine gaps in planning 
efforts and possible challenges and solutions. -Identify considerations for 
public health reception centers: how public health and health care interface 
with functions and staffing and how radiological assessments and triage be 
handled. -Discuss the possibilities and benefits of integration of disaster 
transport systems. -Explore roles of regional health care coalitions in 
coordination of health care response.

Copyright 2014 by the National Academy of Sciences. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.17226/18347
PMID: 24199263


1524. Neuroimage. 2014 Apr 15;90:117-27. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2013.12.030. Epub 
2013 Dec 22.

Left fronto-parietal white matter correlates with individual differences in 
children's ability to solve additions and multiplications: a tractography study.

Van Beek L(1), Ghesquière P(2), Lagae L(3), De Smedt B(4).

Author information:
(1)Parenting and Special Education, Faculty of Psychology and Educational 
Sciences, University of Leuven, Belgium. Electronic address: 
Leen.VanBeek@ppw.kuleuven.be.
(2)Parenting and Special Education, Faculty of Psychology and Educational 
Sciences, University of Leuven, Belgium. Electronic address: 
Pol.Ghesquiere@ppw.kuleuven.be.
(3)Department of Development and Regeneration, Biomedical Sciences Group, 
University of Leuven, Belgium. Electronic address: Lieven.Lagae@uzleuven.be.
(4)Parenting and Special Education, Faculty of Psychology and Educational 
Sciences, University of Leuven, Belgium. Electronic address: 
Bert.DeSmedt@ppw.kuleuven.be.

Functional neuroimaging data have pointed to the activation of a fronto-parietal 
network during calculation tasks, the activity of which is modulated by 
arithmetic operation and arithmetical competence. As the cortical brain regions 
of this network are distant, it is crucial to investigate the white matter 
connections between them and to examine how these connections are related to 
different arithmetic operations and individual differences in arithmetical 
competence. By using diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) tractography in eighteen 
12-year-olds, we tested whether white matter pathways connecting these distant 
regions were related to children's arithmetical competence and how this 
association was modulated by operation. For each child, we delineated the three 
subcomponents of the arcuate fasciculus, a bundle of pathways linking frontal 
and temporo-parietal regions that are commonly active during calculation tasks. 
Fractional anisotropy in the left anterior portion of the arcuate fasciculus was 
positively correlated with addition and multiplication, but not with subtraction 
and division, suggesting a specific role of this left anterior segment in the 
solution of those problems that are expected to be solved with fact retrieval. 
The observed correlation was not explained by age, intelligence and working 
memory. Follow-up control analyses using different types of reading measures 
revealed that the observed correlation only disappeared when measures that draw 
heavily on phonological processing, such as non-word reading, were controlled 
for, suggesting that the association between the left arcuate 
fasciculus-anterior and addition/multiplication reflects the involvement of 
phonological processing. These results are the first to demonstrate that 
individual differences in fronto-parietal white matter are associated with 
arithmetical competence in typically developing children of a very narrow age 
range and indicate that this association is modulated by arithmetic operation.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2013.12.030
PMID: 24368261 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1525. Environ Health Prev Med. 2014 May;19(3):194-9. doi: 10.1007/s12199-013-0374-2. 
Epub 2013 Dec 25.

A consecutive study on arsenic exposure and intelligence quotient (IQ) of 
children in Bangladesh.

Nahar MN(1), Inaoka T, Fujimura M.

Author information:
(1)The United Graduate School of Agricultural Sciences, Kagoshima University 
Allied to the Faculty of Agriculture, Saga University, 1 Honjo-machi, Saga City, 
Saga, 840-8502, Japan, shapla.ru@gmail.com.

OBJECTIVE: In a recent cross-sectional investigation, we reported the 
intellectual function of adolescents (aged 14 and 15 years) in Bangladesh who 
had been exposed to arsenic (As). Here, we report a consecutive investigation on 
the intelligence quotient (IQ) of 408 children who are living in the Sonargoan 
Thana of Bangladesh (two age groups: 9 and 10 years; 4 and 5 years) were exposed 
to high levels of As in the groundwater.
METHODS: Urine and water samples were collected to assess As exposure. The IQ of 
the children was estimated using the Raven's Standard Progressive Matrices and 
the Kaufman Brief Intelligence Test. Information on parents' socioeconomic 
status (SES) was collected as confounding factors.
RESULTS: The results indicate that As exposure was responsible for a lower IQ. 
The concentration of urinary As ([As]u) was associated with reduced intellectual 
function in a dose-response manner. A stronger association was found between 
reduced intellectual function (IQ) and [As]u than the level of As in the 
drinking water [As]w. There was no association between verbal IQ scores and 
[As]u of children in early childhood (aged 4 and 5 years).
CONCLUSION: Based on these results, we conclude that current levels of As in the 
urine ([As]u), which we considered to reflect recent exposure to As from all 
possible sources, including groundwater, food, among others, were negatively 
associated to the IQ of the children tested, and that this adverse effect of As 
may also gradually accumulate over time among the poor.

DOI: 10.1007/s12199-013-0374-2
PMCID: PMC4019759
PMID: 24368742 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1526. Artif Intell Med. 2013 Nov;59(3):169-74. doi: 10.1016/j.artmed.2013.09.001.

Comparing the accuracy of syndrome surveillance systems in detecting 
influenza-like illness: GUARDIAN vs. RODS vs. electronic medical record reports.

Silva JC, Shah SC, Rumoro DP, Bayram JD, Hallock MM, Gibbs GS, Waddell MJ.

BACKGROUND: A highly sensitive real-time syndrome surveillance system is 
critical to detect, monitor, and control infectious disease outbreaks, such as 
influenza. Direct comparisons of diagnostic accuracy of various surveillance 
systems are scarce.
OBJECTIVE: To statistically compare sensitivity and specificity of multiple 
proprietary and open source syndrome surveillance systems to detect 
influenza-like illness (ILI).
METHODS: A retrospective, cross-sectional study was conducted utilizing data 
from 1122 patients seen during November 1–7, 2009 in the emergency department of 
a single urban academic medical center. The study compared the Geographic 
Utilization of Artificial Intelligence in Real-time for Disease Identification 
and Alert Notification (GUARDIAN) system to the Complaint Coder (CoCo) of the 
Real-time Outbreak Detection System (RODS), the Symptom Coder (SyCo) of RODS, 
and to a standardized report generated via a proprietary electronic medical 
record (EMR) system. Sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of each classifier's 
ability to identify ILI cases were calculated and compared to a manual review by 
a board-certified emergency physician. Chi-square and McNemar's tests were used 
to evaluate the statistical difference between the various surveillance 
systems.ResultsThe performance of GUARDIAN in detecting ILI in terms of 
sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy, as compared to a physician chart review, 
was 95.5%, 97.6%, and 97.1%, respectively. The EMR-generated reports were the 
next best system at identifying disease activity with a sensitivity, 
specificity, and accuracy of 36.7%, 99.3%, and 83.2%, respectively. RODS (CoCo 
and SyCo) had similar sensitivity (35.3%) but slightly different specificity 
(CoCo = 98.9%; SyCo = 99.3%). The GUARDIAN surveillance system with its multiple 
data sources performed significantly better compared to CoCo (χ2 = 130.6, p < 
0.05), SyCo (χ2 = 125.2, p < 0.05), and EMR-based reports (χ2 = 121.3, p < 
0.05). In addition, similar significant improvements in the accuracy (>12%) and 
sensitivity (>47%) were observed for GUARDIAN with only chief complaint data as 
compared to RODS (CoCo and SyCo) and EMR-based reports.
CONCLUSION: In our study population, the GUARDIAN surveillance system, with its 
ability to utilize multiple data sources from patient encounters and real-time 
automaticity, demonstrated a more robust performance when compared to standard 
EMR-based reports and the RODS systems in detecting ILI. More large-scale 
studies are needed to validate the study findings, and to compare the 
performance of GUARDIAN in detecting other infectious diseases.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.artmed.2013.09.001
PMID: 24369035 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1527. Nan Fang Yi Ke Da Xue Xue Bao. 2013 Dec;33(12):1861-3.

[Turner syndrome and monosomy 1p36 deletion syndrome misdiagnosed as thyropenia: 
report of one case].

[Article in Chinese]

Meng X(1), Li Z, Liu T, Wen Z.

Author information:
(1)Haikou Hospital Affiliated to Xiangya Medical School, Zhongnan University, 
Haikou 570208, China. E-mail: WZM7890@163.com.

A 21-year-old woman with a short stature presented with primary amenorrhoea and 
a 45X karyotype, and comparative genomic hybridization revealed 1p36 deletion 
and abnormal genes in multiple chromosomes to support the diagnosis of Turner 
syndrome and monosomy 1p36 deletion syndrome. The main clinical features of this 
condition include microsomia, poor sexual development, menoschesis, 
gigantorectum, absence of internal genitalia, sometimes with thyropenia and low 
intelligence. This disease can be easily diagnosed for its heterogeneous 
clinical manifestations.

PMID: 24369264 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1528. Psychiatry Res. 2014 Feb 28;215(2):424-8. doi: 10.1016/j.psychres.2013.12.001. 
Epub 2013 Dec 11.

Dysfunctional inhibitory control and impulsivity in Internet addiction.

Choi JS(1), Park SM(2), Roh MS(3), Lee JY(1), Park CB(4), Hwang JY(1), Gwak 
AR(4), Jung HY(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, SMG-SNU Boramae Medical Center, Seoul, Republic of 
Korea; Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Science, Seoul National 
University College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, SMG-SNU Boramae Medical Center, Seoul, Republic of 
Korea; Department of Advanced Education for Clinician-Scientists, Seoul National 
University College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Medicine, Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul, 
Republic of Korea.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, SMG-SNU Boramae Medical Center, Seoul, Republic of 
Korea.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, SMG-SNU Boramae Medical Center, Seoul, Republic of 
Korea; Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Science, Seoul National 
University College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea; Department of Advanced 
Education for Clinician-Scientists, Seoul National University College of 
Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea; Institute of Human Behavioral Medicine, 
Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea. 
Electronic address: hyjung@snu.ac.kr.

The purpose of this study was to explore a psychological profile of Internet 
addiction (IA) considering impulsivity as a key personality trait and as a key 
component of neuropsychological functioning. Twenty three subjects with IA 
(Young's Internet Addiction Test scores=70 or more) and 24 sex-, age-, and 
intelligence-matched healthy controls were enrolled. Participants filled out a 
questionnaire about trait impulsivity, the Trait Characteristic Inventory, 
depression, and anxiety. Next, we administered traditional neuropsychological 
tests including the Stroop et al. and computerized neuropsychological tests 
using the Cambridge Neuropsychological Test Automated Battery. The IA group 
exhibited more trait impulsivity than the healthy control group. They also 
scored higher for novelty seeking and harm avoidance. The IA group performed 
more poorly than the healthy control group in a computerized stop signal test, a 
test for inhibitory function and impulsivity; no group differences appeared for 
other neuropsychological tests. The IA group also scored higher for depression 
and anxiety, and lower for self-directedness and cooperativeness. In conclusion, 
individuals with IA exhibited impulsivity as a core personality trait and in 
their neuropsychological functioning.

© 2013 Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2013.12.001
PMID: 24370334 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1529. Int J Pediatr Otorhinolaryngol. 2014 Feb;78(2):198-208. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijporl.2013.10.048. Epub 2013 Nov 20.

Auditory processing disorders: relationship to cognitive processes and 
underlying auditory neural integrity.

Allen P(1), Allan C(2).

Author information:
(1)National Centre for Audiology, Western University, Canada. Electronic 
address: pallen@uwo.ca.
(2)National Centre for Audiology, Western University, Canada. Electronic 
address: callan@nca.uwo.ca.

BACKGROUND: Auditory processing disorder (APD) in children has been reported and 
discussed in the clinical and research literature for many years yet there 
remains poor agreement on diagnostic criteria, the relationship between APD and 
cognitive skills, and the importance of assessing underlying neural integrity.
PURPOSE: The present study used a repeated measures design to examine the 
relationship between a clinical APD diagnosis achieved with behavioral tests 
used in many clinics, cognitive abilities measured with standardized tests of 
intelligence, academic achievement, language, phonology, memory and attention 
and measures of auditory neural integrity as measured with acoustic reflex 
thresholds and auditory brainstem responses.
METHOD: Participants were 63 children, 7-17 years of age, who reported listening 
difficulties in spite of normal hearing thresholds. Parents/guardians completed 
surveys about the child's auditory and attention behavior while children 
completed an audiologic examination that included 5 behavioral tests of auditory 
processing ability. Standardized tests that examined intelligence, academic 
achievement, language, phonology, memory and attention, and objective tests 
auditory function included crossed and uncrossed acoustic reflex thresholds and 
auditory brainstem responses (ABR) were also administered to each child.
RESULTS: Forty of the children received an APD diagnosis based on the 5 
behavioral tests and 23 did not. The groups of children performed similarly on 
intelligence measures but the children with an APD diagnosis tended to perform 
more poorly on other cognitive measures. Auditory brainstem responses and 
acoustic reflex thresholds were often abnormal in both groups of children.
SUMMARY: Results of this study suggest that a purely behavioral test battery may 
be insufficient to accurately identify all children with auditory processing 
disorders. Physiologic test measures, including acoustic reflex and auditory 
brainstem response tests, are important indicators of auditory function and may 
be the only indication of a problem. The results also suggest that performance 
on behavioral APD tests may be strongly influenced by the child's language 
levels.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijporl.2013.10.048
PMID: 24370466 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1530. Schizophr Bull. 2014 Mar;40 Suppl 2(Suppl 2):S138-46. doi: 
10.1093/schbul/sbt198. Epub 2013 Dec 26.

Differential neurodevelopmental trajectories in patients with early-onset 
bipolar and schizophrenia disorders.

Arango C(1), Fraguas D, Parellada M.

Author information:
(1)*To whom correspondence should be addressed; Hospital General Universitario 
Gregorio Marañón, Ibiza 43, 28009 Madrid, Spain; tel: 34-914265006; fax: 
34-91426004, e-mail: carango@mprc.umaryland.edu.

Schizophrenia and bipolar disorders share not only clinical features but also 
some risk factors such as genetic markers and childhood adversity, while other 
risk factors such as urbanicity and obstetric complications seem to be specific 
to schizophrenia. An intriguing question is whether the well-established 
abnormal neurodevelopment present in many children and adolescents who 
eventually develop schizophrenia is also present in bipolar patients. The 
literature on adult bipolar patients is controversial. We report data on a 
subgroup of patients with pediatric-onset psychotic bipolar disorder who seem to 
share some developmental trajectories with patients with early-onset 
schizophrenia. These early-onset psychotic bipolar patients have low 
intelligence quotient, more neurological signs, reduced frontal gray matter at 
the time of their first psychotic episode, and greater brain changes than 
healthy controls in a pattern similar to early-onset schizophrenia cases. 
However, patients with early-onset schizophrenia seem to have more social 
impairment, developmental abnormalities (eg, language problems), and lower 
academic achievement in childhood than early-onset bipolar patients. We suggest 
that some of these abnormal developmental trajectories are more related to the 
phenotypic features (eg, early-onset psychotic symptoms) of these 2 syndromes 
than to categorically defined Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental 
Disorders disorders.

DOI: 10.1093/schbul/sbt198
PMCID: PMC3934406
PMID: 24371326 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1531. J Psychiatr Res. 2014 Mar;50:92-9. doi: 10.1016/j.jpsychires.2013.12.003. Epub 
2013 Dec 18.

Cognitive impairment among children at-risk for schizophrenia.

Dickson H(1), Cullen AE(2), Reichenberg A(3), Hodgins S(4), Campbell DD(5), 
Morris RG(6), Laurens KR(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Forensic and Neurodevelopmental Sciences, Institute of 
Psychiatry, King's College London, United Kingdom. Electronic address: 
hannah.dickson@kcl.ac.uk.
(2)Department of Forensic and Neurodevelopmental Sciences, Institute of 
Psychiatry, King's College London, United Kingdom.
(3)Department of Psychosis Studies, Institute of Psychiatry, King's College 
London, United Kingdom; Department of Psychiatry, Ichan School of Medicine at 
Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA; Department of Preventive Medicine, Ichan School 
of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA; Freidman Brain Institute, Ichan 
School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(4)Département de Psychiatrie, Université de Montréal, Montréal, Canada.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong.
(6)Department of Psychology, Institute of Psychiatry, Kings College London, 
United Kingdom.
(7)Department of Forensic and Neurodevelopmental Sciences, Institute of 
Psychiatry, King's College London, United Kingdom; Research Unit for 
Schizophrenia Epidemiology, School of Psychiatry, University of New South Wales, 
Sydney, Australia; Schizophrenia Research Institute, Sydney, Australia. 
Electronic address: kristin.laurens@kcl.ac.uk.

Adults with schizophrenia present cognitive impairments, as do individuals at 
ultra-high risk for the disorder, youth with relatives with schizophrenia 
spectrum disorders, and children with antecedents of schizophrenia. The present 
study aimed to determine if impairments in childhood differed depending on the 
definition of risk and/or on the degree of relatedness to an affected 
individual, and if impairments were explained by IQ. Four groups of children 
aged 9-12 years were studied: (1) 13 children with ≥1 first-degree or ≥2 
second-degree affected relatives (high familial loading: FHx(H)); (2) 14 with ≥1 
affected second-degree relative (lower familial loading: FHx(L)); (3) 32 with 
well-replicated antecedents of schizophrenia (ASz); and (4) 45 
typically-developing (TD) children with neither a positive family history nor 
antecedents. Compared to TD children, both FHx(H) and ASz children exhibited 
significantly poorer verbal comprehension, scholastic achievement, and verbal 
working memory, while FHx(H) children additionally displayed significantly lower 
full-scale IQ, and verbal memory and executive function impairments. After 
adjusting statistical analyses for IQ, group differences were attenuated. 
Relative to TD children, FHx(L) children showed no significant differences in 
performance. The results imply that impairments in verbal comprehension, 
scholastic achievement, and verbal working memory may index vulnerability for 
schizophrenia among children with affected relatives with the disorder and among 
those with multiple antecedents of the disorder who have no affected relatives. 
More accurate identification of children at-risk for schizophrenia and the 
specific deficits that they present provides opportunities for interventions 
such as cognitive remediation that may impact the development of the illness.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpsychires.2013.12.003
PMID: 24373930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1532. Cognition. 2014 Mar;130(3):278-88. doi: 10.1016/j.cognition.2013.11.015. Epub 
2013 Dec 25.

Independent effects of bilingualism and socioeconomic status on language ability 
and executive functioning.

Calvo A(1), Bialystok E(2).

Author information:
(1)York University, Canada.
(2)York University, Canada. Electronic address: ellenb@yorku.ca.

One hundred and seventy-five children who were 6-years old were assigned to one 
of four groups that differed in socioeconomic status (SES; working class or 
middle class) and language background (monolingual or bilingual). The children 
completed tests of nonverbal intelligence, language tests assessing receptive 
vocabulary and attention based on picture naming, and two tests of executive 
functioning. All children performed equivalently on the basic intelligence 
tests, but performance on the language and executive functioning tasks was 
influenced by both SES and bilingualism. Middle-class children outperformed 
working-class children on all measures, and bilingual children obtained lower 
scores than monolingual children on language tests but higher scores than 
monolingual children on the executive functioning tasks. There were no 
interactions with either group factors or task factors. Thus, each of SES and 
bilingualism contribute significantly and independently to children's 
development irrespective of the child's level on the other factor.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cognition.2013.11.015
PMCID: PMC3921957
PMID: 24374020 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1533. Eur Eat Disord Rev. 2014 Mar;22(2):152-6. doi: 10.1002/erv.2274. Epub 2013 Dec 
22.

The early cognitive development of children at high risk of developing an eating 
disorder.

Kothari R(1), Rosinska M, Treasure J, Micali N.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Child Health, University College London, UK.

Diagnosis of an eating disorder (ED) has been associated with differences in 
cognition. Recent evidence suggests that differences may be present prior to 
onset. Children at familial high risk for ED show cognitive differences at ages 
8-10 years. Research is required to investigate differences in cognitive 
development at various time points. This is the first study to investigate 
cognitive development in children at high risk at 18 months (Griffiths Mental 
Development Scale; n=982) and 4 years old (Wechsler Preschool and Primary Scale 
of Intelligence-Revised; n=582), in comparison with children not at risk, using 
a general population sample, the Avon Longitudinal Study of Parents and 
Children. Children of women with lifetime anorexia nervosa revealed difficulties 
in social understanding, visual-motor function, planning and abstract reasoning. 
Cognitive differences observed here have also been observed in clinical groups. 
This suggests difficulties may be present prior to onset, potentially affecting 
risk status for development of ED. Findings contribute to an understanding of 
aetiology, and design of prevention/intervention strategies.

Copyright © 2013 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd and Eating Disorders Association.

DOI: 10.1002/erv.2274
PMCID: PMC4208682
PMID: 24375832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1534. PLoS One. 2013 Dec 23;8(12):e83201. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0083201. 
eCollection 2013.

Aberrant interference of auditory negative words on attention in patients with 
schizophrenia.

Iwashiro N(1), Yahata N(2), Kawamuro Y(3), Kasai K(4), Yamasue H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Graduate School of Medicine, The University of 
Tokyo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Graduate School of Medicine, The University of 
Tokyo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, Japan ; Global Center of Excellence (COE) Program, The 
University of Tokyo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Takada-Nishishiro Hospital, Jyoetsu-shi, Niigata, Japan.
(4)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Graduate School of Medicine, The University of 
Tokyo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, Japan ; JST, National Bioscience Database Center 
(NBDC), Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, Japan.

Previous research suggests that deficits in attention-emotion interaction are 
implicated in schizophrenia symptoms. Although disruption in auditory processing 
is crucial in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia, deficits in interaction 
between emotional processing of auditorily presented language stimuli and 
auditory attention have not yet been clarified. To address this issue, the 
current study used a dichotic listening task to examine 22 patients with 
schizophrenia and 24 age-, sex-, parental socioeconomic background-, 
handedness-, dexterous ear-, and intelligence quotient-matched healthy controls. 
The participants completed a word recognition task on the attended side in which 
a word with emotionally valenced content (negative/positive/neutral) was 
presented to one ear and a different neutral word was presented to the other 
ear. Participants selectively attended to either ear. In the control subjects, 
presentation of negative but not positive word stimuli provoked a significantly 
prolonged reaction time compared with presentation of neutral word stimuli. This 
interference effect for negative words existed whether or not subjects directed 
attention to the negative words. This interference effect was significantly 
smaller in the patients with schizophrenia than in the healthy controls. 
Furthermore, the smaller interference effect was significantly correlated with 
severe positive symptoms and delusional behavior in the patients with 
schizophrenia. The present findings suggest that aberrant interaction between 
semantic processing of negative emotional content and auditory attention plays a 
role in production of positive symptoms in schizophrenia. (224 words).

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0083201
PMCID: PMC3871545
PMID: 24376662 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


1535. PLoS One. 2013 Dec 20;8(12):e83411. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0083411. 
eCollection 2013.

Decision making under uncertainty: a quasimetric approach.

N'Guyen S(1), Moulin-Frier C(1), Droulez J(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire de Physiologie de la Perception et de l'Action, UMR 7152 Collège 
de France - CNRS, Paris, France.

We propose a new approach for solving a class of discrete decision making 
problems under uncertainty with positive cost. This issue concerns multiple and 
diverse fields such as engineering, economics, artificial intelligence, 
cognitive science and many others. Basically, an agent has to choose a single or 
series of actions from a set of options, without knowing for sure their 
consequences. Schematically, two main approaches have been followed: either the 
agent learns which option is the correct one to choose in a given situation by 
trial and error, or the agent already has some knowledge on the possible 
consequences of his decisions; this knowledge being generally expressed as a 
conditional probability distribution. In the latter case, several optimal or 
suboptimal methods have been proposed to exploit this uncertain knowledge in 
various contexts. In this work, we propose following a different approach, based 
on the geometric intuition of distance. More precisely, we define a goal 
independent quasimetric structure on the state space, taking into account both 
cost function and transition probability. We then compare precision and 
computation time with classical approaches.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0083411
PMCID: PMC3869775
PMID: 24376697 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


1536. J Psychoactive Drugs. 2013 Sep-Oct;45(4):360-5. doi: 
10.1080/02791072.2013.825033.

Cognitive enhancement in Canadian medical students.

Kudlow PA(1), Naylor KT(2), Xie B(3), McIntyre RS(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada. 
paul.kudlow@gmail.com
(2)Columbia University, New York, NY, USA.
(3)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology at the University of Western Ontario, 
London, Canada.
(4)University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Cognitive enhancing agents are substances that may augment functions 
such as memory, attention, concentration, wakefulness, and intelligence.
METHODS: An anonymous, online survey containing a series of questions on the 
actual and hypothetical use of cognitive enhancers was sent via email to 647 
medical students across all four years in one Canadian MD program.
RESULTS: The response rate was 50% (326/647). Overall, 49 (15%, 95% CI: 11% to 
19%) students admitted to non-medical and/or off-label use of one or more 
pharmaceutical stimulants, of whom 14 (4%, 95% CI: 2% to 6%) had used stimulants 
within the last year. Senior medical students reported recent use more often 
than junior students (8% vs. 2%, P = 0.04). Class seniority and male gender were 
both associated with positive attitudes towards use of these agents; favorable 
attitudes were associated with recent use of pharmaceutical stimulant and 
high-caffeine products.
CONCLUSION: A substantial proportion of Canadian medical students have engaged 
at some point in non-medical and/or off-label use of stimulants for purposes of 
cognitive enhancement. Male students and those in upper years of the MD program 
were more likely to have used pharmaceutical stimulants in the last year, and 
have favorable attitudes concerning use of cognitive-enhancing agents.

DOI: 10.1080/02791072.2013.825033
PMID: 24377176 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1537. Psychiatry Res. 2014 Feb 28;215(2):268-73. doi: 10.1016/j.psychres.2013.12.009. 
Epub 2013 Dec 14.

A positive correlation between serum levels of mature brain-derived neurotrophic 
factor and negative symptoms in schizophrenia.

Niitsu T(1), Ishima T(2), Yoshida T(3), Hashimoto T(3), Matsuzawa D(4), 
Shirayama Y(5), Nakazato M(6), Shimizu E(4), Hashimoto K(2), Iyo M(7).

Author information:
(1)Research Center for Child Mental Development, Chiba University Graduate 
School of Medicine, Chiba, Japan. Electronic address: niitsu@chiba-u.jp.
(2)Division of Clinical Neuroscience, Chiba University Center for Forensic 
Mental Health, Chiba, Japan.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, Chiba University Graduate School of Medicine, 
Chiba, Japan.
(4)Research Center for Child Mental Development, Chiba University Graduate 
School of Medicine, Chiba, Japan; Department of Cognitive Behavioral Physiology, 
Chiba University Graduate School of Medicine, Chiba, Japan.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, Teikyo University Chiba Medical Center, Ichihara, 
Japan.
(6)Research Center for Child Mental Development, Chiba University Graduate 
School of Medicine, Chiba, Japan.
(7)Division of Clinical Neuroscience, Chiba University Center for Forensic 
Mental Health, Chiba, Japan; Department of Psychiatry, Chiba University Graduate 
School of Medicine, Chiba, Japan.

A meta-analysis study reported serum brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) 
levels as a potential biomarker for schizophrenia. However, at the time, 
commercially available human ELISA kits were unable to distinguish between 
pro-BDNF (precursor BDNF) and mature BDNF, because of limited antibody 
specificity. Here, we used new ELISA kits, to examine serum levels of mature 
BDNF and matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9), which converts pro-BDNF to mature 
BDNF in schizophrenia. Sixty-three patients with chronic schizophrenia and 52 
age- and sex-matched healthy controls were enrolled. Patients were evaluated 
using the Brief Psychiatry Rating Scale, the Scale for the Assessment of 
Negative Symptoms (SANS) and neuropsychological tests. Neither serum mature BDNF 
nor MMP-9 levels differed between patients and controls. In male subgroups, 
serum MMP-9 levels of smoking patients were higher than those of non-smoking 
patients, but this was not observed in male controls or the female subgroup. In 
patients, serum mature BDNF levels were associated with SANS total scores and 
the Information subtest scores of the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale Revised 
(WAIS-R), while serum MMP-9 levels were associated with smoking and category 
fluency scores. These findings suggest that neither mature BDNF nor MMP-9 is a 
suitable biomarker for schizophrenia, although further studies using large 
samples are needed.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2013.12.009
PMID: 24377440 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1538. Neurobiol Aging. 2014 Jun;35(6):1375-85. doi: 
10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2013.11.028. Epub 2013 Dec 4.

Right hemisphere role in cognitive reserve.

Robertson IH(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Neuroscience and School of Psychology, Trinity College Dublin, 
Dublin, Ireland. Electronic address: iroberts@tcd.ie.

High levels of education, occupational complexity, and/or premorbid intelligence 
are associated with lower levels of cognitive impairment than would be expected 
from a given brain pathology. This has been observed across a range of 
conditions including Alzheimer's disease (Roe et al., 2010), stroke 
(Ojala-Oksala et al., 2012), traumatic brain injury (Kesler et al., 2003), and 
penetrating brain injury (Grafman, 1986). This cluster of factors, which 
seemingly protect the brain from expressing symptoms of damage, has been termed 
"cognitive reserve" (Stern, 2012). The current review considers one possible 
neural network, which may contribute to cognitive reserve. Based on the evidence 
that the neurotransmitter, noradrenaline mediates cognitive reserve's protective 
effects (Robertson, 2013) this review identifies the neurocognitive correlates 
of noradrenergic (NA) activity. These involve a set of inter-related cognitive 
processes (arousal, sustained attention, response to novelty, and awareness) 
with a strongly right hemisphere, fronto-parietal localization, along with 
working memory, which is also strongly modulated by NA. It is proposed that this 
set of processes is one plausible candidate for partially mediating the 
protective effects of cognitive reserve. In addition to its biological effects 
on brain structure and function, NA function may also facilitate networks for 
arousal, novelty, attention, awareness, and working memory, which collectively 
provide for a set of additional, cognitive, mechanisms that help the brain adapt 
to age-related changes and disease. It is hypothesized that to the extent that 
the lateral surface of the right prefrontal lobe and/or the right inferior 
parietal lobe maintain structural (white and gray matter) and functional 
integrity and connectivity, cognitive reserve should benefit and behavioral 
expression of pathologic damage should thus be mitigated.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2013.11.028
PMID: 24378088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1539. J Clin Res Pediatr Endocrinol. 2013;5(4):229-35. doi: 10.4274/Jcrpe.1044.

Psychiatric approaches for disorders of sex development: experience of a 
multidisciplinary team.

Özbaran B(1), Özen S, Gökşen D, Korkmaz Ö, Onay H, Özkınay F, Çoğulu Ö, Erermiş 
S, Köse S, Avanoğlu A, Ulman İ, Darcan Ş.

Author information:
(1)Ege University Faculty of Medicine, Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, İzmir, 
Turkey. E-mail: drbbeker@yahoo.com.

OBJECTIVE: Disorders of sex development (DSD) are a group of congenital medical 
conditions that affect life as a whole. In this study, we aimed to reflect the 
experience of a multidisciplinary team in the clinical/psychiatric follow-up of 
a group of children and adolescents with DSD.
METHODS: The study group consisted of 51 patients diagnosed with DSD. The 
Kiddie-Schedule for Affective Disorders and Schizophrenia, Wechsler Intelligence 
Scale for Children-Revised, Draw a Person Test and Children's Apperception Test, 
and the Clinical Global Impression Scale (CGIS) were used for psychiatric 
evaluations.
RESULTS: The mean age of the patients was 7.8 years (median: 7.8; min: 1.0; max: 
18.0). Genetic evaluation showed 46,XX configuration in 15 patients (29.4%) and 
46,XY in 35 (68.6%). One patient (2.0%) was diagnosed to have a sex chromosome 
disorder. Forty patients (78.4%) had no problems with their given gender 
identity and gender role. Thirty-four (66.7%) patients had normal intellectual 
capacity. Twenty-eight (54.9%) patients did not have any psychiatric problem. 
Depression, anxiety disorders, attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder, and 
adjustment disorders were the common diagnoses. The mean score of symptom 
severity on CGIS-severity-baseline was 6.15±0.68 and after one year, it was 
1.46±0.51 (Z=-3.236 p=0.001). The mean score of CGI-Improvement was 1.23±0.44.
CONCLUSION: It is important to identify and treat the psychiatric disorders 
encountered in patients with DSD. A psychiatrist needs to be included in the 
professional team following these patients. Examination and observation results 
need to be shared by holding periodic team meetings to establish a wholesome 
point of view for every unique child.

DOI: 10.4274/Jcrpe.1044
PMCID: PMC3890221
PMID: 24379031 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1540. J Korean Neurosurg Soc. 2013 Nov;54(5):390-8. doi: 10.3340/jkns.2013.54.5.390. 
Epub 2013 Nov 30.

Neurocognitive function differentiation from the effect of psychopathologic 
symptoms in the disability evaluation of patients with mild traumatic brain 
injury.

Kim JS(1), Kim OL(2), Koo BH(1), Kim MS(2), Kim SS(1), Cheon EJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, College of Medicine, Yeungnam University, Daegu, 
Korea.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, College of Medicine, Yeungnam University, Daegu, 
Korea.

OBJECTIVE: We determined whether the relationship between the neuropsychological 
performance of patients with mild traumatic brain injury (TBI) and their 
psychopathological characteristics measured by disability evaluation are 
interrelated. In addition, we assessed which psychopathological variable was 
most influential on neuropsychological performance via statistical clustering of 
the same characteristics of mild TBI.
METHODS: A total of 219 disability evaluation participants with mild brain 
injury were selected. All participants were classified into three groups, based 
on their psychopathological characteristics, via a two-step cluster analysis 
using validity and clinical scales from the Minnesota Multiphasic Personality 
Inventory (MMPI) and Symptom Checklist-90-revised (SCL-90-R). The Korean 
Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale (K-WAIS), Korean Memory Assessment Scale 
(K-MAS) and the Korean Boston Naming Test (K-BNT) were used to evaluate the 
neurocognitive functions of mild TBI patients.
RESULTS: Over a quarter (26.9%) experienced severe psychopathological symptoms 
and 43.4% experienced mild or moderate psychopathological symptoms, and all of 
the mild TBI patients showed a significant relationship between neurocognitive 
functions and subjective and/or objective psychopathic symptoms, but the degree 
of this relationship was moderate. Variances of neurocognitive function were 
explained by neurotic and psychotic symptoms, but the role of these factors were 
different to each other and participants did not show intelligence and other 
cognitive domain decrement except for global memory abilities compared to the 
non-psychopathology group.
CONCLUSION: Certain patients with mild TBI showed psychopathological symptoms, 
but these were not directly related to cognitive decrement. Psychopathology and 
cognitive decrement are discrete aspects in patients with mild TBI. Furthermore, 
the neurotic symptoms of mild TBI patients made positive complements to 
decrements or impairments of neurocognitive functions, but the psychotic 
symptoms had a negative effect on neurocognitive functions.

DOI: 10.3340/jkns.2013.54.5.390
PMCID: PMC3873351
PMID: 24379945


1541. J Infect Prev. 2014 Jan;15(1):14-21. doi: 10.1177/1757177413512387. Epub 2013 
Nov 18.

The outcome competency framework for practitioners in infection prevention and 
control: use of the outcome logic model for evaluation.

Burnett E(1), Curran E(2), Loveday HP(3), Kiernan MA(4), Tannahill M(5).

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing and Midwifery in collaboration with the Infection 
Prevention Society, Infection Prevention and Control, University of Dundee, 
Dundee, UK.
(2)Infection Control, Health Protection Scotland, Glasgow, UK.
(3)Director of the Richard Wells Research Centre, University of West London, 
London, UK.
(4)Infection Prevention Consultant, Southport and Ormskirk Hospital NHS Trust, 
Merseyside, UK.
(5)Consultant nurse infection control, Care Inspectorate, Paisley, UK.

Healthcare is delivered in a dynamic environment with frequent changes in 
populations, methods, equipment and settings. Infection prevention and control 
practitioners (IPCPs) must ensure that they are competent in addressing the 
challenges they face and are equipped to develop infection prevention and 
control (IPC) services in line with a changing world of healthcare provision. A 
multifaceted Framework was developed to assist IPCPs to enhance competence at an 
individual, team and organisational level to enable quality performance and 
improved quality of care. However, if these aspirations are to be met, it is 
vital that competency frameworks are fit for purpose or they risk being ignored. 
The aim of this unique study was to evaluate short and medium term outcomes as 
set out in the Outcome Logic Model to assist with the evaluation of the impact 
and success of the Framework. This study found that while the Framework is being 
used effectively in some areas, it is not being used as much or in the ways that 
were anticipated. The findings will enable future work on revision, 
communication and dissemination, and will provide intelligence to those 
initiating education and training in the utilisation of the competences.

DOI: 10.1177/1757177413512387
PMCID: PMC5074127
PMID: 28989348

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting Interest: The author 
declares that there is no conflict of interest.


1542. Zhongguo Zhong Yao Za Zhi. 2013 Sep;38(17):2863-7.

[Effect of tongluo xingnao effervescent tablet on learning and memory of AD rats 
and expression of insulin-degrading enzyme in hippocampus].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhang YJ(1), Dai Y(2), Hu Y(3), Ma YT(3), Xu SJ(3), Wang YY(4).

Author information:
(1)Culture Base of Sichuan Provincial Key Laboratory of Systematic Research and 
Development of Traditional Chinese Medicinal Resources of Sichuan Province, 
Chengdu 611137, China. zhangyinjie88@163.com
(2)Chengdu University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Chengdu 611137, China.
(3)Culture Base of Sichuan Provincial Key Laboratory of Systematic Research and 
Development of Traditional Chinese Medicinal Resources of Sichuan Province, 
Chengdu 611137, China.
(4)China Academy of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Beijing 100700, China.

OBJECTIVE: To study the effect of Tongluo Xingnao effervescent tablet on 
learning and memory of dementia rats induced by injection of Abeta25-35 in 
hippocampus and expression of insulin-degrading enzyme in hippocampus, in order 
to provide basis for preventing and treating senile dementia.
METHOD: The dementia rat model was established by injecting Abeta25-35 in 
hippocampus. The rats were divided into the model control group, the Aricept 
(1.4 mg x kg(-1)) group, and Tongluo Xingnao effervescent tablet high dose (7.56 
g x kg(-1)), middle dose (3.78 g x kg(-1)) and low dose (1.59 g x kg(-1)) 
groups. A sham operation group was established by injecting normal saline in 
hippocampus. The rats were orally given drugs for 90 days, once a day. Their 
learning and memory were tested by using Morris water maze. Immunohistochemistry 
and image analysis were utilized for a quantitative analysis on the expression 
of insulin-degrading enzyme in hippocampus.
RESULT: Tongluo Xingnao effervescent tablet could significantly shorten the 
escape latency of rats in the directional navigation test, prolong the retention 
time in the first quadrant dwell, decrease the retention time in the third 
quadrant dwell, increase the frequency of crossing the platform, show a more 
notable statistical significance than the model control group (P < 0.05). 
Additionally, it could also remarkably increase the average optical density of 
insulin-degrading enzyme in hippocampus, promote the expression of 
insulin-degrading enzyme in hippocampus, and show a more notable statistical 
significance than the model control group (P < 0.05).
CONCLUSION: Tongluo Xingnao effervescent tablet has the effects of improving 
learning and memory capacity of AD rats and promoting the expression of 
insulin-degrading enzyme in hippocampus. Its effect in promoting intelligence 
will be related to increased insulin-degrading enzyme in hippocampus.

PMID: 24380312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1543. Nurse Educ Today. 2014 Jun;34(6):918-23. doi: 10.1016/j.nedt.2013.12.005. Epub 
2013 Dec 19.

Factors related to academic success among nursing students: a descriptive 
correlational research study.

Beauvais AM(1), Stewart JG(2), DeNisco S(3), Beauvais JE(4).

Author information:
(1)Sacred Heart University, 5151 Park Avenue, Fairfield, CT 06825-1000, United 
States. Electronic address: beauvaisa@sacredheart.edu.
(2)Sacred Heart University, 5151 Park Avenue, Fairfield, CT 06825-1000, United 
States. Electronic address: StewartJ1270@sacredheart.edu.
(3)Sacred Heart University, 5151 Park Avenue, Fairfield, CT 06825-1000, United 
States. Electronic address: deniscos@sacredheart.edu.
(4)Yale University School of Medicine and Psychology Service VA Connecticut 
Healthcare System, 950 Campbell Avenue, West Haven, CT 06516, United States. 
Electronic address: john.beauvais@va.gov.

BACKGROUND: The current rise in employment is improving forecasts for the future 
supply of registered nurses; however sizeable shortages are still projected. 
With the intention of improving academic success in nursing students, related 
factors need to be better understood.
OBJECTIVES: The purpose of the correlational study was to describe the 
relationship between emotional intelligence, psychological empowerment, 
resilience, spiritual well-being, and academic success in undergraduate and 
graduate nursing students.
DESIGN/SETTING: A descriptive correlational design was utilized. The study was 
set in a private Catholic university.
PARTICIPANTS: There were 124 participants. There were 59% undergraduate and 41% 
graduate students.
METHODS: Background data, in addition to the Spreitzer Psychological Empowerment 
Scale, the Wagnild and Young Resilience Scale, and the Spiritual Well-Being 
Scale and the Mayer-Salovey-Caruso Emotional Intelligence Test, was collected 
from students who met study criteria.
RESULTS: In a combined sample, academic success was correlated with overall 
spiritual well-being, empowerment and resilience. Although academic success was 
not correlated with overall emotional intelligence, it was correlated with the 
emotional intelligence branch four (managing emotions) score. When undergraduate 
and graduate students were considered separately, only one correlation was found 
to be significantly related to academic success in the undergraduate sample, 
namely, emotional intelligence branch one (perceiving emotions). When examining 
the data from just graduate level nurses, significant relationships were found 
between total emotional intelligence with academic success, resilience with 
academic success, and psychological empowerment with academic success.
CONCLUSION: The significant relationship between psychological empowerment, 
resilience, spiritual well-being and academic success in this study supports the 
statements in the literature that these concepts may play an important role in 
persistence through the challenges of nursing education. Research is needed to 
examine if strategies to enhance empowerment, resilience, and spiritual 
well-being can increase academic success in a test-retest design.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nedt.2013.12.005
PMID: 24380623 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1544. Eur J Med Genet. 2014 Feb;57(2-3):81-4. doi: 10.1016/j.ejmg.2013.12.005. Epub 
2013 Dec 28.

A prenatal case of split-hand malformation associated with 17p13.3 triplication 
- a dilemma in genetic counseling.

Luk HM(1), Wong VC(2), Lo IF(1), Chan KY(3), Lau ET(3), Kan AS(4), Tang MH(5), 
Tang WF(6), She WM(2), Chu YW(2), Sin WK(7), Chung BH(8).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Genetic Service, Department of Health, Hong Kong, China.
(2)Department of Paediatrics and Adolescent Medicine, Queen Mary Hospital, Li Ka 
Shing Faculty of Medicine, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China.
(3)Department of Obstetrics & Gynaecology, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, The 
University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China; Prenatal Diagnostic and Counseling 
Department, Tsan Yuk Hospital, Hong Kong, China.
(4)Department of Obstetrics & Gynaecology, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, The 
University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China; Department of Obstetrics & 
Gynaecology, Queen Mary Hospital, Hong Kong, China.
(5)Prenatal Diagnostic and Counseling Department, Tsan Yuk Hospital, Hong Kong, 
China.
(6)Department of Obstetrics & Gynaecology, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, The 
University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China.
(7)Department of Obstetrics & Gynaecology, Tuen Mun Hospital, Hong Kong, China.
(8)Department of Paediatrics and Adolescent Medicine, Queen Mary Hospital, Li Ka 
Shing Faculty of Medicine, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China; 
Department of Obstetrics & Gynaecology, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, The 
University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China. Electronic address: bhychung@hku.hk.

Copy number gain of 17p13.3 has been shown to be associated with developmental 
delay/autism and Split-Hand-Foot malformation. We report a case of fetus with 
bilateral split-hand malformation detected on prenatal ultrasound. Array 
comparative genomic hybridization detected 2 maternally inherited copy number 
gains in the 17p13.3 region with one of them involving the BHLHA9 gene and part 
of the YWHAE gene. The mother is normal in intelligence with mild right foot 
anomaly only. Although the BHLHA9 copy gain is known to be associated with 
split-hand-foot malformation, the penetrance and expressivity is highly 
variable. More challenging is the effect of partial YWHAE copy number gain on 
neurodevelopment is inconclusive based on current literature. This case 
highlights the difficulties of prenatal genetic counseling in array comparative 
genomic hybridization findings in clinical situation with incomplete 
understanding of genotype-phenotype correlation.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejmg.2013.12.005
PMID: 24380768 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1545. Indian J Endocrinol Metab. 2013 Nov;17(6):1078-83. doi: 
10.4103/2230-8210.122631.

Emotional, behavioral and cognitive profile, and quality of life of Indian 
children and adolescents with type 1 diabetes.

Puri K(1), Sapra S(1), Jain V(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, 
India.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, 
India ; Division of Pediatric Endocrinology, All India Institute of Medical 
Sciences, New Delhi, India.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: The psychological stress associated with type 1 diabetes 
(T1D) may be higher in children from developing world due to limited health 
resources. The aims of the study were to assess the quality of life (QoL), 
emotional well-being, behavioral, and cognitive profile of children/adolescents 
with T1D diagnosed at least 6 months prior.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Forty-nine children with T1D, aged 6-18 years were 
assessed using DAWN Youth QoL questionnaire, WHO-5 Well-Being Index, Child 
Behavior Checklist (CBCL), and Malin's Intelligence Scale for Indian children 
(MISIC). The association of the scores was studied with age, gender, 
socioeconomic status (SES), frequency of hypoglycemia, HbA1c, and age of onset 
and duration of T1D.
RESULTS: The mean (standard deviation (SD)) for DAWN QoL, WHO-5, CBCL, and MISIC 
scores was 24.7 (16.7), 74.6 (19.4), 52.6 (8.8), and 96.0 (11.2), respectively. 
The significant associations noted were: Elevated HbA1c with poorer emotional 
well-being; higher negative impact on 'symptoms of disease' and 'future 
prospects' sub-areas of QoL; shorter duration of disease with more behavioral 
issues; lower maternal education with more 'withdrawn/depressed' behaviors and 
'worry about future prospects'; and lower SES with lower MISIC scores. Earlier 
onset (age <5 years) was associated with fewer behavioral problems and less 
negative impact on QoL.
CONCLUSION: Children with recent diagnosis, older age at onset, lower maternal 
educational level, elevated HbA1c, or belonging to lower SES were identified to 
have higher prevalence of various psychological and cognitive problems. In 
resource-limited settings, these children should be prioritized for behavioral 
and cognitive evaluation.

DOI: 10.4103/2230-8210.122631
PMCID: PMC3872689
PMID: 24381888

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None declared


1546. Hum Brain Mapp. 2014 Aug;35(8):3760-73. doi: 10.1002/hbm.22435. Epub 2013 Dec 
31.

Genetic associations between intelligence and cortical thickness emerge at the 
start of puberty.

Brouwer RM(1), van Soelen IL, Swagerman SC, Schnack HG, Ehli EA, Kahn RS, 
Hulshoff Pol HE, Boomsma DI.

Author information:
(1)Brain Center Rudolf Magnus, Department of Psychiatry, University Medical 
Center Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands.

Cognitive abilities are related to (changes in) brain structure during 
adolescence and adulthood. Previous studies suggest that associations between 
cortical thickness and intelligence may be different at different ages. As both 
intelligence and cortical thickness are heritable traits, the question arises 
whether the association between cortical thickness development and intelligence 
is due to genes influencing both traits. We study this association in a 
longitudinal sample of young twins. Intelligence was assessed by standard IQ 
tests at age 9 in 224 twins, 190 of whom also underwent structural magnetic 
resonance imaging (MRI). Three years later at age 12, 177/125 twins returned for 
a follow-up measurement of intelligence/MRI scanning, respectively. We 
investigated whether cortical thickness was associated with intelligence and if 
so, whether this association was driven by genes. At age 9, there were no 
associations between cortical thickness and intelligence. At age 12, a negative 
relationship emerged. This association was mainly driven by verbal intelligence, 
and manifested itself most prominently in the left hemisphere. Cortical 
thickness and intelligence were explained by the same genes. As a post hoc 
analysis, we tested whether a specific allele (rs6265; Val66Met in the BDNF 
gene) contributed to this association. Met carriers showed lower intelligence 
and a thicker cortex, but only the association between the BDNF genotype and 
cortical thickness in the left superior parietal gyrus reached significance. In 
conclusion, it seems that brain areas contributing to (verbal) intellectual 
performance are specializing under the influence of genes around the onset of 
puberty.

Copyright © 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/hbm.22435
PMCID: PMC6868947
PMID: 24382822 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1547. J Exp Child Psychol. 2014 Apr;120:59-72. doi: 10.1016/j.jecp.2013.11.003. Epub 
2013 Dec 31.

Task structure complexity and goal neglect in typically developing children.

Roberts G(1), Anderson M(2).

Author information:
(1)Neurocognitive Development Unit, School of Psychology, University of Western 
Australia, Crawley 6009, WA, Australia; School of Psychology and Exercise 
Science, Murdoch University, Australia. Electronic address: 
g.roberts@murdoch.edu.au.
(2)Neurocognitive Development Unit, School of Psychology, University of Western 
Australia, Crawley 6009, WA, Australia; School of Psychology and Exercise 
Science, Murdoch University, Australia.

Goal neglect is a failure to enact task requirements despite being able to 
accurately report them. In this study, we introduce a new child-appropriate 
experimental paradigm to measure goal neglect in children between 7 and 11 years 
of age and test the hypothesis that the complexity of an action plan, not 
real-time trial demands, increases goal neglect. A total of 66 children 
(Mage=9.50 years) were administered a Feature Match task. Half of the children 
were given four rules for matching, and half were given three rules for 
matching. After practice, the four-rules group was told to ignore the additional 
rule, and both groups completed an identical three-rules task. The results 
showed that the extra rule increased goal neglect and its correlation with fluid 
intelligence. Although intermittent trial errors were correlated with fluid 
intelligence for both groups, only in the four-rules group were systematic rule 
failures (i.e., goal neglect) correlated with fluid intelligence. Task 
performance improved with chronological age; however, when controlling for the 
influence of fluid intelligence, the relationship between age and task 
performance was effectively removed. This suggests that a child's current level 
of fluid intelligence (and not age) determines task performance. We suggest that 
the relationship among goal neglect, complex task instructions, and fluid 
intelligence is linked to the mental preparation for future events, that is, 
mentally compiling verbal instructions into a set of activated goal 
representations in working memory that represent what is to be done and under 
what circumstances.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jecp.2013.11.003
PMID: 24384325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1548. PLoS One. 2013 Dec 31;8(12):e83528. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0083528. 
eCollection 2013.

A critical meta-analysis of lens model studies in human judgment and 
decision-making.

Kaufmann E(1), Reips UD(2), Wittmann WW(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Education, University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland ; 
Department of Economics, Chair of Business and Economics Education II, 
University of Konstanz, Konstanz, Germany.
(2)Department of Psychology, University of Konstanz, Konstanz, Germany.
(3)Otto-Selz Institute for Applied Psychology, University of Mannheim, Germany.

Achieving accurate judgment ('judgmental achievement') is of utmost importance 
in daily life across multiple domains. The lens model and the lens model 
equation provide useful frameworks for modeling components of judgmental 
achievement and for creating tools to help decision makers (e.g., physicians, 
teachers) reach better judgments (e.g., a correct diagnosis, an accurate 
estimation of intelligence). Previous meta-analyses of judgment and 
decision-making studies have attempted to evaluate overall judgmental 
achievement and have provided the basis for evaluating the success of 
bootstrapping (i.e., replacing judges by linear models that guide decision 
making). However, previous meta-analyses have failed to appropriately correct 
for a number of study design artifacts (e.g., measurement error, 
dichotomization), which may have potentially biased estimations (e.g., of the 
variability between studies) and led to erroneous interpretations (e.g., with 
regards to moderator variables). In the current study we therefore conduct the 
first psychometric meta-analysis of judgmental achievement studies that corrects 
for a number of study design artifacts. We identified 31 lens model studies 
(N = 1,151, k = 49) that met our inclusion criteria. We evaluated overall 
judgmental achievement as well as whether judgmental achievement depended on 
decision domain (e.g., medicine, education) and/or the level of expertise 
(expert vs. novice). We also evaluated whether using corrected estimates 
affected conclusions with regards to the success of bootstrapping with 
psychometrically-corrected models. Further, we introduce a new psychometric 
trim-and-fill method to estimate the effect sizes of potentially missing studies 
correct psychometric meta-analyses for effects of publication bias. Comparison 
of the results of the psychometric meta-analysis with the results of a 
traditional meta-analysis (which only corrected for sampling error) indicated 
that artifact correction leads to a) an increase in values of the lens model 
components, b) reduced heterogeneity between studies, and c) increases the 
success of bootstrapping. We argue that psychometric meta-analysis is useful for 
accurately evaluating human judgment and show the success of bootstrapping.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0083528
PMCID: PMC3877076
PMID: 24391781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


1549. Arq Neuropsiquiatr. 2013 Nov;71(11):896-901. doi: 10.1590/0004-282X20130174.

Correlation between sleep disorder screening and executive dysfunction in 
children with attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder.

Zambrano-Sánchez E(1), Martínez-Cortés JA(2), Dehesa-Moreno M(3), del Río-Carlos 
Y(3), Poblano A(4).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Cognitive Neurophysiology, National Institute of 
Rehabilitation, Mexico City, Mexico.
(2)Department of Neurological Rehabilitation, National Institute of 
Rehabilitation, Mexico City, Mexico.
(3)Department of Psychological Integral Rehabilitation and Psychiatry, National 
Institute of Rehabilitation, Mexico City, Mexico.
(4)Clinic of Sleep Disorders, School of Medicine, UNAM, Mexico City, Mexico.

OBJECTIVE: To compare frequency of sleep disorders (SD) and executive 
dysfunction (ED) in children with attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder 
(ADHD) and a control group.
METHOD: We studied 156 children with ADHD with a mean age of 8.5 years, and a 
control group with 111 children with a mean age of 8.3 years. We utilized the 
Pediatric Sleep Questionnaire (PSQ) to screen SD and the working memory 
measurement from the Wechsler intelligence scale for children (WISC-IV) to 
screen ED.
RESULTS: We did not observe an increased frequency of SD in children with ADHD 
compared with the controls. However, we did identify ED in children with ADHD; 
additionally a significant correlation was observed between the type of ADHD and 
SD and among ED, WISC-IV measurements, and type of SD in children with ADHD.
CONCLUSION: An increase of SD frequency in children with ADHD was not observed, 
but we did identify ED in children with ADHD. Additionally, a correlation among 
ADHD types, SD, ED, and WISC-IV measurements was observed in children with ADHD.

DOI: 10.1590/0004-282X20130174
PMID: 24394878 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1550. Endocrinol Metab (Seoul). 2013 Sep;28(3):236-40. doi: 10.3803/EnM.2013.28.3.236. 
Epub 2013 Sep 13.

Polyglandular Autoimmune Syndrome Type III with Primary Hypoparathyroidism.

Kim SJ(1), Kim SY(1), Kim HB(1), Chang H(2), Cho HC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Keimyung University School of Medicine, 
Daegu, Korea.
(2)Department of Radiology, Keimyung University School of Medicine, Daegu, 
Korea.

Polyglandular autoimmune syndrome is defined as multiple endocrine gland 
insufficiencies accompanied by autoimmune diseases of the endocrine and 
nonendocrine system. After Schmidt introduced a case of nontuberculosis adrenal 
gland dysfunction with thyroiditis in 1926, Neufeld defined polyglandular 
autoimmune syndrome by I, II, and III subtypes in 1980 by their presentation of 
occurrence age, heredity methods, relationship with human leukocyte antigen, and 
accompanying diseases. We report a case of a 32-year-old female with 
polyglandular autoimmune syndrome III accompanied by type 1 diabetes mellitus 
that was treated with insulin (36 units per day) for 11 years. She had insulin 
deficiency and Hashimoto thyroiditis as an autoimmune disorder. In addition, she 
had several features similar to Albright's hereditary osteodystrophy including 
short stature, truncal obesity, round face, short neck, low intelligence (full 
IQ 84), and decreased memory. Although Albright's hereditary osteodystrophy is 
morphological evidence of pseudohypoparathyroidism or 
pseudopseudohypoparathyroidism, she had primary hypoparathyroidism on laboratory 
results. Here, we report a case of polyglandular autoimmune syndrome III with 
type 1 diabetes mellitus, autoimmune thyroiditis, and primary 
hypoparathyroidism, accompanied by clinical features similar to Albright's 
hereditary osteodystrophy.

DOI: 10.3803/EnM.2013.28.3.236
PMCID: PMC3811692
PMID: 24396685

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest relevant to 
this article was reported.


1551. J Psychiatr Res. 2014 Mar;50:100-105. doi: 10.1016/j.jpsychires.2013.12.010. 
Epub 2013 Dec 28.

Spatial working memory ability in individuals at ultra high risk for psychosis.

Goghari VM(1)(2), Brett C(2), Tabraham P(2), Johns L(2)(3), Valmaggia L(2)(3), 
Broome M(2)(4), Woolley J(2), Bramon E(2), Howes O(2), Byrne M(#)(2), McGuire 
P(#)(2).

Author information:
(1)Departments of Psychology and Psychiatry, Hotchkiss Brain Institute, 
University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta, Canada.
(2)Department of Psychosis Studies, Institute of Psychiatry, King's College of 
London, London, UK.
(3)Department of Psychology, Institute of Psychiatry, King's College of London, 
London, UK.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(#)Contributed equally

The goal of this investigation was to clarify the nature of spatial working 
memory difficulties in individuals at ultra high risk (UHR) for psychosis. We 
evaluated spatial working memory and intelligence in 96 individuals at UHR for 
psychosis, 28 patients with first episode psychosis (FEP), and 23 healthy 
controls. Fourteen UHR individuals developed a psychotic disorder during 
follow-up. Compared to controls, the UHR group was impaired in both the 
short-term maintenance of material and in the effective use of strategy, but not 
more immediate memory. These impairments were not as severe as those in the FEP 
group, as the UHR group performed better than the FEP group. A similar pattern 
of results was found for the intelligence measures. Discriminant function 
analyses demonstrated short-term maintenance of material significantly 
differentiated the UHR and healthy control groups even when accounting for full 
scale intelligence quotient (IQ); whereas full scale IQ significantly 
differentiated the UHR and FEP groups and FEP and control groups. Notably, 
within the UHR group, impaired spatial working memory performance was associated 
with lower global functioning, but not full scale IQ. The subgroup of UHR 
individuals who later developed psychosis was not significantly more impaired on 
any aspect of working memory performance than the group of UHR individuals who 
did not develop psychosis. Given, the relationship between spatial working 
memory deficits and functional outcome, these results indicate that cognitive 
remediation could be useful in individuals at UHR for psychosis to potentially 
improve functioning.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpsychires.2013.12.010
PMCID: PMC4127476
PMID: 24398256 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1552. Front Psychiatry. 2013 Dec 24;4:176. doi: 10.3389/fpsyt.2013.00176. eCollection 
2013.

Dysconnectivity in the frontoparietal attention network in schizophrenia.

Roiser JP(1), Wigton R(2), Kilner JM(3), Mendez MA(4), Hon N(5), Friston KJ(6), 
Joyce EM(7).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Cognitive Neuroscience, University College London , London , UK.
(2)Psychosis Studies, Cognition and Schizophrenia Imaging Lab, Institute of 
Psychiatry, King's College London , London , UK.
(3)Wellcome Trust Centre for Neuroimaging, University College London , London , 
UK ; Institute of Neurology, University College London , London , UK.
(4)Department of Forensic and Neurodevelopmental Sciences, Institute of 
Psychiatry, King's College London , London , UK.
(5)Department of Psychology, National University of Singapore , Singapore.
(6)Wellcome Trust Centre for Neuroimaging, University College London , London , 
UK.
(7)Institute of Neurology, University College London , London , UK.

Cognitive impairment is common in patients with schizophrenia, and even those 
with relatively preserved function perform worse than healthy volunteers (HVs) 
on attentional tasks. This is consistent with the hypothesis that connectivity - 
in the frontoparietal network (FPN) activated during attention - is disrupted in 
schizophrenia. We examined attentional effects on connectivity in the FPN, in 
schizophrenia, using magnetoencephalography (MEG). Twenty-three HVs and 19 
first-episode schizophrenia patients were scanned during a simple visual change 
test, known to activate the FPN, in which attention was monitored and directed 
with an orthogonal flicker-detection task. Dynamic causal modeling (DCM) of 
evoked responses was used to assess effective connectivity - and its modulation 
by changes in the attended stimulus dimension - in the following network: higher 
visual area; temporoparietal junction (TPJ); intraparietal sulcus (IPS); dorsal 
anterior cingulate cortex; and ventrolateral prefrontal cortex. The final MEG 
analysis included 18 HVs and 14 schizophrenia patients. While all participants 
were able to maintain attention, HVs responded slightly, but non-significantly, 
more accurately than schizophrenia patients. HVs, but not schizophrenia 
patients, exhibited greater cortical responses to attended visual changes. 
Bayesian model comparison revealed that a DCM with attention dependent changes 
in both top-down and bottom-up connections best explained responses by patients 
with schizophrenia, while in HVs the best model required only bottom-up changes. 
Quantitative comparison of connectivity estimates revealed a significant group 
difference in changes in the right IPS-TPJ connection: schizophrenia patients 
showed relative reductions in connectivity during attended stimulus changes. 
Crucially, this reduction predicted lower intelligence. These data are 
consistent with the hypothesis that functional dysconnections in the FPN 
contribute to cognitive impairment in schizophrenia.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyt.2013.00176
PMCID: PMC3871715
PMID: 24399975


1553. IEEE/ACM Trans Comput Biol Bioinform. 2013 Nov-Dec;10(6):1491-504. doi: 
10.1109/TCBB.2013.119.

EEG/ERP adaptive noise canceller design with controlled search space (CSS) 
approach in cuckoo and other optimization algorithms.

Ahirwal MK(1), Kumar A(1), Singh GK(2).

Author information:
(1)PanditDwarka Prasad Mishra Indian Institute of Information Technology, Design 
& Manufacturing Jabalpur, Jabalpur.
(2)Indian Institute of Technology Roorkee, India, Jabalpur and University of 
Malaya, Malaysia.

This paper explores the migration of adaptive filtering with swarm 
intelligence/evolutionary techniques employed in the field of 
electroencephalogram/event-related potential noise cancellation or extraction. A 
new approach is proposed in the form of controlled search space to stabilize the 
randomness of swarm intelligence techniques especially for the EEG signal. 
Swarm-based algorithms such as Particles Swarm Optimization, Artificial Bee 
Colony, and Cuckoo Optimization Algorithm with their variants are implemented to 
design optimized adaptive noise canceler. The proposed controlled search space 
technique is tested on each of the swarm intelligence techniques and is found to 
be more accurate and powerful. Adaptive noise canceler with traditional 
algorithms such as least-mean-square, normalized least-mean-square, and 
recursive least-mean-square algorithms are also implemented to compare the 
results. ERP signals such as simulated visual evoked potential, real visual 
evoked potential, and real sensorimotor evoked potential are used, due to their 
physiological importance in various EEG studies. Average computational time and 
shape measures of evolutionary techniques are observed 8.21E-01 sec and 
1.73E-01, respectively. Though, traditional algorithms take negligible time 
consumption, but are unable to offer good shape preservation of ERP, noticed as 
average computational time and shape measure difference, 1.41E-02 sec and 
2.60E+00, respectively.

DOI: 10.1109/TCBB.2013.119
PMID: 24407307 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1554. Codas. 2013;25(2):110-4. doi: 10.1590/s2317-17822013000200004.

Phonological awareness and the working memory of children with and without 
literacy difficulties.

[Article in English, Portuguese]

Cardoso AM, Silva MM, Pereira MM.

PURPOSE: To investigate phonological awareness and working memory skills as well 
as their influence on the literacy process in a group of intellectually normal 
children.
METHODS: Forty intellectually normal children (7.6-8.0 years) from the second 
and third grades of elementary school participated. Children were organized in 
two groups (20 children each): one with and another without literacy 
difficulties. These participants underwent RAVEN's intelligence quotient test, 
audiometric assessment, CONFIAS test of phonological awareness, written spelling 
task, and working memory test.
RESULTS: Children in the alphabetic phase presented a good development of 
phonological awareness, and 85% of them showed a high-performance working 
memory. Children in the syllabic-alphabetic phase had changes in phonological 
awareness, and 91.6% of them showed an average working memory performance. The 
subjects at pre-syllabic and syllabic phases demonstrated more difficulties in 
phonological awareness than those at syllabic-alphabetic and had a poor working 
memory performance. Between-group differences were observed for CONFIAS and 
working memory tests (p<0.0001). There was also a significant correlation 
(r=0.78, p=0.01) between the skills of phonological awareness and working memory 
for the total sample of individuals.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on these results, it was found that as phonological awareness 
and working memory levels increased, the literacy phase also advanced, therefore 
showing that these are directly proportional measures.

DOI: 10.1590/s2317-17822013000200004
PMID: 24408238 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1555. Codas. 2013;25(3):262-7. doi: 10.1590/s2317-17822013000300012.

The use of nouns and verbs by children with Down syndrome in two different 
situations.

[Article in English, Portuguese]

Limongi SC, Oliveira Ede F, Ienne LM, Andrade RV, Carvalho AM.

PURPOSE: To verify the use of nouns and verbs by children with Down syndrome and 
to compare this use between conditions of interaction with the mother and the 
Speech-language pathologist (SLP).
METHODS: Participants were 21 children aged between 5 and 11 years, divided into 
three groups, according to chronological and mental age as established by the 
results of the Primary Tests of Nonverbal Intelligence. The speech sample was 
obtained through free interaction situations that were videotaped during session 
of 30 minutes and transcribed in specific protocols. The first 100 utterances 
from the first five minutes were used. The interval between each situation 
ranged from 7 to 15 days. T-test and analysis of variance were used for 
statistical analysis and the significance level adopted was of 5%.
RESULTS: More verbs than nouns were used in both conditions; however, a higher 
number of nouns were observed during the interaction with the SLP. The 
between-group comparison in the interaction with the SLP shows significant 
differences for verbs and nouns, but during the interaction with the mother, 
there was tendency for difference only for the verbs.
CONCLUSION: The data indicate the growing development on using of nouns and 
verbs according to the increase of age. There was a higher use of verbs when 
compared with nouns mainly in the condition of interaction with the SLP.

DOI: 10.1590/s2317-17822013000300012
PMID: 24408338 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1556. Sleep Med. 2014 Feb;15(2):213-8. doi: 10.1016/j.sleep.2013.08.793. Epub 2013 Dec 
13.

Sleep disorders in children with cerebral palsy: neurodevelopmental and 
behavioral correlates.

Romeo DM(1), Brogna C(1), Quintiliani M(1), Baranello G(2), Pagliano E(2), 
Casalino T(2), Sacco A(1), Ricci D(1), Mallardi M(1), Musto E(1), Sivo S(1), 
Cota F(3), Battaglia D(1), Bruni O(4), Mercuri E(5).

Author information:
(1)Paediatric Neurology Unit, Catholic University, Rome, Italy.
(2)Developmental Neurology Unit, C. Besta Neurological Institute Foundation, 
Milan, Italy.
(3)Neonatal Unit, Catholic University, Rome, Italy.
(4)Centre for Pediatric Sleep Disorders, Department of Social and Developmental 
Psychology - Sapienza University, Rome, Italy.
(5)Paediatric Neurology Unit, Catholic University, Rome, Italy. Electronic 
address: mercuri@rm.unicatt.it.

OBJECTIVES: We aimed to estimate the frequency of sleep disorders in children 
with cerebral palsy (CP) using the Sleep Disturbance Scale for Children (SDSC) 
and to evaluate the relations between sleep disorders and motor, cognitive, and 
behavioral problems.
METHODS: One hundred and sixty-five children with CP ages 6-16 years (mean age, 
11years) were assessed using the SDSC, the Gross Motor Function Classification 
System (GMFCS), the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children and the Child 
Behavior Check List (CBCL) to assess sleep, motor, cognitive, and behavioral 
problems, respectively.
RESULTS: An abnormal total sleep score was found in 19% of children with CP; 
more than 40% of children had an abnormal score on at least one SDSC factor. The 
SDSC total score was significantly associated (P<.01) with mental retardation, 
epilepsy, CBCL scores, and level 5 on the GMFCS.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results confirm that sleep disorders are common in children 
with cerebral palsy. The relationship between motor and cognitive behavior and 
epilepsy should be further explored to better understand how these factors 
influence one another to identify effective treatments and to improve the 
well-being of the child.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.sleep.2013.08.793
PMID: 24424102 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1557. Proc IEEE Inst Electr Electron Eng. 2013 Dec 1;101(12):2470-2494. doi: 
10.1109/JPROC.2013.2262913.

A Survey on Ambient Intelligence in Health Care.

Acampora G(1), Cook DJ(2), Rashidi P(3), Vasilakos AV(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Industrial Engineering, Information Systems, Eindhoven University 
of Technology, Eindhoven, 5600 MB, the Netherlands. g.acampora@tue.nl.
(2)Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Washington State 
University, Pullman, WA, 99164, US. cook@eecs.wsu.edu.
(3)Biomedical Informatics at Feinberg school of Medicine at Northwestern 
University, Chicago, IL, 60611, US. parisa.rashidi@northwestern.edu.
(4)Department of Computer and Telecommunications Engineering, University of 
Western Macedonia, Greece. vasilako@ath.forthnet.gr.

Ambient Intelligence (AmI) is a new paradigm in information technology aimed at 
empowering people's capabilities by the means of digital environments that are 
sensitive, adaptive, and responsive to human needs, habits, gestures, and 
emotions. This futuristic vision of daily environment will enable innovative 
human-machine interactions characterized by pervasive, unobtrusive and 
anticipatory communications. Such innovative interaction paradigms make ambient 
intelligence technology a suitable candidate for developing various real life 
solutions, including in the health care domain. This survey will discuss the 
emergence of ambient intelligence (AmI) techniques in the health care domain, in 
order to provide the research community with the necessary background. We will 
examine the infrastructure and technology required for achieving the vision of 
ambient intelligence, such as smart environments and wearable medical devices. 
We will summarize of the state of the art artificial intelligence methodologies 
used for developing AmI system in the health care domain, including various 
learning techniques (for learning from user interaction), reasoning techniques 
(for reasoning about users' goals and intensions) and planning techniques (for 
planning activities and interactions). We will also discuss how AmI technology 
might support people affected by various physical or mental disabilities or 
chronic disease. Finally, we will point to some of the successful case studies 
in the area and we will look at the current and future challenges to draw upon 
the possible future research paths.

DOI: 10.1109/JPROC.2013.2262913
PMCID: PMC3890262
PMID: 24431472


1558. Sci Justice. 2014 Jan;54(1):32-41. doi: 10.1016/j.scijus.2013.08.006. Epub 2013 
Sep 12.

The use of organic and inorganic impurities found in MDMA police seizures in a 
drug intelligence perspective.

Morelato M(1), Beavis A(1), Tahtouh M(2), Ribaux O(3), Kirkbride P(4), Roux 
C(5).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Forensic Science, University of Technology, Sydney, Broadway, NSW, 
Australia.
(2)Forensics, Australian Federal Police, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(3)Ecole des Sciences Criminelles, Université de Lausanne, Lausanne-Dorigny, 
Switzerland.
(4)School of Chemical and Physical Sciences, Flinders University, Bedford Park, 
South Australia, Australia.
(5)Centre for Forensic Science, University of Technology, Sydney, Broadway, NSW, 
Australia. Electronic address: Claude.Roux@uts.edu.au.

Traditional forensic drug profiling involves numerous analytical techniques, and 
the whole process is typically costly and may be time consuming. The aim of this 
study was to investigate the possibility of prioritising techniques utilised at 
the Australian Federal Police (AFP) for the chemical profiling of 
3,4-methylenedioxymethylamphetamine (MDMA). The outcome would provide the AFP 
with the ability to obtain more timely and valuable results that could be used 
in an intelligence perspective. Correlation coefficients were used to obtain a 
similarity degree between a population of linked samples (within seizures) and a 
population of unlinked samples (between different seizures) and discrimination 
between the two populations was ultimately achieved. The results showed that gas 
chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) was well suited as a single technique 
to detect links between seizures and could be used in priority for operational 
intelligence purposes. Furthermore, the method was applied to seizures known or 
suspected (through their case information) to be linked to each other to assess 
the chemical similarity between samples. It was found that half of the seizures 
previously linked by the case number were also linked by the chemical profile. 
This procedure was also able to highlight links between cases that were 
previously unsuspected and retrospectively confirmed by circumstantial 
information. The findings are finally discussed in the broader forensic 
intelligence context, with a focus on how they could be successfully 
incorporated into investigations and in an intelligence-led policing perspective 
in order to understand trafficking markets.

© 2014.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scijus.2013.08.006
PMID: 24438775


1559. Sci Justice. 2014 Jan;54(1):49-56. doi: 10.1016/j.scijus.2013.03.005. Epub 2013 
Apr 30.

The spatial and temporal distribution of pollen in a room: forensic 
implications.

Morgan RM(1), Allen E(2), King T(2), Bull PA(2).

Author information:
(1)UCL Department of Security and Crime Science, Jill Dando Institute, 35 
Tavistock Square, London, WC1H 9EZ, United Kingdom; UCL JDI Centre for the 
Forensic Sciences, 35 Tavistock Square, London, WC1H 9EZ, United Kingdom. 
Electronic address: ruth.morgan@ucl.ac.uk.
(2)Oxford University Centre for the Environment, South Parks Road, Oxford, OX1 
3QY, United Kingdom.

This paper presents two experimental studies that deal with the spatial and 
temporal distribution of pollen grains within a room of a domestic dwelling. The 
findings concur with the preliminary work of Morgan et al. [1] and provide 
greater detail as to the behaviour of pollen grains within indoor locations that 
are pertinent for forensic investigations. The spatial distribution of pollen in 
a room exhibits strong distance decay trends, with the majority of pollen 
recovered within 0.8m of its source. The pollen was found to persist in 
increasing quantities during the time the flowers were in the room. This study 
also shows that 20days after the flowers were removed, 25-32% of the original 
pollen was still present within the room. The influence of disturbance was 
investigated and whilst areas of high disturbance were found to retain less 
pollen than undisturbed locations, the influence of the proximity to source was 
a more dominant factor. These findings have significant implications for 
forensic investigation protocols, particularly the collection and interpretation 
phases of trace evidence analysis. The distribution of pollen around a room 
ensures that viable sources of trace pollen are available for transfer if 
contact is made between a location in the room and a suspect. The persistence of 
pollen many days after the flowers have been removed from a room indicates that 
many rooms in domestic dwellings will have distinctive assemblages that reflect 
the history of the flowers that have been displayed within that room in the 
past, and that these assemblages will persist and therefore be available for 
transfer. These preliminary findings indicate that investigation by forensic 
palynology in indoor domestic settings may well be an underutilised technique 
that has the potential to provide accurate and valuable intelligence and 
evidence for forensic enquiry.

Copyright © 2014 Forensic Science Society. Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scijus.2013.03.005
PMID: 24438777 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1560. Forensic Sci Int. 2014 Feb;235:68-77. doi: 10.1016/j.forsciint.2013.11.016. Epub 
2013 Dec 16.

Chemical analysis of pharmaceuticals and explosives in fingermarks using 
matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization/time-of-flight mass spectrometry.

Kaplan-Sandquist K(1), LeBeau MA(2), Miller ML(3).

Author information:
(1)Counterterrorism and Forensic Science Research Unit, Visiting Scientist 
Program, Federal Bureau of Investigation Laboratory Division, Quantico, VA, 
United States.
(2)Scientific Analysis Section, Federal Bureau of Investigation Laboratory 
Division, Quantico, VA, United States.
(3)Counterterrorism and Forensic Science Research Unit, Federal Bureau of 
Investigation Laboratory Division, Quantico, VA, United States. Electronic 
address: Mark.L.Miller@ic.fbi.gov.

Chemical analysis of latent fingermarks, "touch chemistry," has the potential of 
providing intelligence or forensically relevant information. Matrix-assisted 
laser desorption ionization/time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI/TOF MS) was 
used as an analytical platform for obtaining mass spectra and chemical images of 
target drugs and explosives in fingermark residues following conventional 
fingerprint development methods and MALDI matrix processing. There were two main 
purposes of this research: (1) develop effective laboratory methods for 
detecting drugs and explosives in fingermark residues and (2) determine the 
feasibility of detecting drugs and explosives after casual contact with pills, 
powders, and residues. Further, synthetic latent print reference pads were 
evaluated as mimics of natural fingermark residue to determine if the pads could 
be used for method development and quality control. The results suggest that 
artificial amino acid and sebaceous oil residue pads are not suitable to 
adequately simulate natural fingermark chemistry for MALDI/TOF MS analysis. 
However, the pads were useful for designing experiments and setting instrumental 
parameters. Based on the natural fingermark residue experiments, handling whole 
or broken pills did not transfer sufficient quantities of drugs to allow for 
definitive detection. Transferring drugs or explosives in the form of powders 
and residues was successful for preparing analytes for detection after contact 
with fingers and deposition of fingermark residue. One downfall to handling 
powders was that the analyte particles were easily spread beyond the original 
fingermark during development. Analyte particles were confined in the original 
fingermark when using transfer residues. The MALDI/TOF MS was able to detect 
procaine, pseudoephedrine, TNT, and RDX from contact residue under laboratory 
conditions with the integration of conventional fingerprint development methods 
and MALDI matrix. MALDI/TOF MS is a nondestructive technique which provides 
chemical information in both the mass spectra and chemical images.

Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.forsciint.2013.11.016
PMID: 24447453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1561. Neuropsychiatr Dis Treat. 2013;9:1803-10. doi: 10.2147/NDT.S53853. Epub 2013 Nov 
15.

Effectiveness and safety of Nintendo Wii Fit Plus™ training in children with 
migraine without aura: a preliminary study.

Esposito M(1), Ruberto M(2), Gimigliano F(3), Marotta R(4), Gallai B(5), Parisi 
L(6), Lavano SM(4), Roccella M(6), Carotenuto M(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Childhood Headache, Child and Adolescent Neuropsychiatry Clinic, 
Department of Mental Health, Physical and Preventive Medicine, Naples, Italy.
(2)Department of Odonto-Stomathologic Disciplines, Pathology - Orthopedic 
Sciences, Second University of Naples, Naples, Italy.
(3)Center for Childhood Headache, Child and Adolescent Neuropsychiatry Clinic, 
Department of Mental Health, Physical and Preventive Medicine, Naples, Italy ; 
Department of Odonto-Stomathologic Disciplines, Pathology - Orthopedic Sciences, 
Second University of Naples, Naples, Italy.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, "Magna Graecia" University of Catanzaro, Catanzaro, 
Italy.
(5)Unit of Child and Adolescent Neuropsychiatry, University of Perugia, Perugia, 
Italy.
(6)Child Neuropsychiatry, Department of Psychology, University of Palermo, 
Palermo, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Migraine without aura (MoA) is a painful syndrome, particularly in 
childhood; it is often accompanied by severe impairments, including emotional 
dysfunction, absenteeism from school, and poor academic performance, as well as 
issues relating to poor cognitive function, sleep habits, and motor 
coordination.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The study population consisted of 71 patients affected by 
MoA (32 females, 39 males) (mean age: 9.13±1.94 years); the control group 
consisted of 93 normally developing children (44 females, 49 males) (mean age: 
8.97±2.03 years) recruited in the Campania school region. The entire population 
underwent a clinical evaluation to assess total intelligence quotient level, 
visual-motor integration (VMI) skills, and motor coordination performance, the 
later using the Movement Assessment Battery for Children (M-ABC). Children 
underwent training using the Wii-balance board and Nintendo Wii Fit Plus™ 
software (Nintendo Co, Ltd, Kyoto, Japan); training lasted for 12 weeks and 
consisted of three 30-minute sessions per week at their home.
RESULTS: The two starting populations (MoA and controls) were not significantly 
different for age (P=0.899) and sex (P=0.611). M-ABC and VMI performances at 
baseline (T0) were significantly different in dexterity, balance, and total 
score for M-ABC (P<0.001) and visual (P=0.003) and motor (P<0.001) tasks for 
VMI. After 3 months of Wii training (T1), MoA children showed a significant 
improvement in M-ABC global performance (P<0.001), M-ABC dexterity (P<0.001), 
M-ABC balance (P<0.001), and VMI motor task (P<0.001).
CONCLUSION: Our study reported the positive effects of the Nintendo Wii Fit 
Plus™ system as a rehabilitative device for the visuomotor and balance skills 
impairments among children affected by MoA, even if further research and longer 
follow-up are needed.

DOI: 10.2147/NDT.S53853
PMCID: PMC3890965
PMID: 24453490


1562. South Asian J Cancer. 2013 Oct;2(4):285-7. doi: 10.4103/2278-330X.119903.

Angelina's choice.

Goel NS(1).

Author information:
(1)A-3 1001 1002, Loknirman Building, Ambedkar Road, Khar West, Yoga Consultant, 
Social Worker, Mumbai - 400 052, India.

This is an opinion piece on how a celebrity's personal choice to undergo 
prophylactic mastectomy on discovery of an aberrant gene, when publicly 
promoted, carries in itself the power to influence and impact healthcare trends 
and decisions. When celebrities advocate causes that are universally and 
uniformly acceptable and indisputable as the best in the realm of healthcare and 
cure (e.g. no smoking), it creates well-being and awareness in society at large. 
But those which are personal choices made out of a repertoire of other available 
and effective options may, because of celebrity preference, don the mantle of a 
norm. They thus run the danger of being blindly replicated by others without 
proper awareness and knowledge of the true potential of disease, risk factors, 
and other existing remedial or risk-reducing measures. Society should thus be 
encouraged to question, debate, and understand the validity, authenticity, and 
reason of the choices, especially those with a medical basis. This tempering of 
information with intelligence and rationale and making informed choices based on 
facts will serve humanity as a whole.

DOI: 10.4103/2278-330X.119903
PMCID: PMC3889063
PMID: 24455660

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None declared.


1563. J Bus Contin Emer Plan. 2013-2014 Winter;7(2):103-11.

Cyber security: a critical examination of information sharing versus data 
sensitivity issues for organisations at risk of cyber attack.

Mallinder J, Drabwell P.

Cyber threats are growing and evolving at an unprecedented rate.Consequently, it 
is becoming vitally important that organisations share information internally 
and externally before, during and after incidents they encounter so that lessons 
can be learned, good practice identified and new cyber resilience capabilities 
developed. Many organisations are reluctant to share such information for fear 
of divulging sensitive information or because it may be vague or incomplete. 
This provides organisations with a complex dilemma: how to share information as 
openly as possibly about cyber incidents, while protecting their confidentiality 
and focusing on service recovery from such incidents. This paper explores the 
dilemma of information sharing versus sensitivity and provides a practical 
overview of considerations every business continuity plan should address to plan 
effectively for information sharing in the event of a cyber incident.

PMID: 24457322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1564. Asian Pac J Cancer Prev. 2013;14(12):7757-9. doi: 10.7314/apjcp.2013.14.12.7757.

Multi-agent systems: effective approach for cancer care information management.

Mohammadzadeh N(1), Safdari R, Rahimi A.

Author information:
(1)Health Information Management Department, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences E-mail : nmohammadzadeh@razi.tums.ac.ir.

Physicians, in order to study the causes of cancer, detect cancer earlier, 
prevent or determine the effectiveness of treatment, and specify the reasons for 
the treatment ineffectiveness, need to access accurate, comprehensive, and 
timely cancer data. The cancer care environment has become more complex because 
of the need for coordination and communication among health care professionals 
with different skills in a variety of roles and the existence of large amounts 
of data with various formats. The goals of health care systems in such a complex 
environment are correct health data management, providing appropriate 
information needs of users to enhance the integrity and quality of health care, 
timely access to accurate information and reducing medical errors. These roles 
in new systems with use of agents efficiently perform well. Because of the 
potential capability of agent systems to solve complex and dynamic health 
problems, health care system, in order to gain full advantage of E- health, 
steps must be taken to make use of this technology. Multi-agent systems have 
effective roles in health service quality improvement especially in 
telemedicine, emergency situations and management of chronic diseases such as 
cancer. In the design and implementation of agent based systems, planning items 
such as information confidentiality and privacy, architecture, communication 
standards, ethical and legal aspects, identification opportunities and barriers 
should be considered. It should be noted that usage of agent systems only with a 
technical view is associated with many problems such as lack of user acceptance. 
The aim of this commentary is to survey applications, opportunities and barriers 
of this new artificial intelligence tool for cancer care information as an 
approach to improve cancer care management.

DOI: 10.7314/apjcp.2013.14.12.7757
PMID: 24460364 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1565. Int J Pediatr Otorhinolaryngol. 2013 Dec;77(12):1975-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijporl.2013.09.015.

Children with cochlear implants: cognitive skills, adaptive behaviors, social 
and emotional skills.

De Giacomo A, Craig F, D'Elia A, Giagnotti F, Matera E, Quaranta N.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study is to examine cognitive skills, adaptive 
behavior, social and emotional skills in deaf children with cochlear implant 
(CI) compared to normal hearing children.
METHODS: The study included twenty children affected by profound hearing loss 
implanted with a CI compared to 20 healthy children matched to chronological age 
and gender.
RESULTS: Results of this study indicated that 55% of children with CI showed a 
score in the normal range of nonverbal intelligence (IQ > 84), 40% in the 
borderline range (71 < IQ < 84) and 5% were in mild range(50 < IQ < 70). No 
significant differences were found after comparison with normal hearing 
children.Children with CI reported more abnormalities in emotional symptoms (p = 
.018) and peer problems(p = .037) than children with normal hearing. Age of CI 
was negatively correlated with IQ (p = .002),positively correlated with 
emotional symptoms (p = .04) and with peer problems (p = .02).
CONCLUSIONS: CI has a positive effect on the lives of deaf children, especially 
if it is implanted in much earlier ages.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijporl.2013.09.015
PMID: 24466572 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1566. J Bioinform Comput Biol. 2014 Feb;12(1):1350017. doi: 10.1142/S0219720013500170. 
Epub 2013 Dec 2.

Is protein folding problem really a NP-complete one? First investigations.

Guyeux C(1), Côté NM, Bahi JM, Bienia W.

Author information:
(1)FEMTO-ST Institute, UMR 6174 CNRS, University of Franche-Comté, Besançon, 
France.

To determine the 3D conformation of proteins is a necessity to understand their 
functions or interactions with other molecules. It is commonly admitted that, 
when proteins fold from their primary linear structures to their final 3D 
conformations, they tend to choose the ones that minimize their free energy. To 
find the 3D conformation of a protein knowing its amino acid sequence, 
bioinformaticians use various models of different resolutions and artificial 
intelligence tools, as the protein folding prediction problem is a NP complete 
one. More precisely, to determine the backbone structure of the protein using 
the low resolution models (2D HP square and 3D HP cubic), by finding the 
conformation that minimizes free energy, is intractable exactly. Both proofs of 
NP-completeness and the 2D prediction consider that acceptable conformations 
have to satisfy a self-avoiding walk (SAW) requirement, as two different amino 
acids cannot occupy a same position in the lattice. It is shown in this document 
that the SAW requirement considered when proving NP-completeness is different 
from the SAW requirement used in various prediction programs, and that they are 
different from the real biological requirement. Indeed, the proof of NP 
completeness and the predictions in silico consider conformations that are not 
possible in practice. Consequences of this fact are investigated in this 
research work.

DOI: 10.1142/S0219720013500170
PMID: 24467756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1567. Longev Healthspan. 2013 Jan 7;2(1):2. doi: 10.1186/2046-2395-2-2.

Systems integrity in health and aging - an animal model approach.

Oostindjer M(1), Amdam GV.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Biotechnology and Food Science, Norwegian University 
of Life Sciences, PO Box 5003, N-1432, Aas, Norway. Marije.Oostindjer@umb.no.

Human lifespan is positively correlated with childhood intelligence, as measured 
by psychometric (IQ) tests. The strength of this correlation is similar to the 
negative effect that smoking has on the life course. This result suggests that 
people who perform well on psychometric tests in childhood may remain healthier 
and live longer. The correlation, however, is debated: is it caused exclusively 
by social-environmental factors or could it also have a biological component? 
Biological traits of systems integrity that might result in correlations between 
brain function and lifespan have been suggested but are not well-established, 
and it is questioned what useful knowledge can come from understanding such 
mechanisms. In a recent study, we found a positive correlation between brain 
function and longevity in honey bees. Honey bees are highly social, but relevant 
social-environmental factors that contribute to cognition-survival correlations 
in humans are largely absent from insect colonies. Our results, therefore, 
suggest a biological explanation for the correlation in the bee. Here, we argue 
that individual differences in stress handling (coping) mechanisms, which both 
affect the bees' performance in tests of brain function and their survival could 
be a trait of systems integrity. Individual differences in coping are much 
studied in vertebrates, and several species provide attractive models. Here, we 
discuss how pigs are an interesting model for studying behavioural, 
physiological and molecular mechanisms that are recruited during stress and that 
can drive correlations between health, cognition and longevity traits. By 
revealing biological factors that make individuals susceptible to stress, it 
might be possible to alleviate health and longevity disparities in people.

DOI: 10.1186/2046-2395-2-2
PMCID: PMC3922947
PMID: 24472488


1568. Radiol Manage. 2013 Nov-Dec;35(6):30-5; quiz 36-7.

Enhance hospital performance from intellectual capital to business intelligence.

Karami M(1), Fatehi M(2), Torabi M(3), Langarizadeh M(4), Rahimi A(4), Safdari 
R(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Allied Medical Sciences, Tehran University of Medical Sciences in 
Tehran, Iran. karami_m@razi.tums.ac.ir
(2)Medical Imaging Informatics Research and Education Centre in Tehran, Iran.
(3)Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran University of Medical Sciences 
in Tehran, Iran.
(4)School of Allied Medical Sciences, Tehran University of Medical Sciences in 
Tehran, Iran.

Business intelligence (BI) refers to technologies, tools, and practices for 
collecting, integrating, analyzing, and presenting large volumes of information 
to enable better decision making. The aim of this study is to provide a general 
overview of BI and its impacts on improving hospital performance. In this paper, 
literature is reviewed on the concept, classification, and structure of 
intellectual capital and BI. Research on the building of BI and its impact on 
the performance of hospitals are briefly summarized. Some areas in healthcare 
which can utilize BI benefits, including radiology, are also discussed. Used 
properly, BI is an effective communication tool that can enable hospitals to 
reach strategic goals and objectives and can also help eliminate information 
asymmetry.

PMID: 24475528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1569. Postepy Dermatol Alergol. 2013 Dec;30(6):365-72. doi: 10.5114/pdia.2013.39435. 
Epub 2013 Dec 18.

Emotional intelligence as an indicator of satisfaction with life of patients 
with psoriasis.

Basińska MA(1), Drozdowska M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychopathology and Clinical Diagnosis, Institute of 
Psychology, Kazimierz Wielki University, Bydgoszcz, Poland. Head of Department: 
Małgorzata A. Basińska PhD, Prof. KWU.

INTRODUCTION: Research reports confirm the existence of a relation between 
emotional intelligence and various aspects of human functioning. It protects 
psychical and physical health of an individual, helps to adapt to new conditions 
and, consequently, contributes to the increase in life quality expressed in 
satisfaction with life. Psoriasis, a chronic skin disease, may negatively 
influence the psychical state of a patient and his or her social functioning, 
which leads to the decrease in satisfaction with life.
AIM: This research aimed at determining the relation between emotional 
intelligence and satisfaction with life in a group of patients with psoriasis.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The research group consisted of 81 people with psoriasis 
(40 men and 41 women) with the average age of 41.22 (SD = 14.18). The research 
tools used included the Emotional Intelligence Questionnaire INTE, Satisfaction 
With Life Scale (SWLS), personal questionnaire and PASI scale.
RESULTS: There is a positive correlation between emotional intelligence and 
satisfaction with life in the group of patients with psoriasis. Especially 
factor I - using emotions in thinking and operating - positively correlates with 
satisfaction with life.
CONCLUSIONS: Emotional intelligence together with the percentage of body area 
taken by pathological changes are the indicators of satisfaction with life in 
patients with psoriasis.

DOI: 10.5114/pdia.2013.39435
PMCID: PMC3907901
PMID: 24493999


1570. Neurodiagn J. 2013 Dec;53(4):289-311.

The relationship between sleep-activated interictal epileptiform discharges and 
intelligence in children.

Scott CM(1).

Author information:
(1)Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, USA. 
cscott6@partners.org

This study investigates the relationship between interictal epileptiform 
discharges (IEDs) during sleep in children with benign rolandic epilepsy (BRE) 
and cognitive test scores as measured by the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for 
Children-Fourth Edition (WISC-IV) with the hypothesis that, as IEDs increase, 
cognitive test scores decrease. Studies have shown that generalized seizures and 
status epilepticus can negatively impact cognition (Dodrill 2004), that children 
with epilepsy have lower cognitive function on average than children without 
epilepsy and that children with epilepsy and abnormal electroencephalograms 
(EEGs) have lower cognitive function than children with epilepsy and normal EEGs 
(Bailet et al. 2000). Studies have also indicated that as IEDs decrease, 
neurocognitive test scores increase (Baglietto et al. 2001). The current study 
evaluated sleep-activated IEDs in children with the specific syndrome of benign 
rolandic epilepsy based on the frequency of LEDs in sleep in relation to 
cognitive test scores. Neuropsychological test scores from the WISC-IV were 
gathered along with the number of spikes per minute detected in EEG recordings. 
Statistical analysis revealed a negative correlation between spike frequency and 
both processing speed and coding scores, though the relationship did not reach 
statistical significance. This study concludes that there may be correlations 
between increased spike density and cognitive test scores, or there might be 
other factors impacting cognition in BRE, but a larger sample is needed to 
further investigate. In addition, it is possible that a negative result in the 
present study represents good news, that the number of IEDs in BRE does not harm 
the brain by negatively impacting cognition.

PMID: 24494534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1571. Stand Genomic Sci. 2013 Jul 30;8(3):561-70. doi: 10.4056/sigs.4638348. 
eCollection 2013 Jul 30.

Prokaryotic Super Program Advisory Committee DOE Joint Genome Institute, Walnut 
Creek, CA, March 27, 2013.

Garrity GM(1), Banfield J(2), Eisen J(3), van der Lelie N(4), McMahon T(5), 
Rusch D(6), Delong E(7), Moran MA(8), Currie C(9), Furhman J(10), Hallam S(11), 
Hugenholtz P(12), Moran N(13), Nelson K(14), Roberts R(15), Stepanauskas R(16).

Author information:
(1)Microbiology & Molecular Genetics, Michigan State University, East Lansing, 
MI.
(2)Earth and Planetary Science, University of California, Berkeley, Berkeley, 
CA.
(3)Evolution and Ecology, University of California, Davis, Davis, CA.
(4)Center for Agricultural and Environmental Biotechnology, RTI International, 
Research Triangle Park, NC.
(5)Civil and Environmental Engineering, University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI.
(6)Center for Genomics and Bioinformatics, Indiana University, Boomington, IN.
(7)Civil and Environmental Engineering,, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 
Cambridge, MA.
(8)Department of Bacteriology, University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI.
(9)Department of Marine Sciences, University of Georgia, Athens, GA.
(10)Department of Biological Sciences, USC, Los Angeles.
(11)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of British Columbia, 
Canada.
(12)Centre for Ecogenomics, University of Queensland, Brisbane, Australia.
(13)Microbial Diversity Institute, Yale University, New Haven, CT.
(14)J.Craig Venter Institute, Rockeville, MD.
(15)New England Biolabs, Ipswich, MA.
(16)Bigelow Lab for Ocean Science, East Boothbay, MA.

The Prokaryotic Super Program Advisory Committee met on March 27, 2013 for their 
annual review the Prokaryotic Super Program at the DOE Joint Genome Institute. 
As is the case with any site visit or program review, the objective is to 
evaluate progress in meeting organizational objectives, provide feedback to from 
the user-community and to assist the JGI in formulating plans for the coming 
year. The advisors want to commend the JGI for its central role in developing 
new technologies and capabilities, and for catalyzing the formation of new 
collaborative user communities. Highlights of the post-meeting exchanges among 
the advisors focused on the importance of programmatic initiatives including: • 
GEBA, which serves as a phylogenetic "base-map" on which our knowledge of 
functional diversity can be layered. • FEBA, which promises to provide new 
insights into the physiological capabilities of prokaryotes under highly 
standardized conditions. • Single-cell genomics technology, which is seen to 
significantly enhance our ability to interpret genomic and metagenomic data and 
broaden the scope of the GEBA program to encompass at least a part of the 
microbial "dark-matter". • IMG, which is seen to play a central role in JGI 
programs and is viewed as a strategically important asset in the JGI portfolio. 
On this latter point, the committee encourages the formation of a strategic 
relationship between IMG and the Kbase to ensure that the intelligence, deep 
knowledge and experience captured in the former is not lost. The committee 
strongly urges the DOE to continue its support for maintaining this critical 
resource.

DOI: 10.4056/sigs.4638348
PMCID: PMC3910701
PMID: 24501639


1572. Med Image Comput Comput Assist Interv. 2013;16(Pt 1):655-62. doi: 
10.1007/978-3-642-40811-3_82.

Voxelwise spectral diffusional connectivity and its applications to Alzheimer's 
disease and intelligence prediction.

Li J(1), Jin Y(2), Shi Y(2), Dinov ID(2), Wang DJ(3), Toga AW(2), Thompson 
PM(2).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Neuro Imaging, UCLA School of Medicine, Los Angeles, CA 90095, 
USA. jli@loni.ucla.edu
(2)Laboratory of Neuro Imaging, UCLA School of Medicine, Los Angeles, CA 90095, 
USA.
(3)Brain Mapping Center UCLA School of Medicine, Los Angeles, CA 90095, USA.

Human brain connectivity can be studied using graph theory. Many connectivity 
studies parcellate the brain into regions and count fibres extracted between 
them. The resulting network analyses require validation of the tractography, as 
well as region and parameter selection. Here we investigate whole brain 
connectivity from a different perspective. We propose a mathematical formulation 
based on studying the eigenvalues of the Laplacian matrix of the diffusion 
tensor field at the voxel level. This voxelwise matrix has over a million 
parameters, but we derive the Kirchhoff complexity and eigen-spectrum through 
elegant mathematical theorems, without heavy computation. We use these novel 
measures to accurately estimate the voxelwise connectivity in multiple 
biomedical applications such as Alzheimer's disease and intelligence prediction.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-40811-3_82
PMCID: PMC4041690
PMID: 24505723 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1573. J Res Med Sci. 2013 Nov;18(11):998-1003.

Evidence based administration of risperidone and paliperidone for the treating 
conduct disorder.

Ghanizadeh A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Research Center for Psychiatry and Behavioral 
Sciences, School of Medicine, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, 
Iran.

BACKGROUND: This study evaluates the evidence-based administration of 
risperidone and paliperidone for the treating children and adolescents with 
conduct disorder (CD).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A review of the current literature from clinical trials 
that investigated the efficacy of risperidone and paliperidone on CD considering 
the inclusion criteria and search strategies was performed by a search of PubMed 
and Google Scholar databases.
RESULTS: Out of 53 titles, 31 were irrelevant. The abstract of 22 potentially 
related articles were studied. Only six articles reported the results of 
clinical trial. However, one of them reported the effect of risperidone on 
conduct behaviors in autistic disorders. One study was a re-analysis of two 
previous studies, one study reported the effects of maintenance versus 
withdrawal of risperidone treatment and two studies included children with 
sub-average intelligence. Headache, somnolence and increased appetite are among 
the most common reported adverse effects. No study examined the effect of 
paliperidone on CD was found.
CONCLUSION: Current literature suggests that risperidone could be effective for 
treating some conduct behaviors in children and adolescents. The effect of 
risperidone on CD is not a well-researched area. There is no well-controlled 
evidence based reports about the safety and efficacy of risperidone for the 
treatment of CD. Further trials should examine the efficacy of these medications 
on CD rather than conduct behaviors or disruptive behavior disorders.

PMCID: PMC3906794
PMID: 24523788

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None declared.


1574. Forensic Sci Int Genet. 2014 Mar;9:150-61. doi: 10.1016/j.fsigen.2013.12.006. 
Epub 2013 Dec 27.

Developmental validation of the HIrisPlex system: DNA-based eye and hair colour 
prediction for forensic and anthropological usage.

Walsh S(1), Chaitanya L(1), Clarisse L(2), Wirken L(3), Draus-Barini J(4), 
Kovatsi L(5), Maeda H(6), Ishikawa T(7), Sijen T(2), de Knijff P(3), Branicki 
W(8), Liu F(1), Kayser M(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Forensic Molecular Biology, Erasmus MC University Medical 
Centre Rotterdam, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(2)Department of Human Biological Traces, Netherlands Forensic Institute, The 
Hague, The Netherlands.
(3)Forensic Laboratory for DNA Research, Department of Human Genetics, Leiden 
University Medical Center, Leiden, The Netherlands.
(4)Section of Forensic Genetics, Institute of Forensic Research, Kraków, Poland.
(5)Laboratory of Forensic Medicine & Toxicology, School of Medicine, Aristotle 
University of Thessaloniki, Thessaloniki, Greece.
(6)Department of Legal Medicine, Osaka City University, Medical School, Osaka, 
Japan.
(7)Department of Legal Medicine, Osaka City University, Medical School, Osaka, 
Japan; Division of Legal Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Tottori University, 86 
Nichicho Yonago, Japan.
(8)Section of Forensic Genetics, Institute of Forensic Research, Kraków, Poland; 
Department of Genetics and Evolution, Institute of Zoology, Jagiellonian 
University, Kraków, Poland.
(9)Department of Forensic Molecular Biology, Erasmus MC University Medical 
Centre Rotterdam, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. Electronic address: 
m.kayser@erasmusmc.nl.

Forensic DNA Phenotyping or 'DNA intelligence' tools are expected to aid police 
investigations and find unknown individuals by providing information on 
externally visible characteristics of unknown suspects, perpetrators and missing 
persons from biological samples. This is especially useful in cases where 
conventional DNA profiling or other means remain non-informative. Recently, we 
introduced the HIrisPlex system, capable of predicting both eye and hair colour 
from DNA. In the present developmental validation study, we demonstrate that the 
HIrisPlex assay performs in full agreement with the Scientific Working Group on 
DNA Analysis Methods (SWGDAM) guidelines providing an essential prerequisite for 
future HIrisPlex applications to forensic casework. The HIrisPlex assay produces 
complete profiles down to only 63 pg of DNA. Species testing revealed human 
specificity for a complete HIrisPlex profile, while only non-human primates 
showed the closest full profile at 20 out of the 24 DNA markers, in all animals 
tested. Rigorous testing of simulated forensic casework samples such as blood, 
semen, saliva stains, hairs with roots as well as extremely low quantity touch 
(trace) DNA samples, produced complete profiles in 88% of cases. Concordance 
testing performed between five independent forensic laboratories displayed 
consistent reproducible results on varying types of DNA samples. Due to its 
design, the assay caters for degraded samples, underlined here by results from 
artificially degraded DNA and from simulated casework samples of degraded DNA. 
This aspect was also demonstrated previously on DNA samples from human remains 
up to several hundreds of years old. With this paper, we also introduce enhanced 
eye and hair colour prediction models based on enlarged underlying databases of 
HIrisPlex genotypes and eye/hair colour phenotypes (eye colour: N = 9188 and 
hair colour: N = 1601). Furthermore, we present an online web-based system for 
individual eye and hair colour prediction from full and partial HIrisPlex DNA 
profiles. By demonstrating that the HIrisPlex assay is fully compatible with the 
SWGDAM guidelines, we provide the first forensically validated DNA test system 
for parallel eye and hair colour prediction now available to forensic 
laboratories for immediate casework application, including missing person cases. 
Given the robustness and sensitivity described here and in previous work, the 
HIrisPlex system is also suitable for analysing old and ancient DNA in 
anthropological and evolutionary studies.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fsigen.2013.12.006
PMID: 24528593 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1575. J Child Adolesc Behav. 2013 Apr 29;1(2):1000107. doi: 10.4172/2375-4494.1000107.

Direct and Indirect Effects of Brain Volume, Socioeconomic Status and Family 
Stress on Child IQ.

Marcus Jenkins JV(1), Woolley DP(2), Hooper SR(3), De Bellis MD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Policy, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, 
USA.
(2)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Science, Duke University, USA.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, USA.

11 BACKGROUND: A large literature documents the detrimental effects of 
socioeconomic disparities on intelligence and neuropsychological development. 
Researchers typically measure environmental factors such as socioeconomic status 
(SES), using income, parent's occupation and education. However, SES is more 
complex, and this complexity may influence neuropsychological outcomes.
12 METHODS: This studyused principal components analysis to reduce 14 SES and 28 
family stress indicators into their core dimensions (e.g. community and 
educational capital, financial resources, marital conflict). Core dimensions 
were used in path analyses to examine their relationships with parent IQ and 
cerebral volume (white matter, grey matter and total brain volume), to predict 
child IQ in a sample of typically developing children.
13 RESULTS: Parent IQ affected child IQ directly and indirectly through 
community and educational capital, demonstrating how environmental factors 
interact with familial factors in neuro-development. There were no intervening 
effects of cerebral white matter, grey matter, or total brain volume.
14 CONCLUSIONS: Findings may suggest that improving community resources can 
foster the intellectual development of children.

DOI: 10.4172/2375-4494.1000107
PMCID: PMC3923434
PMID: 24533427


1576. J Int Bioethique. 2013 Dec;24(4):41-8, 178-9. doi: 10.3917/jib.243.0039.

Brain, mind, body and society: autonomous system in robotics.

Shimoda M(1).

Author information:
(1)Kyoto Women's University, Japan. shimodamotomu@gmail.com

In this paper I examine the issues related to the robot with mind. To create a 
robot with mind aims to recreate neuro function by engineering. The robot with 
mind is expected not only to process external information by the built-in 
program and behave accordingly, but also to gain the consciousness activity 
responding multiple conditions and flexible and interactive communication skills 
coping with unknown situation. That prospect is based on the development of 
artificial intelligence in which self-organizing and self-emergent functions 
have been available in recent years. To date, controllable aspects in robotics 
have been restricted to data making and programming of cognitive abilities, 
while consciousness activities and communication skills have been regarded as 
uncontrollable aspects due to their contingency and uncertainty. However, some 
researchers of robotics claim that every activity of the mind can be recreated 
by engineering and is therefore controllable. Based on the development of the 
cognitive abilities of children and the findings of neuroscience, researchers 
have attempted to produce the latest artificial intelligence with autonomous 
learning systems. I conclude that controllability is inconsistent with autonomy 
in the genuine sense and autonomous robots recreated by engineering cannot be 
autonomous partners of humans.

DOI: 10.3917/jib.243.0039
PMID: 24558734 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1577. J Int Bioethique. 2013 Dec;24(4):49-58, 179-80. doi: 10.3917/jib.243.0049.

Robot companions and ethics a pragmatic approach of ethical design.

Cornet G(1).

Author information:
(1)SFTAG and ISG Research Associations. gerard.cornet2@sfr.fr

From his experience as ethical expert for two Robot Companion prototype projects 
aiming at empowering older MCI persons to remain at home and to support their 
family carers, Gerard Cornet, Gerontologist, review the ethical rules, 
principles and pragmatic approaches in different cultures. The ethical process 
of these two funded projects, one European, Companionable (FP7 e-inclusion 
call1), the other French, Quo vadis (ANR tecsan) are described from the 
inclusion of the targeted end users in the process, to the assessment and 
ranking of their main needs and whishes to design the specifications, test the 
performance expected. Obstacles to turn round and limits for risks evaluation 
(directs or implicit), acceptability, utility, respect of intimacy and dignity, 
and balance with freedom and security and frontiers to artificial intelligence 
are discussed As quoted in the discussion with the French and Japanese experts 
attending the Toulouse Robotics and medicine symposium (March 26th 2011), the 
need of a new ethical approach, going further the present ethical rules is 
needed for the design and social status of ethical robots, having capacity cas 
factor of progress and global quality of innovation design in an ageing society.

DOI: 10.3917/jib.243.0049
PMID: 24558735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1578. J Int Bioethique. 2013 Dec;24(4):85-98, 182. doi: 10.3917/jib.243.0083.

[Do androids need a legal status?].

[Article in French]

Bioy X(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Toulouse 1 Capitole, Institut Maurice Hauriou. 
Xavier.Bioy@ut.capitole.fr

The existence of the subject of law is not an automatic allocation when the will 
and the autonomy are awarded, but a tool conferred by the legal system in order 
to protect the humanity (based on the presupposition of a consciousness that the 
human being remains to be the only one to have and to suppose at the others). He 
cannot involve thus of reducing the question of the status of the android to the 
simple recognition of an intelligence, besides artificial, but of denying the 
reasoning by analogy any real impact for the existence of a legal status. If 
specific status there would be, it will be only because the human being will 
have decided on it for his own legally protected interest. The status of the 
android will be metonymical, by inclusion in that of the human person, or will 
not be.

DOI: 10.3917/jib.243.0083
PMID: 24558738 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1579. J Int Bioethique. 2013 Dec;24(4):125-33, 184. doi: 10.3917/jib.243.0125.

[Robots and intellectual property].

[Article in French]

Larrieu J(1).

Author information:
(1)Université Toulouse 1 Capitole, CDA.

This topic is part of the global issue concerning the necessity to adapt 
intellectual property law to constant changes in technology. The relationship 
between robots and IP is dual. On one hand, the robots may be regarded as 
objects of intellectual property. A robot, like any new machine, could qualify 
for a protection by a patent. A copyright may protect its appearance if it is 
original. Its memory, like a database, could be covered by a sui generis right. 
On the other hand, the question of the protection of the outputs of the robot 
must be raised. The robots, as the physical embodiment of artificial 
intelligence, are becoming more and more autonomous. Robot-generated works 
include less and less human inputs. Are these objects created or invented by a 
robot copyrightable or patentable? To whom the ownership of these IP rights will 
be allocated? To the person who manufactured the machine ? To the user of the 
robot? To the robot itself? All these questions are worth discussing.

DOI: 10.3917/jib.243.0125
PMID: 24558740 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1580. Cortex. 2014 Apr;53(100):34-44. doi: 10.1016/j.cortex.2013.12.012. Epub 2013 Dec 
31.

Quantitative multi-modal MRI of the Hippocampus and cognitive ability in 
community-dwelling older subjects.

Aribisala BS(1), Royle NA(2), Maniega SM(2), Valdés Hernández MC(2), Murray 
C(3), Penke L(4), Gow A(5), Starr JM(6), Bastin ME(2), Deary IJ(3), Wardlaw 
JM(7).

Author information:
(1)Brain Research Imaging Centre, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK; Centre 
for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, University of Edinburgh, 
Edinburgh, UK; Scottish Imaging Network, A Platform for Scientific Excellence 
(SINAPSE), Edinburgh, UK; Department of Computer Science, Lagos State 
University, Lagos, Nigeria.
(2)Brain Research Imaging Centre, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK; Centre 
for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, University of Edinburgh, 
Edinburgh, UK; Scottish Imaging Network, A Platform for Scientific Excellence 
(SINAPSE), Edinburgh, UK.
(3)Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, University of 
Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK; Department of Psychology, University of Edinburgh, 
Edinburgh, UK.
(4)Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, University of 
Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK; Scottish Imaging Network, A Platform for Scientific 
Excellence (SINAPSE), Edinburgh, UK; Institute of Psychology, Georg August 
University Göttingen, Göttingen, Germany.
(5)Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, University of 
Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK; Psychology, School of Life Sciences, Herriot-Watt 
University, Edinburgh, UK.
(6)Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, University of 
Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK; Geriatric Medicine Unit, University of Edinburgh, 
Edinburgh, UK.
(7)Brain Research Imaging Centre, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK; Centre 
for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, University of Edinburgh, 
Edinburgh, UK; Scottish Imaging Network, A Platform for Scientific Excellence 
(SINAPSE), Edinburgh, UK. Electronic address: joanna.wardlaw@ed.ac.uk.

Hippocampal structural integrity is commonly quantified using volumetric 
measurements derived from brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Previously 
reported associations with cognitive decline have not been consistent. We 
investigate hippocampal integrity using quantitative MRI techniques and its 
association with cognitive abilities in older age. Participants from the Lothian 
Birth Cohort 1936 underwent brain MRI at mean age 73 years. Longitudinal 
relaxation time (T1), magnetization transfer ratio (MTR), fractional anisotropy 
(FA) and mean diffusivity (MD) were measured in the hippocampus. General factors 
of fluid-type intelligence (g), cognitive processing speed (speed) and memory 
were obtained at age 73 years, as well as childhood IQ test results at age 11 
years. Amongst 565 older adults, multivariate linear regression showed that, 
after correcting for ICV, gender and age 11 IQ, larger left hippocampal volume 
was significantly associated with better memory ability (β = .11, p = .003), but 
not with speed or g. Using quantitative MRI and after correcting for multiple 
testing, higher T1 and MD were significantly associated with lower scores of g 
(β range = -.11 to -.14, p < .001), speed (β range = -.15 to -.20, p < .001) and 
memory (β range = -.10 to -.12, p < .001). Higher MTR and FA in the hippocampus 
were also significantly associated with higher scores of g (β range = .17 to 
.18, p < .0001) and speed (β range = .10 to .15, p < .0001), but not memory. 
Quantitative multi-modal MRI assessments were more sensitive at detecting 
cognition-hippocampal integrity associations than volumetric measurements, 
resulting in stronger associations between MRI biomarkers and age-related 
cognition changes.

Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cortex.2013.12.012
PMCID: PMC3979658
PMID: 24561387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1581. Intelligence. 2013 Sep;41(5):560-565. doi: 10.1016/j.intell.2013.07.011.

Intelligence indexes generalist genes for cognitive abilities.

Trzaskowski M(1), Shakeshaft NG(1), Plomin R(1).

Author information:
(1)King's College London, Institute of Psychiatry, MRC Social, Genetic and 
Developmental Psychiatry Centre, London, England SE5 8AF, United Kingdom.

Twin research has supported the concept of intelligence (general cognitive 
ability, g) by showing that genetic correlations between diverse tests of verbal 
and nonverbal cognitive abilities are greater than 0.50. That is, most of the 
genes that affect cognitive abilities are highly pleiotropic in the sense that 
genes that affect one cognitive ability affect all cognitive abilities. The 
impact of this finding may have been blunted because it depends on the validity 
of the twin method. Although the assumptions of the twin method have survived 
indirect tests, it is now possible to test findings from the twin method 
directly using DNA alone in samples of unrelated individuals, without the 
assumptions of the twin method. We applied this DNA method, implemented in a 
software package called Genome-wide Complex Trait Analysis (GCTA), to estimate 
genetic variance and covariance for two verbal tests and two nonverbal tests 
using 1.7 million DNA markers genotyped on 2500 unrelated children at age 12; 
1900 children also had cognitive data and DNA at age 7. Because each of these 
individuals is one member of a twin pair, we were able to compare GCTA estimates 
directly to twin study estimates using the same measures in the same sample. At 
age 12, GCTA confirmed the results of twin research in showing substantial 
genetic covariance between verbal and nonverbal composites. The GCTA genetic 
correlation at age 12 was 1.0 (SE = 0.32), not significantly different from the 
twin study estimate of 0.60 (SE = 0.09). At age 7, the genetic correlations were 
0.31 (SE =0.32) from GCTA and 0.71 (SE = 0.15).from twin analysis. The results 
from the larger sample and stronger measures at age 12 confirm the twin study 
results that the genetic architecture of intelligence is driven by pleiotropic 
effects on diverse cognitive abilities. However, the results at age 7 and the 
large standard errors of GCTA bivariate genetic correlations suggest the need 
for further research with larger samples.

DOI: 10.1016/j.intell.2013.07.011
PMCID: PMC3928847
PMID: 24563565


1582. BMC Med Genomics. 2013;6 Suppl 3(Suppl 3):S7. doi: 10.1186/1755-8794-6-S3-S7. 
Epub 2013 Nov 11.

A data-driven acute inflammation therapy.

Radosavljevic V, Ristovski K, Obradovic Z.

Acute inflammation is a severe medical condition defined as an inflammatory 
response of the body to an infection. Its rapid progression requires quick and 
accurate decisions from clinicians. Inadequate and delayed decisions makes acute 
inflammation the 10th leading cause of death overall in United States with the 
estimated cost of treatment about $17 billion annually. However, despite the 
need, there are limited number of methods that could assist clinicians to 
determine optimal therapies for acute inflammation. We developed a data-driven 
method for suggesting optimal therapy by using machine learning model that is 
learned on historical patients' behaviors. To reduce both the risk of failure 
and the expense for clinical trials, our method is evaluated on a virtual 
patients generated by a mathematical model that emulates inflammatory response. 
In conducted experiments, acute inflammation was handled with two complimentary 
pro- and anti-inflammatory medications which adequate timing and doses are 
crucial for the successful outcome. Our experiments show that the dosage regimen 
assigned with our data-driven method significantly improves the percentage of 
healthy patients when compared to results by other methods used in clinical 
practice and found in literature. Our method saved 88% of patients that would 
otherwise die within a week, while the best method found in literature saved 
only 73% of patients. At the same time, our method used lower doses of 
medications than alternatives. In addition, our method achieved better results 
than alternatives when only incomplete or noisy measurements were available over 
time as well as it was less affected by therapy delay. The presented results 
provide strong evidence that models from the artificial intelligence community 
have a potential for development of personalized treatment strategies for acute 
inflammation.

DOI: 10.1186/1755-8794-6-S3-S7
PMCID: PMC3980972
PMID: 24565439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1583. J Clin Pediatr Dent. 2013 Fall;38(1):61-6. doi: 
10.17796/jcpd.38.1.k754h164m3210764.

Emotional intelligence subscales: are they correlated with child anxiety and 
behavior in the dental setting?

Aminabadi NA(1), Adhami ZE(2), Oskouei SG(3), Najafpour E(2), Jamali Z(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Dentistry, School of Dentistry, Tabriz University of 
Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran. aslaminabadi@gmail.com
(2)Department of Pediatric Dentistry, School of Dentistry, Tabriz University of 
Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran.
(3)School of Dentistry, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran.
(4)Department of Oral Medicine, School of Dentistry, Tabriz University of 
Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran.

OBJECTIVES: The present study aimed at evaluating the correlation between 
emotional intelligence subscales and childs anxiety and behavior in the dental 
setting.
STUDY DESIGN: The study included 123 children aged 7-12 years, who were 
scheduled to attend two consecutive sessions. In the first session, the Bar-On 
Emotional Quotient Inventory: Youth Version (Bar-on EQ-I: YV) was administered 
to participants. The anxiety and behavior in children was evaluated during 
similar dental procedures in the second session using the Clinical Anxiety 
Rating Scale and the Frankl scale, respectively.
RESULTS: 23 children were eliminated from the study, leaving 100 participants 
(47 boys and 53 girls) with a mean age of 9.32 +/- 1.59 years for study. There 
were statistically significant positive correlations between Frankl score and EQ 
total score (p < 0.001), interpersonal scale (p < 0.001), intrapersonal scale (p 
< 0.001), stress management (p = 0.03) and adaptability scale (p < 0.001). 
Significant negative correlations were found between anxiety score and, EQ total 
score (p < 0.001), interpersonal scale (p < 0.001), intrapersonal scale (p < 
0.001), and adaptability scale (p < 0.001). Anxiety and stress management were 
not correlated (p = 0.16). Total EQ and EQ subscales can predict significance 
variance of Frankl score (p < 0.05) and anxiety score (p < 0.05) without 
confounding effect of age and sex (p > 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: The results provide evidence that children with higher total EQ as 
well as higher scores of intrapersonal, interpersonal, adaptability and stress 
management scales can generally be flexible and effective in coping in the 
dental setting. Higher score in stress management subscale seems to be related 
to better control over affective information including anxiety compared with 
other subscales in stressful situations. Overall, they behave and cooperate 
better than children with lower scores.

DOI: 10.17796/jcpd.38.1.k754h164m3210764
PMID: 24579285 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1584. Am J Med Genet B Neuropsychiatr Genet. 2013 Dec;162B(8):889-97. doi: 
10.1002/ajmg.b.32199. Epub 2013 Sep 20.

Genome-wide copy number scan identifies disruption of PCDH11X in developmental 
dyslexia.

Veerappa AM(1), Saldanha M, Padakannaya P, Ramachandra NB.

Author information:
(1)Genomics Laboratory, Department of Studies in Zoology, University of Mysore, 
Manasagangotri, Mysore, Karnataka, India.

Developmental dyslexia (DD) is a complex heritable disorder with unexpected 
difficulty in learning to read and spell despite adequate intelligence, 
education, environment, and normal senses. We performed a whole genome copy 
number variations (CNV) scan on 11 dyslexic families consisting of 14 dyslexic 
subjects and 24 non dyslexic members using 1.8 million combined SNP and CNV 
markers. We found CNVs affecting protocadherin genes in six dyslexics from three 
families, while none among the non-dyslexic control members showed any CNV in 
protocadherins. We identified duplications in five cases and a deletion in one 
case in Xq21.3 region bearing PCDH11X. Unequal recombination between the 
X-transposed region (XTR) of Yp11.2 and the X chromosome might be causing these 
structural changes. PCDH11X, expressed in brain is implicated in cell-cell 
communication, verbal ability, cerebral asymmetry, and dendritic synaptic 
plasticity, may be regarded as a new candidate gene for dyslexia.

© 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.b.32199
PMID: 24591081 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1585. IEEE J Biomed Health Inform. 2013 May;17(3):579-90. doi: 
10.1109/jbhi.2012.2234129.

A survey on ambient-assisted living tools for older adults.

Rashidi P, Mihailidis A.

In recent years, we have witnessed a rapid surge in assisted living technologies 
due to a rapidly aging society. The aging population, the increasing cost of 
formal health care, the caregiver burden, and the importance that the 
individuals place on living independently, all motivate development of 
innovative-assisted living technologies for safe and independent aging. In this 
survey, we will summarize the emergence of 'ambient-assisted living" (AAL) tools 
for older adults based on ambient intelligence paradigm. We will summarize the 
state-of-the-art AAL technologies, tools, and techniques, and we will look at 
current and future challenges.

DOI: 10.1109/jbhi.2012.2234129
PMID: 24592460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1586. AANA J. 2013 Dec;81(6):465-72.

Emotional intelligence as a noncognitive factor in student registered nurse 
anesthetists.

Collins S(1).

Author information:
(1)Western Carolina University Nurse Anesthesia and DNP Programs, Asheville, NC, 
USA. shawncollins@wcu.edu

Current nurse anesthesia program admissions requirements usually focus on high 
grade point averages, Graduate Record Examination scores, number of years of 
acute care experience, and a personal interview to assist in predicting those 
who will succeed in these intensive academic and clinical programs. Some people 
believe these criteria may not be sufficient in predicting success and have 
suggested that the use of noncognitive criteria such as emotional intelligence 
measurements may be helpful. The purpose of this cross-sectional correlational 
study was to explore the relationship between emotional intelligence and 
academic factors of student registered nurse anesthetists at 3 points in a 
program--matriculation, at 1 year of study, and in the last semester of 
study--and the relationship of these to clinical scores and National 
Certification Examination scores. An ex post facto cross-sectional study design 
was used to gather data at 3 critical times in nurse anesthesia programs to 
explore the relationships between emotional intelligence scores, preadmission 
demographics, clinical scores, and National Certification Examination scores. 
The online Mayer-Salovey-Caruso Emotional Intelligence Test instrument provided 
15 individual emotional intelligence scores for each subject. The statistical 
relationship between variables was examined.

PMID: 24597009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1587. J Law Med. 2013 Dec;21(2):265-72.

Consent, competence and lies to children: veracity in paediatric care.

McMurdo M(1), Gillett G(2).

Author information:
(1)Otago University, New Zealand.
(2)Dunedin Hospital and Otago Bioethics Centre, University of Otago Medical 
School, New Zealand.

Principles of consent and autonomy based on adult-oriented bioethics must be 
modified to take account of the cognitive development occurring in childhood. 
That development differentially affects executive and more theoretical 
intelligence and is greatly influenced by experience. Thus, a judgment about a 
matter of degree is required by clinicians dealing with children, particularly 
when children diverge from the choices that would be endorsed by the adults and 
clinicians surrounding them. If we accept that partnership and the evolution of 
consent away from a formal procedure are both indicative of current ethical and 
medico-legal thinking, then it follows that the involvement of a child in an 
open-ended conversation taking account of the realistic prospects and the 
subjective experiences associated with treatment is the right way to proceed and 
that it should reflect the ability of the child to understand what is at stake 
and how it will affect her or him. That carries implications for the child's 
access to adequate information about the condition, the treatment, and the 
decisions being made.

PMID: 24597373 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1588. Psychol Rep. 2013 Oct;113(2):519-24. doi: 10.2466/04.16.49.PR0.113x13z1.

National intelligence estimates and the Failed State Index.

Voracek M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Basic Psychological Research and Research Methods, School of 
Psychology, University of Vienna, Liebiggasse 5, Room 03-46, A-1010 Vienna, 
Austria. martin.voracek@univie.ac.at

Across 177 countries around the world, the Failed State Index, a measure of 
state vulnerability, was reliably negatively associated with the estimates of 
national intelligence. Psychometric analysis of the Failed State Index, 
compounded of 12 social, economic, and political indicators, suggested factorial 
unidimensionality of this index. The observed correspondence of higher national 
intelligence figures to lower state vulnerability might arise through these two 
macro-level variables possibly being proxies of even more pervasive historical 
and societal background variables that affect both.

DOI: 10.2466/04.16.49.PR0.113x13z1
PMID: 24597444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1589. Pediatr Neurol. 2014 Apr;50(4):363-7. doi: 10.1016/j.pediatrneurol.2013.12.006. 
Epub 2013 Dec 12.

Long-term neurocognitive outcome and quality of life in pediatric acute 
disseminated encephalomyelitis.

Suppiej A(1), Cainelli E(2), Casara G(3), Cappellari A(3), Nosadini M(3), 
Sartori S(3).

Author information:
(1)Child Neurology and Clinical Neurophysiology, Paediatric University Hospital, 
Padua, Italy. Electronic address: suppiej@pediatria.unipd.it.
(2)Child Neurology and Clinical Neurophysiology, Paediatric University Hospital, 
Padua, Italy; Lifespan Cognitive Neuroscience Laboratory, Department of General 
Psychology, University of Padua, Padua, Italy.
(3)Child Neurology and Clinical Neurophysiology, Paediatric University Hospital, 
Padua, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Acute disseminated encephalomyelitis is an 
inflammatory-demyelinating disorder of the central nervous system usually with a 
monophasic course and a favorable neurological outcome. Long-term neurocognitive 
sequelae and quality of life have not yet been fully investigated.
AIM: To examine neurocognitive outcome and quality of life in pediatric 
monophasic acute disseminated encephalomyelitis.
METHODS: Of the 36 patients diagnosed with acute disseminated encephalomyelitis 
at our institution, six were lost to follow-up and eight relapsed (two with 
multiphasic forms and six with multiple sclerosis). The outcome of the 22 
remaining patients was evaluated using four subscales of the Wechsler 
Intelligence Scales for estimation of IQ, a battery of neuropsychological tests, 
and semistructured and PedsQL questionnaires for quality of life. The effect of 
age at onset, neuroradiological recovery, and time elapsed from the acute event 
on outcome was also investigated.
RESULTS: Estimated IQ, neuropsychological mean group scores, and quality of life 
at follow-up were within the normal range, but 23% of the patients had 
pathological scores in various neuropsychological functions, among which 
attention was the most clearly affected. The neuroradiological recovery was not 
correlated with the result of the neuropsychological tests. Age at onset 
correlated with linguistic skills, whereas the time elapsed from the acute event 
had a significant effect on attention tasks: scores were worse in the group of 
patients with a follow-up shorter than 7 years.
CONCLUSION: Our results suggest that pediatric monophasic acute disseminated 
encephalomyelitis has a favorable neurocognitive outcome. Patients with longer 
follow-up had a better outcome, suggesting a neurocognitive course that is 
different from that of multiple sclerosis and a potential for long-term recovery 
of affected functions.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pediatrneurol.2013.12.006
PMID: 24630282 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1590. Sci Justice. 2014 Mar;54(2):146-53. doi: 10.1016/j.scijus.2013.09.004. Epub 2013 
Sep 29.

A collaborative approach for incorporating forensic case data into crime 
investigation using criminal intelligence analysis and visualisation.

Rossy Q(1), Ribaux O(2).

Author information:
(1)Institut de Police Scientifique, Université de Lausanne, Batochime, 1015 
Lausanne-Dorigny, Switzerland. Electronic address: quentin.rossy@unil.ch.
(2)Institut de Police Scientifique, Université de Lausanne, Batochime, 1015 
Lausanne-Dorigny, Switzerland.

There is an increasing awareness that the articulation of forensic science and 
criminal investigation is critical to the resolution of crimes. However, models 
and methods to support an effective collaboration between the partners are still 
poorly expressed or even lacking. Three propositions are borrowed from crime 
intelligence methods in order to bridge this gap: (a) the general intelligence 
process, (b) the analyses of investigative problems along principal 
perspectives: entities and their relationships, time and space, quantitative 
aspects and (c) visualisation methods as a mode of expression of a problem in 
these dimensions. Indeed, in a collaborative framework, different kinds of 
visualisations integrating forensic case data can play a central role for 
supporting decisions. Among them, link-charts are scrutinised for their 
abilities to structure and ease the analysis of a case by describing how 
relevant entities are connected. However, designing an informative chart that 
does not bias the reasoning process is not straightforward. Using visualisation 
as a catalyser for a collaborative approach integrating forensic data thus calls 
for better specifications.

© 2013.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scijus.2013.09.004
PMID: 24630325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1591. Niger Postgrad Med J. 2013 Dec;20(4):291-8.

Factors affecting interest in respiratory medicine as a subspecialty of choice: 
survey of internal medicine residents in Nigeria.

Desalu OO(1), Onyedum CC, Adeoti AO, Ozoh OB, Sogaolu O, Gunduri LB, Adekoya AO, 
Salami AK, Fawibe AE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine ,University of Ilorin Teaching Hospital ,Ilorin. 
Nigeria. femuy1967@yahoo.co.uk

AIMS AND OBJECTIVES: The objective of this study was to determine the factors 
that affect the interest in respiratory medicine (RM) as a subspecialty of 
choice among internal medicine residents in Nigeria.
SUBJECTS, MATERIALS AND METHODS: This was a cross-sectional study of 136 
internal medicine residents recruited from seven teaching hospitals from January 
2011 to June 2011. A semi-structured questionnaire that was self administered by 
residents was used to obtain socio-demographic information and factors affecting 
residents' interest in respiratory medicine.
RESULTS: Out of 136 residents that completed the study, 78 (57.4 %) were junior 
residents (PG year 1-3) and 58(42.6%) were senior residents (PG year >3). Thirty 
four (43.6%) junior residents and 21(36.2%) senior residents considered 
respiratory medicine as a sub-specialty of choice. Only 2(3.5%) of the senior 
residents were presently committed to RM. In the junior residents, interest in 
respiratory medicine was correlated with personal intelligence and ability 
(RR=2.58, ;95% confidence interval(CI): 1.16-7.07, p-0.01) , availability of 
respiratory physician (RR=2.42; 95% CI 1.07-7.63 ,p-0.02) and postgraduate 
examiners in RM in training institutions RR= (2.20; 95% CI 1.06-5.45,p-0.03), 
experience during rotation in medical school and residency (RR=2.11 ; 95% CI 
1.11-4.21,p-0.03) and future annual income (RR=2.04;C:I1.03-4.68,p-0.04). In the 
senior residents, interest in RM was correlated with the availability of 
postgraduate examiners in RM in training institutions (RR- 6.36; 95% CI 
1.16-66.80, P-<0.01), future opportunity for scholarships and travel grants (RR- 
4.23; 95% CI 1.19-25.92,p-< 0.01), personal intelligence and ability (RR= 3.41; 
95% CI.16-13.87,p-0.01) and prospect for rapid elevation in career (RR=2.92; 95% 
CI 1.03-11.91,p -0.04). Provisions of modern facilities in training 
institutions, mentoring by senior colleagues and promotion of subspecialty by 
respiratory physicians were rated by the senior residents as the most important 
ways of increasing interest in respiratory medicine and making it a specialty of 
choice.
CONCLUSION: The interest in respiratory medicine among internal medicine 
residents is low and decline as their level of training advances. The factors 
affecting the interest in respiratory medicine have been highlighted and the 
policy makers need to understand, and if possible modify these factors by 
formulating appropriate changes to our training programs so as to increase 
future numbers of respiratory physician.

PMID: 24633271 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1592. Iran J Psychiatry Behav Sci. 2013 Fall;7(2):35-43.

Effectiveness of EEG-Biofeedback on Attentiveness, Working Memory and 
Quantitative Electroencephalography on Reading Disorder.

Mosanezhad Jeddi E(1), Nazari MA(2).

Author information:
(1)Psychologist, PhD Student, Department of Psychology, School of Psychology, 
The University of Tabriz, Tabriz, Iran.
(2)Neuroscientist, Assistant Professor, Department of Psychology, School of 
Psychology,The University of Tabriz, Tabriz, Iran.

OBJECTIVE: Cognitive factors are the important correlates of reading disorder 
and their impairments are established in children with reading disorder. 
Neurofeedback as an intervention has been reported to be useful in improvement 
of cognitive deficits. The present study aimed to determine the effectiveness of 
this treatment on attentiveness and working memory and related 
electroencephalographic (EEG) changes in children with reading disorder.
METHODS: In this single subject study, six children with reading disorder aged 
8-10 years old completed twenty 30-minunt sessions of treatment. Continuous 
performance task, the digit span subscale of the 3(rd) edition of Wechsler 
Intelligence Scale for Children (WISC-III) and quantitative 
electroencephalography were used to evaluate the changes at pre and 
post-treatment. The data were evaluated by visual inspection of the graph, the 
mean percentage improvement and signal detection measures.
RESULTS: The results showed improvements in attention and working memory. 
Furthermore, EEG analysis did not show notable changes in the power of the 
targeted bands (delta, theta, and beta), rather the normalization of coherence 
was explicit in theta band at T3-T4, delta band at Cz-Fz, beta band at Cz-Fz, 
Cz-Pz and Cz-C4.
CONCLUSIONS: These significant changes in coherence are possible indications of 
the connectivity between frontal and posterior association and integration 
between sensory and motor areas that explain the improvements in attention and 
working memory.
DECLARATION OF INTEREST: None.

PMCID: PMC3939990
PMID: 24644508


1593. Pain Manag. 2013 Mar;3(2):119-22. doi: 10.2217/pmt.12.84.

α-1 antitrypsin and chronic fatigue syndrome: a case study from pathophysiology 
to clinical practice.

Alegre J(1), Camprubí S, García-Quintana A.

Author information:
(1)Chronic Fatigue Syndrome Unit, Hospital Universitari Vall d´Hebron, Passeig 
de Vall Hebron 119-129, 08035 Barcelona, Spain. jalegre@hebron.net.

SUMMARY 
BACKGROUND: Several lines of evidence support the involvement of inflammatory 
and immunologic abnormalities in chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS). Since recent 
studies have shown that α-1 antitrypsin (AAT) possesses anti-inflammatory 
properties, the potential therapeutic effect of AAT treatment on CFS has been 
investigated.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 49-year-old woman diagnosed with CFS was treated with 
intravenous infusions of a human plasma-derived AAT concentrate (60 mg/kg body 
weight weekly for 8 consecutive weeks). The patient's monocyte elastase, a 
regulator of inflammatory processes, was 1170 U/mg. At completion of treatment, 
improvement in maximal workload was observed (54.0-71.7% of predicted). 
Additionally, amelioration in working memory (scores: 83-94) and perceptual 
organization (scores: 75-83) were detected on the Wechsler Adult Intelligence 
Scale-III test. Monocyte elastase decreased to a normal range (<150 U/mg). 
Improvement in functional capacity allowed the patient to work in part-time 
employment.
CONCLUSION: These findings suggest a possible role for AAT in the treatment of 
CFS.

DOI: 10.2217/pmt.12.84
PMID: 24645995


1594. J Epilepsy Res. 2013 Jun 30;3(1):1-6. doi: 10.14581/jer.13001. eCollection 2013 
Jun.

Benign childhood epilepsy with centrotemporal spikes: to treat or not to treat.

Kwon S(1), Hwang TG(2), Lee J(3), Kim DK(4), Seo HE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Kyungpook National University Hospital, Kyungpook 
National University School of Medicine, Daegu;
(2)Department of Pediatrics, Inje University Haeundae Paik Hospital, Busan;
(3)Department of Pediatrics, Samsung Changwon Hospital, Sungkyunkwan University 
School of Medicine, Changwon;
(4)Department of Pediatrics, Dongguk University College of Medicine, Gyeongju, 
Korea.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to evaluate the benefits and 
risks of oxcarbazepine (OXC) monotherapy in children with newly diagnosed, 
benign partial epilepsy based on clinico-electrical and neuropsychological 
evaluation over time.
METHODS: The study was open label, prospective, multicenter based. A total of 39 
children with BRE were involved in the study. They were randomized into two 
groups (T; treatment with OXC, NT; No treatment) to compare the effectiveness of 
OXC treatment. All children underwent EEGs with quantification and a 
comprehensive battery of neuropsychological tests at the first visit and follow 
up visit at 6 months.
RESULTS: The subjects made a slight progress in general intelligence measures 
over time in both groups (95.4±10.5 to 97.6±7.5 for T, 107.6±17.3 to 111.4±18.6 
for NT). Memory and frontal executive functions did not change over time in both 
groups in terms of the memory quotient (MQ) (106.7±27.5 to 103.4± 19.3 for T, 
105.8±13.2 to 104.9±17.2 for NT) and executive intelligence quotient (EIQ) 
(114.7±18.3 to 108.9±12.5 for T, 100.6±25.1 to 101.2±13.9 for NT). However, when 
sub-domain scores were compared between the two groups, the treatment group got 
significantly worse over time in the verbal fluency test (11.5±3.8 to 8.0±1.4 
for T, 10.3±3.9 to 11.5±2.1 for NT; p<0.05) and level 1 of Stroop test (9.3±3.0 
to 7.5±1.3 for T, 11.0±3.7 to 11.2±2.6 for NT; p<0.05). The subjects might have 
cognitive and behavioral difficulties in association with frontal lobe 
dysfunctions, but these difficulties did not seem to be dependent on the number 
of seizures, the abundance of subclinical epileptiform discharges, or the 
anti-epileptic treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: We think that OXC monotherapy is effective for children with BRE, 
but is to be given to the selected patients such as patients with prolonged or 
frequent seizures. However, further studies are needed to have a better 
understanding in this matter.

DOI: 10.14581/jer.13001
PMCID: PMC3957315
PMID: 24649464


1595. Nurs J India. 2013 May-Jun;104(3):134-7.

Effect of structured teaching programme on the knowledge and opinion of nursing 
students towards prevention of mental retardation.

Moharana K.

Mental retardation is a condition of arrested or incomplete development of mind 
which is characterised by impairment of skills manifested during the 
developmental period that contribute to the level of intelligence that is 
cognitive, language, motor and social abilities (WHO). A quasi experimental 
study was conducted at College of Nursing, NIMHANS, Bangalore with the objective 
to assess the effectiveness of structured teaching programme on the level of 
knowledge & opinion of nursing students towards primary prevention of mental 
retardation. The 44, 3rd yr BSc nursing students were selected by purposive 
sampling design. Self administered knowledge questionnaire and opinion scale 
were used as tools. The knowledge questionnaire consisted of four domains: 
concept, prenatal, intranatal, postnatal causes and prevention of mental 
retardation. Opinion scale was prepared as statement. The scale was divided into 
two domains positive and negatively worded. The interpretation was: higher the 
score, higher the positive opinion. The score ranging from 30-75 were negative, 
76-90 neutral and 91-150 as positive opinion. This study revealed that knowledge 
score of the subjects were significantly increased at p-value 0.001. Opinion 
score, analysed using McNamer's chi-square test, indicated that a significant 
change occurred after structured teaching programme. It is concluded that 
structured teaching programme seems to be highly effective in improving 
knowledge and opinion towards primary prevention of mental disorders.

PMID: 24683760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1596. Psychol Rep. 2013 Dec;113(3):823-54. doi: 10.2466/03.04.PR0.113x29z0.

Ammons quick test validity among randomly selected referrals.

Zagar RJ, Kovach JW, Busch KG, Zablocki MD, Osnowitz W, Neuhengen J, Liu Y, 
Zagar AK.

After selection using a random number table, from volunteer referrals, 89 Youth 
(61 boys, 28 girls; 48 African Americans, 2 Asian Americans, 27 Euro-Americans, 
12 Hispanic Americans), and 147 Adults (107 men, 40 women; 11 African Americans, 
6 Asian Americans, 124 Euro-Americans, 6 Hispanic Americans) were administered 
the Ammons Quick Test (QT). Means, confidence intervals, standard deviations, 
and Pearson product-moment correlations among tests were computed. The Ammons QT 
was moderately to strongly and significantly correlated statistically with: the 
Peabody Picture Vocabulary Test-3b (PPVT-3b); the Vineland Adaptive Behavior 
Scales-2 Parent/Teacher Form; the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children 
(WISC-4) or the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale (WAIS-4); and the Wide Range 
Achievement Test-Fourth Edition (WRAT-4) Blue and Green Forms. After 51 years, 
the original norms for the Ammons QT remain valid measures of receptive 
vocabulary, verbal intelligence, and auditory information processing useful to 
clinicians.

DOI: 10.2466/03.04.PR0.113x29z0
PMID: 24693814 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1597. Ayu. 2013 Oct;34(4):383-9. doi: 10.4103/0974-8520.127720.

Effects of Medhya Rasayana and Yogic practices in improvement of short-term 
memory among school-going children.

Sarokte AS(1), Rao MV(2).

Author information:
(1)Junior Resident III, Department of Swasthavritta and Yoga, Faculty of 
Ayurveda, Institute of Medical Sciences, Banaras Hindu University, Varanasi, 
Uttar Pradesh, India.
(2)Assistant Professor, Department of Swasthavritta and Yoga, Faculty of 
Ayurveda, Institute of Medical Sciences, Banaras Hindu University, Varanasi, 
Uttar Pradesh, India.

Excellent memory, extraordinary intelligence, great academic achievement, and 
successful career are the dreams of every individual in this era of competition 
and professionalism. A good memory power acts as a catalyst in all walks of 
life, be it academic success or maintenance of personal relationships. It is 
observed that an average man uses only 10% of his natural memory. Remaining 90% 
is left unused in a haphazard manner. As per the American psychologist Carl Emil 
Seashore, if one is alert and makes systematic attempts to awaken and use the 
natural memory properly, his/her natural memory would be activated creatively 
and would offer benefits of higher order. A comparative study was conducted 
comprising 90 subjects to know the efficacy of Medhya Rasayana and Yogic 
practices in short-term memory of school-going children. The study was conducted 
over a period of 3 months. It was an open, prospective, and randomized clinical 
study. The subjects of group A formed the control group and they were observed 
silently for 3 months without any intervention. The subjects in group B were 
administered with Choorna (powder) of four Medhya Rasayanas, Mandukaparni 
(Centella asiatica Linn.), Yashtimadhu (Glycyrrhiza glabra Linn.), Guduchi 
[Tinospora cordifolia (Willd.) Miers ex Hook. f. and Thoms.], and Sankhapushpi 
(Convolvulus pluricaulis Choisy), at a dose of 2 g twice daily with milk. 
Subjects belonging to group C were advocated regular Yogic practices of Asanas, 
Pranayama, and Dhyana. Further study revealed that among the three groups, group 
B treated with Medhya Rasayana showed highly significant and most effective 
changes with respect to objective parameters in the tests, i.e. (1) short-term 
memory test pictures and (2) serial recall effects test using memory scope. 
Among the three groups, group C treated with Yogic practices showed highly 
significant and most effective changes with respect to subjective and objective 
parameters in mini mental status scale i.e. test 3. The treatment is cost 
effective and devoid of side effects, which can be beneficial for the community. 
Mean increase after first follow-up in group B was higher as compared to group 
C. This shows that Medhya Rasayanas are quick in action and bring about 
improvement in memory faster when compared with Yogic practices. So, on the 
whole, group B can be considered to be the most efficient among the three 
groups.

DOI: 10.4103/0974-8520.127720
PMCID: PMC3968701
PMID: 24695779


1598. J Pastoral Care Counsel. 2013 Sep-Dec;67(3-4):2.

Emotional competence (intelligence) and vocational choice among candidates for 
the ordained ministry.

Hunt RA, Mortensen RA, Gorsuch RL, Malony HN.

This research examined the ways in which vocational interests of United 
Methodist candidates for ordained ministry are related to Emotional Competence 
(EC) as measured by Inventory of Religious Activities and Interests (IRAI) 
ministry interests and 16PF personality scales. Results show two primary 
clusters of ministry interests that are related to EC. Recommendations include 
ways that supervisors, mentors, and pastor-staff-parish relations committees can 
use this information to enable pastors to grow in their EC skills.

PMID: 24720233 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1599. Intelligence. 2013 Sep;41(5):597-606. doi: 10.1016/j.intell.2013.07.010.

Associations between cortical thickness and general intelligence in children, 
adolescents and young adults.

Menary K(1), Collins PF(2), Porter JN(2), Muetzel R(3), Olson EA(2), Kumar V(4), 
Steinbach M(4), Lim KO(5), Luciana M(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis MN 55455.
(2)Department of Psychology, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis MN 55455 ; 
Center for Neurobehavioral Development, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis MN 
55455.
(3)Department of Psychology, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis MN 55455 ; 
Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Erasmus MC-Sophia Children's 
Hospital, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(4)Department of Computer Science, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis MN 
55455.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis MN 55455 ; 
Center for Neurobehavioral Development, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis MN 
55455.

Neuroimaging research indicates that human intellectual ability is related to 
brain structure including the thickness of the cerebral cortex. Most studies 
indicate that general intelligence is positively associated with cortical 
thickness in areas of association cortex distributed throughout both brain 
hemispheres. In this study, we performed a cortical thickness mapping analysis 
on data from 182 healthy typically developing males and females ages 9 to 24 
years to identify correlates of general intelligence (g) scores. To determine if 
these correlates also mediate associations of specific cognitive abilities with 
cortical thickness, we regressed specific cognitive test scores on g scores and 
analyzed the residuals with respect to cortical thickness. The effect of age on 
the association between cortical thickness and intelligence was examined. We 
found a widely distributed pattern of positive associations between cortical 
thickness and g scores, as derived from the first unrotated principal factor of 
a factor analysis of Wechsler Abbreviated Scale of Intelligence (WASI) subtest 
scores. After WASI specific cognitive subtest scores were regressed on g factor 
scores, the residual score variances did not correlate significantly with 
cortical thickness in the full sample with age covaried. When participants were 
grouped at the age median, significant positive associations of cortical 
thickness were obtained in the older group for g-residualized scores on Block 
Design (a measure of visual-motor integrative processing) while significant 
negative associations of cortical thickness were observed in the younger group 
for g-residualized Vocabulary scores. These results regarding correlates of 
general intelligence are concordant with the existing literature, while the 
findings from younger versus older subgroups have implications for future 
research on brain structural correlates of specific cognitive abilities, as well 
as the cognitive domain specificity of behavioral performance correlates of 
normative gray matter thinning during adolescence.

DOI: 10.1016/j.intell.2013.07.010
PMCID: PMC3985090
PMID: 24744452

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest The authors have no 
conflicts of interest to declare.


1600. Br J Psychol. 2014 May;105(2):187-99. doi: 10.1111/bjop.12033. Epub 2013 May 15.

Sub-threshold autism traits: the role of trait emotional intelligence and 
cognitive flexibility.

Gökçen E(1), Petrides KV, Hudry K, Frederickson N, Smillie LD.

Author information:
(1)London Psychometric Laboratory, University College London, UK.

Theory and research suggests that features of autism are not restricted to 
individuals diagnosed with autism spectrum disorders (ASDs), and that 
autism-like traits vary throughout the general population at lower severities. 
The present research first investigated the relationship of autism traits with 
trait emotional intelligence and empathy in a sample of 163 adults aged between 
18 and 51 years (44% male). It then examined performance on a set of tasks 
assessing social cognition and cognitive flexibility in 69 participants with 
either high or low scores on ASD traits. Results confirm that there is 
pronounced variation within the general population relating to ASD traits, which 
reflect similar (though less severe) social-cognitive and emotional features to 
those observed in ASDs.

© 2013 The British Psychological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/bjop.12033
PMCID: PMC4209115
PMID: 24754807 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1601. Br J Psychol. 2014 May;105(2):243-53. doi: 10.1111/bjop.12031. Epub 2013 Apr 17.

Intelligence, gender, and assessment method affect the accuracy of 
self-estimated intelligence.

von Stumm S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Goldsmiths University of London, UK.

Self-estimates of intelligence (SEI), which influence to what extent people 
engage in and how well they perform at a task, are subject to distortion. Here, 
the distortion effects of individual differences in intelligence (IQ), gender, 
and proximal (with reference to test performance) and distal (with reference to 
IQ score distributions) assessments of SEI were tested in a sample of 200 
British adults. The results showed that (1) people with lower IQ misestimated 
their SEI to a greater extent than people with high IQ; (2) this effect was more 
pronounced in distal than proximal measures of SEI; (3) SEI means did not differ 
significantly across gender but the IQ-related level of SEI distortion did; (4) 
this effect was greater for distal than proximal measurement; and (5) proximal 
SEI were on average less distorted than distal SEI scores and also correlated 
more closely with IQ. Overall, the findings suggest that the distal SEI 
assessment method resulted in greater gender- and IQ-related distortions of SEI.

© 2013 The British Psychological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/bjop.12031
PMID: 24754811 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1602. Natl Med J India. 2013 Jul-Aug;26(4):210-3.

Emotional intelligence, perceived stress and burnout among resident doctors: an 
assessment of the relationship.

Swami MK(1), Mathur DM(2), Pushp BK(1).

Author information:
(1)Rabindra Nath Tagore Medical College, Udaipur, Rajasthan, India - Department 
of Psychiatry.
(2)Geetanjali Medical College, Udaipur, Rajasthan - Department of Psychiatry.

BACKGROUND: Burnout is an increasing problem among the medical fraternity, 
especially resident doctors. We assessed the relationship between burnout, 
emotional intelligence and perceived stress in an attempt to explore a probable 
solution.
METHODS: Residents in the departments of medicine (n=29) and surgery (n=27) were 
assessed with a specially designed proforma consisting of participant's profile 
sheet, Shirom-Melamed Burnout Measure (SMBM), Trait Emotional Intelligence 
Questionnaire and Perceived Stress Scale (PSS). Correlation and mediational 
analysis were used to analyse the data.
RESULTS: The findings showed a positive correlation of burnout with perceived 
stress and a negative correlation with trait emotional intelligence (EI). 
Perceived stress also showed a negative correlation with trait EI. Mediation 
analysis showed that perceived stress mediates the effect of trait EI on 
burnout.
CONCLUSION: Enhancing EI through training may be an important intervention for 
targeting burnout.

Copyright 2013, NMJI.

PMID: 24758443 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1603. Games Health J. 2013 Apr;2(2):81-88. doi: 10.1089/g4h.2012.0073.

Computational Intelligence and Game Design for Effective At-Home Stroke 
Rehabilitation.

Borghese NA(1), Pirovano M(2), Lanzi PL(3), Wüest S(4), de Bruin ED(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Computer Science, University of Milan , Milan, Italy .
(2)Department of Computer Science, University of Milan , Milan, Italy . ; 
Dipartimento di Elettronica, Informazione e Bioingegneria - Politecnico di 
Milano , Milan, Italy .
(3)Dipartimento di Elettronica, Informazione e Bioingegneria - Politecnico di 
Milano , Milan, Italy .
(4)Institute of Human Movement Sciences and Sport , Department of Health 
Sciences and Technology, ETH Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland .

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this article is to describe a game engine that has all the 
characteristics needed to support rehabilitation at home. The low-cost tracking 
devices recently introduced in the entertainment market allow measuring reliably 
at home, in real time, players' motion with a hands-free approach. Such systems 
have also become a source of inspiration for researchers working in 
rehabilitation. Computer games appear suited to guide rehabilitation because of 
their ability to engage the users. However, commercial videogames and game 
engines lack the peculiar functionalities required in rehabilitation: Games 
should be adapted to each patient's functional status, and monitoring the 
patient's motion is mandatory to avoid maladaptation. Feedback on performance 
and progression of the exercises should be provided. Lastly, several tracking 
devices should be considered, according to the patient's pathology and 
rehabilitation aims.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: We have analyzed the needs of the clinicians and of the 
patients associated in performing rehabilitation at home, identifying the 
characteristics that the game engine should have.
RESULTS: The result of this analysis has led us to develop the Intelligent Game 
Engine for Rehabilitation (IGER) system, which combines the principles upon 
which commercial games are designed with the needs of rehabilitation. IGER is 
heavily based on computational intelligence: Adaptation of the difficulty level 
of the exercise is carried out through a Bayesian framework from the observation 
of the patient's success rate. Monitoring is implemented in fuzzy systems and 
based on rules defined for the exercises by clinicians. Several devices can be 
attached to IGER through an input abstraction layer, like the Nintendo® (Kyoto, 
Japan) Wii™ Balance Board™, the Microsoft® (Redmond, WA) Kinect, the Falcon from 
Novint Technologies (Albuquerque, NM), or the Tyromotion (Graz, Austria) Timo® 
plate balance board. IGER is complemented with videogames embedded in a specific 
taxonomy developed to support rehabilitation progression through time.
CONCLUSIONS: A few games aimed at postural rehabilitation have been designed and 
developed to test the functionalities of the IGER system. The preliminary 
results of tests on normal elderly people and patients with the supervision of 
clinicians have shown that the IGER system indeed does feature the 
characteristics required to support rehabilitation at home and that it is ready 
for clinical pilot testing at patients' homes.

DOI: 10.1089/g4h.2012.0073
PMCID: PMC3833380
PMID: 24761321


1604. Med J Islam Repub Iran. 2013 Aug;27(3):119-26.

Development of visual-motor perception in pupils with expressive writing 
disorder and pupils without expressive writing disorder: a comparative 
statistical analysis.

Mesrahi T(1), Sedighi M(2).

Author information:
(1)Instructor, MSc in psychology, Department of Psychology, Islamic Azad 
University, Karaj Branch, Karaj, Iran. t.mesrahi@gmail.com.
(2)MSc student, Young Researchers Club, Islamic Azad University, Bueenzahra 
Branch, Bueenzahra, Iran; m.r.sedighi67@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Learning disability is one of the most noticed subjects for 
behavioral specialists. Most of thelearning difficulties are caused by 
senso-motor development and neurological organization. The main purposeof the 
present research is to examine the role of delayed perceptual-motor development 
and brain damage inorigination of expressive writing disorder (EWD).
METHODS: The studied sample is 89 pupils divided into two groups, one of which 
is pupils with expressivewriting disorder (n=43) and the other is pupils without 
expressive writing disorder (n=46), consisted of secondand third grade 
elementary school students. First of all, students with EWD are selected through 
dictation testand intelligence test, and then the two groups, students with and 
without EWD, would take the Bender Gestalttest. The average score of perceptual 
visual-motor development and brain damage of two groups is comparedusing T test 
for independent groups and χ2 test.
RESULTS: Results show that there is a significant difference in perceptual 
visual-motor development betweenstudents with EWD and students without EWD 
(p<0.01). Based on the results, perceptual-motor development ofstudents with EWD 
is lower than students without EWD. There is no significant difference in brain 
damagebetween those with EWD and healthy people, (p> 0.05).
CONCLUSION: Based on our findings it could be concluded that those who are 
relatively more developed thantheir peers, in terms of visual-motor perception, 
are more successful in education, especially in expressive writing.

PMCID: PMC3917489
PMID: 24791121


1605. Curr Dir Psychol Sci. 2013 Oct;22(5):349-355. doi: 10.1177/0963721413485087.

Genetic and Environmental Influences on Cognition Across Development and 
Context.

Tucker-Drob EM(1), Briley DA(1), Harden KP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology and Population Research Center, University of Texas 
at Austin.

Genes account for between approximately 50% and 70% of the variation in 
cognition at the population level. However, population-level estimates of 
heritability potentially mask marked subgroup differences. We review the body of 
empirical evidence indicating that (a) genetic influences on cognition increase 
from infancy to adulthood, and (b) genetic influences on cognition are maximized 
in more advantaged socioeconomic contexts (i.e., a Gene × Socioeconomic Status 
interaction). We discuss potential mechanisms underlying these effects, 
particularly transactional models of cognitive development. Transactional models 
predict that people in high-opportunity contexts actively evoke and select 
positive learning experiences on the basis of their genetic predispositions; 
these learning experiences, in turn, reciprocally influence cognition. The net 
result of this transactional process is increasing genetic influence with 
increasing age and increasing environmental opportunity.

DOI: 10.1177/0963721413485087
PMCID: PMC4006996
PMID: 24799770

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting Interests The authors 
declared that they had no conflicts of interest with respect to their authorship 
or the publication of this article.


1606. IEEE Trans Neural Netw Learn Syst. 2013 Oct;24(10):1623-34. doi: 
10.1109/TNNLS.2013.2264952.

Ensemble learning in fixed expansion layer networks for mitigating catastrophic 
forgetting.

Coop R, Mishtal A, Arel I.

Catastrophic forgetting is a well-studied attribute of most parameterized 
supervised learning systems. A variation of this phenomenon, in the context of 
feedforward neural networks, arises when nonstationary inputs lead to loss of 
previously learned mappings. The majority of the schemes proposed in the 
literature for mitigating catastrophic forgetting were not data driven and did 
not scale well. We introduce the fixed expansion layer (FEL) feedforward neural 
network, which embeds a sparsely encoding hidden layer to help mitigate 
forgetting of prior learned representations. In addition, we investigate a novel 
framework for training ensembles of FEL networks, based on exploiting an 
information-theoretic measure of diversity between FEL learners, to further 
control undesired plasticity. The proposed methodology is demonstrated on a 
basic classification task, clearly emphasizing its advantages over existing 
techniques. The architecture proposed can be enhanced to address a range of 
computational intelligence tasks, such as regression problems and system 
control.

DOI: 10.1109/TNNLS.2013.2264952
PMID: 24808599 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1607. Int J Psychol. 2014 Jun;49(3):167-74. doi: 10.1002/ijop.12021. Epub 2013 Nov 20.

The cultural background of the non-academic concept of psychology in Japan: its 
implications for introductory education in psychology.

Ashitaka Y(1), Shimada H.

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Maritime Sciences, Kobe University, Hyogo, Japan.

No research has empirically explored the non-academic concept of psychology 
itself (implicit theories) in non-Western cultures despite a widely held belief 
that this understanding differs cross-culturally. This study examined whether 
the non-academic concept of psychology among inexperienced Japanese students 
differed from the concept held by students of other countries. In Japanese, 
psychology is referred to as , which includes the ideographic character , 
literally meaning heart. This fact led us to hypothesize that psychology will be 
disproportionately associated with emotion among Japanese students. Indeed, our 
findings among Japanese students produced a J-curve, indicating that our 
prediction was true. We posit that this issue has never been discussed in Japan 
because a majority of people share this concept of psychology. In our second 
study, we examined not only preference in students' association of intelligence 
or emotion but also heart or mind with psychology. Finally, we identified 
whether students' believe that psychology encompasses both the heart and the 
mind. We conclude with a discussion of the importance of explicitly defining the 
non-academic concept of psychology in early psychology education in Japan.

© 2013 International Union of Psychological Science.

DOI: 10.1002/ijop.12021
PMID: 24821505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1608. Appl Neuropsychol Adult. 2014;21(1):14-20. doi: 10.1080/09084282.2012.718017. 
Epub 2013 Jun 14.

Cold pressor-induced pain does not impair WAIS-IV processing speed index or 
working memory index performance.

Etherton J(1).

Author information:
(1)a Department of Psychology , Texas State University , San Marcos , Texas.

Chronic pain frequently involves cognitive complaints such as concentration and 
memory deficits, but studies of the effects of pain on cognition have not 
consistently demonstrated deficits and have not typically utilized standard 
neuropsychological instruments. Effects of cold pressor-induced pain on Wechsler 
Adult Intelligence Scale-Fourth Edition Processing Speed Index (PSI) and Working 
Memory Index (WMI) performance was examined in nonclinical volunteers (n = 40). 
All took one PSI subtest and one WMI subtest normally, and then took different 
PSI and WMI subtests during cold pressor-induced pain or painless warm-water 
immersion. Scaled scores for normal administration versus pain or painless water 
immersion did not differ and there was no interaction between group (control vs. 
pain) and manner of administration, despite moderately severe mean pain ratings 
(M = 6.8 on a 0-10 pain-rating scale). Results indicate that induced pain in 
nonclinical volunteers does not impair PSI or WMI performance, and they suggest 
that chronic pain per se should not be expected to substantially affect these 
cognitive functions. However, patients with chronic pain may differ from 
nonclinical volunteers in their experience of pain, potentially limiting 
generalizability.

DOI: 10.1080/09084282.2012.718017
PMID: 24826491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1609. Appl Neuropsychol Adult. 2014;21(1):51-9. doi: 10.1080/09084282.2012.726670. 
Epub 2013 Jun 21.

Unreliable block span reveals simulated intellectual disability on the 
stanford-binet intelligence scales-fifth edition.

Barker A(1), Musso MW, Jones GN, Roid G, Gouvier D.

Author information:
(1)a Psychology Department , Louisiana State University , Baton Rouge , 
Louisiana.

Previously developed validity measures are largely lacking in their ability to 
accurately distinguish malingerers from individuals with genuine intellectual 
disabilities (ID). The purpose of the present study was to develop a validity 
index for the Stanford-Binet Intelligence Scales-Fifth Edition (SB-5) aimed at 
detecting malingered ID. Fifty-four college students were instructed to feign 
impairment consistent with mental retardation while completing the SB-5. 
Simulated malingerers performed significantly poorer on the Block Span task of 
the SB-5 than did individuals with genuine impairment. A Block Span Validity 
Index (BSVI) cutoff score of less than 10 showed perfect specificity by 
correctly identifying all persons with true ID and demonstrated 52% sensitivity 
in identifying persons feigning impairment. For the detection of malingered ID, 
the BSVI yielded favorable results, although more research is needed to validate 
the BSVI using a known-groups study design.

DOI: 10.1080/09084282.2012.726670
PMID: 24826496 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1610. Br J Educ Psychol. 2014 Jun;84(Pt 2):239-52. doi: 10.1111/bjep.12019. Epub 2013 
Apr 23.

A meta-analysis of adult-rated child personality and academic performance in 
primary education.

Poropat AE(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Applied Psychology, Griffith University, Mount Gravatt, Queensland, 
Australia.

BACKGROUND: Personality is reliably associated with academic performance, but 
personality measurement in primary education can be problematic. Young children 
find it difficult to accurately self-rate personality, and dominant models of 
adult personality may be inappropriate for children.
AIMS: This meta-analysis was conducted to determine the validity of the 
Five-Factor Model (FFM) of personality for statistically predicting children's 
academic performance.
SAMPLE: Literature search identified 12 reports, with cumulative sample sizes 
ranging from 4,382 (19 correlations) to 5,706 (23 correlations) for correlations 
with Emotional Stability and Conscientiousness respectively.
METHOD: Hunter-Schmidt random-effects meta-analysis was used, and moderators 
were tested using sample-weighted regression.
RESULTS: When compared with self-rated measures, adult-rated Conscientiousness 
and Openness were more strongly correlated with academic performance, but 
adult-rated Agreeableness was less strongly correlated. Q-set-based assessments 
had lower validity, which appeared to explain moderating effects of rating 
source. Moderating effects were not found for age, year of education (grades 
1-7), or language within which the study was conducted.
CONCLUSIONS: Conscientiousness and Openness had two of the strongest 
correlations with academic performance yet reported, comparable with previous 
meta-analytic correlations of academic performance with instructional quality, 
cognitive ability, and feedback. The FFM appears to be valid for educational 
research with children. Openness, which has no counterpart in models of 
children's temperament, should be further researched with children. Future 
research should examine the measurement of childhood personality, its 
relationship with intelligence, the extent to which it is malleable in primary 
education, and its causal relationship with academic performance.

© 2013 The British Psychological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/bjep.12019
PMID: 24829119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1611. J Dev Orig Health Dis. 2013 Dec;4(6):513-21. doi: 10.1017/S2040174413000287.

Intrauterine environment and cognitive development in young twins.

Antoniou EE(1), Fowler T(2), Thiery E(3), Southwood TR(4), van Gestel S(5), 
Jacobs N(6), Vlietinck R(5), van Os J(7), Rijsdijk FV(8), Derom C(5), Zeegers 
MP(9).

Author information:
(1)1 Department of Clinical Psychological Science, Faculty of Psychology and 
Neuroscience, Maastricht University, The Netherlands.
(2)2 Department of Public Health, Heart of Birmingham Teaching PCT, Birmingham, 
UK.
(3)3 Department of Neurology, Ghent University Hospital, Ghent University, 
Ghent, Belgium.
(4)4 Institute of Child Health, University of Birmingham, UK.
(5)5 Centre of Human Genetics, University Hospitals Leuven & Department of Human 
Genetics, KU Leuven, Belgium.
(6)6 Department of Psychology, Open University of the Netherlands, Heerlen, The 
Netherlands.
(7)7 Department of Psychiatry and Neuropsychology, School for Mental Health and 
Neuroscience, Maastricht University Medical Centre, The Netherlands.
(8)8 King's College London, MRC Social, Genetic and Developmental Psychiatry 
Centre, Institute of Psychiatry, London, UK.
(9)9 Department of Complex Genetics, Cluster of Genetics and Cell Biology, 
NUTRIM School for Nutrition, Toxicology and Metabolism, Maastricht University 
Medical Centre, Maastricht, The Netherlands.

Intrauterine factors important for cognitive development, such as birth weight, 
chorionicity and umbilical cord characteristics were investigated. A total of 
663 twin pairs completed the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children-Revised 
and scores were available for Performance, Verbal and Total Intelligence 
Quotient (IQ). The intrauterine factors examined were birth weight, placental 
weight and morphology, cord knots, cord length and cord insertion. IQ scores for 
the varying levels of the intrauterine markers adjusting for gender and 
gestational age were calculated. The heritability of IQ and the association 
between IQ and intrauterine environment were examined. Twins with lower birth 
weight and cord knots had lower IQ scores. The aetiology of IQ is largely 
distinct from that of birth weight and cord knots, and non-shared environment 
may influence the observed relationships.

DOI: 10.1017/S2040174413000287
PMID: 24924230


1612. Br J Psychol. 2014 Aug;105(3):316-37. doi: 10.1111/bjop.12039. Epub 2013 Jun 28.

Why is intelligence associated with stability of happiness?

Kanazawa S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Management, London School of Economics and Political Science, 
UK.

In the National Child Development Study, life-course variability in happiness 
over 18 years was significantly negatively associated with its mean level 
(happier individuals were more stable in their happiness, and it was not due to 
the ceiling effect), as well as childhood general intelligence and all Big Five 
personality factors (except for Agreeableness). In a multiple regression 
analysis, childhood general intelligence was the strongest predictor of 
life-course variability in life satisfaction, stronger than all Big Five 
personality factors, including Emotional stability. More intelligent individuals 
were significantly more stable in their happiness, and it was not entirely 
because: (1) they were more educated and wealthier (even though they were); (2) 
they were healthier (even though they were); (3) they were more stable in their 
marital status (even though they were); (4) they were happier (even though they 
were); (5) they were better able to assess their own happiness accurately (even 
though they were); or (6) they were better able to recall their previous 
responses more accurately or they were more honest in their survey responses 
(even though they were both). While I could exclude all of these alternative 
explanations, it ultimately remained unclear why more intelligent individuals 
were more stable in their happiness.

© 2013 The British Psychological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/bjop.12039
PMID: 24943404 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1613. Int J High Risk Behav Addict. 2013 Dec;2(3):132-5. doi: 10.5812/ijhrba.11308. 
Epub 2013 Dec 22.

Spiritual intelligence, resiliency, and withdrawal time in clients of methadone 
maintenance treatment.

Shahbakhsh B(1), Moallemi S(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Baharan Psychiatric Hospital, Zahedan University of 
Medical Sciences, Zahedan, IR Iran.
(2)Deputy of Research, Zahedan University of Medical Sciences, Zahedan, IR Iran.

BACKGROUND: Reports show an increasing interest in spirituality. It has been 
revealed that people with spiritual tendencies, can better deal with a trauma, 
manage the stressful situations, and have greater improvement in their health 
condition.
OBJECTIVES: Our aim was to examine the relationship between spiritual 
intelligence and resiliency, and the relation of these two variables with the 
withdrawal time of individuals treated with methadone.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This research was conducted on patients referred to the 
addiction center of Baharan Psychiatric Hospital in Zahedan, Iran. Our sample 
included 100 referrals; they were provided with questionnaires and asked to 
answer them honestly. King's spiritual intelligence questionnaire and resilience 
questionnaires were used.
RESULTS: There were significant positive correlations between resiliency and 
scores of spiritual intelligence as well as with subscales of spiritual 
intelligence. In addition, there were significant positive correlations between 
withdrawal time and scores of spiritual intelligence as well as with subscales 
of spiritual intelligence as well as with resiliency.
CONCLUSIONS: Relationships between the spiritual intelligence and resiliency 
parameters with withdrawal time show that these parameters can have a role in 
relapse protection among addicted people.

DOI: 10.5812/ijhrba.11308
PMCID: PMC4070160
PMID: 24971291


1614. Int J Psychol. 2014 Aug;49(4):249-56. doi: 10.1002/ijop.12014. Epub 2013 Nov 20.

What my parents make me believe in learning: the role of filial piety in Hong 
Kong students' motivation and academic achievement.

Chen WW(1), Wong YL.

Author information:
(1)University of Macau, Macau, China.

Chinese students are well-known for their academic excellence. However, studies 
that explore the underlying mechanism of how cultural factors relate to the 
motivational process and academic achievement of Chinese students have been 
limited. This study aimed to examine the role of filial piety in shaping Chinese 
students' theories of intelligence so as to obtain a clearer understanding of 
the process by which parent-child connectedness is linked to Chinese students' 
academic achievement. A sample of 312 university students in Hong Kong were 
assessed concerning their filial piety beliefs, theories of intelligence and 
academic achievement. Data were analysed using structural equation modelling. 
The results indicated that different filial piety beliefs relate to students' 
academic achievement by shaping different theories of intelligence. Reciprocal 
filial piety beliefs were found to facilitate an incremental view of 
intelligence, which in turn contributes to students' academic achievement. 
Authoritarian filial piety beliefs were shown to be associated with an entity 
view of intelligence, which consequently deteriorates students' academic 
achievement. Cultural views of motivational processes can shed light on how 
motivational beliefs are developed as a product of cultural or socialization 
processes, which, in turn, contribute to students' academic success.

© 2013 International Union of Psychological Science.

DOI: 10.1002/ijop.12014
PMID: 24990635 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1615. Psychiatr Pol. 2013 Nov-Dec;47(6):1041-50.

[The role of the jumping to conclusion bias in delusions formation].

[Article in Polish]

Rózycka J, Prochwicz K.

The results of many researches indicate that individuals with delusions reveal 
the reasoning bias. In probabilistic reasoning tasks they reveal hastiness in 
decision-making. The individuals with delusions request less information than 
non-deluded individuals, even if additional data is easily available. What is 
more, they also prove to be convinced to a greater extend of having made the 
right decision. This finding has been replicated by a number of studies. 
However, the previous researches have not confirmed the origins of 'jumping to 
conclusion' bias, and its role in the process of forming delusions has not been 
yet confirmed. The article in question contains the review of the results of the 
jumping to conclusion bias in people with delusions. It discusses the main 
hypotheses explaining the relations between the hasty decision making and the 
delusions formation. The article also deals with the specifics of 'jumping to 
conclusion' bias in case of individuals with delusions, as well as summarizes 
its relation to factors such as the level of intelligence or the intensity of 
delusion.

PMID: 25007536 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1616. Asian Nurs Res (Korean Soc Nurs Sci). 2013 Sep;7(3):136-41. doi: 
10.1016/j.anr.2013.07.002. Epub 2013 Jul 18.

Factors influencing post-traumatic stress in Korean forensic science 
investigators.

Yoo YS(1), Cho OH(2), Cha KS(3), Boo YJ(4).

Author information:
(1)College of Nursing, The Catholic University, Seoul, South Korea.
(2)College of Nursing, Jeju National University, Jeju, South Korea. Electronic 
address: ohcho@jejunu.ac.kr.
(3)Department of Nursing, Daegu Haany University, Daegu, South Korea.
(4)College of Nursing, Jeju National University, Jeju, South Korea.

PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to understand factors that influence 
post-traumatic stress (PTS) in Korean forensic science investigators.
METHODS: A total of 111 forensic science investigators were recruited in Korea. 
PTS was measured using the tool modified by Choi (2001) from the original 
developed by Foa, Riggs, Dancu, and Rothbaum (1993) based on DSM-IV. Factors 
influencing PTS included demographic and job-related characteristics, emotional 
intelligence, and death anxiety.
RESULTS: PTS scores were positively correlated with personality type, fatigue 
from work, and death anxiety. PTS scores were negatively correlated with length 
of career as a forensic science investigator and emotional intelligence. The 
factors that had the greatest influence on PTS were death anxiety, years spent 
as a forensic science investigator, personality type, emotional intelligence, 
fatigue, and homicide experience. The explanatory power of these six factors was 
44.0%.
CONCLUSION: Therefore, it is necessary to regularly evaluate the mental health 
of those who are vulnerable to PTS. Based on these results, various 
interventions could be implemented for promoting overall health of the forensic 
science investigators.

Copyright © 2013. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.anr.2013.07.002
PMID: 25030251


1617. J Res Crime Delinq. 2013 Nov;50(4):504-524. doi: 10.1177/0022427812469113.

Spatial, Temporal and Spatio-Temporal Patterns of Maritime Piracy.

Marchione E(1), Johnson SD(1).

Author information:
(1)UCL Department of Security and Crime Science, University College London, 
London.

OBJECTIVES: To examine patterns in the timing and location of incidents of 
maritime piracy to see whether, like many urban crimes, attacks cluster in space 
and time.
METHODS: Data for all incidents of maritime piracy worldwide recorded by the 
National Geospatial Intelligence Agency are analyzed using time-series models 
and methods originally developed to detect disease contagion.
RESULTS: At the macro level, analyses suggest that incidents of pirate attacks 
are concentrated in five subregions of the earth's oceans and that the time 
series for these different subregions differ. At the micro level, analyses 
suggest that for the last 16 years (or more), pirate attacks appear to cluster 
in space and time suggesting that patterns are not static but are also not 
random.
CONCLUSIONS: Much like other types of crime, pirate attacks cluster in space, 
and following an attack at one location the risk of others at the same location 
or nearby is temporarily elevated. The identification of such regularities has 
implications for the understanding of maritime piracy and for predicting the 
future locations of attacks.

DOI: 10.1177/0022427812469113
PMCID: PMC4110984
PMID: 25076796

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting Interests: The 
authors declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


1618. Int J Alcohol Drug Res. 2013 Nov 26;2(3):51-60. doi: 10.7895/ijadr.v2i3.83.

A Practical Testing Battery to Measure Neurobehavioral Ability among Children 
with FASD.

Kalberg WO(1), May PA(2), Blankenship J(1), Buckley D(1), Gossage JP(1), Adnams 
CM(3).

Author information:
(1)Center on Alcoholism, Substance Abuse and Addictions, The University of New 
Mexico, Albuquerque, New Mexico, USA.
(2)Center on Alcoholism, Substance Abuse and Addictions, The University of New 
Mexico, Albuquerque, New Mexico, USA ; The University of North Carolina at 
Chapel Hill, Gillings School of Public Health, Nutrition Research Institute, 
Kannapolis, North Carolina.
(3)Departments of Psychiatry and Pediatrics, The University of Cape Town, Cape 
Town, Republic of South Africa.

AIMS: To determine a brief, practical battery of tests that discriminate between 
children with a fetal alcohol spectrum disorder (FASD) and unexposed controls.
DESIGN: Children received dysmorphology exams, a targeted battery of cognitive 
and behavioral tests, and their mothers were interviewed about maternal risk 
factors. Children diagnosed with an FASD and children unexposed to alcohol 
prenatally were compared on cognitive/behavioral test results.
SETTING: A community in The Western Cape Province of South Africa.
PARTICIPANTS: Sixty-one, first grade children with FASD and 52 matched normal 
controls.
MEASURES: Statistical analyses of maternal drinking behavior and their child's 
test performance.
FINDINGS: Self-reported maternal drinking patterns before during and after 
pregnancy were used to confirm prenatal exposures to alcohol in the group of 
children diagnosed with FASD. With this sample of children diagnosed with FASD 
and completely unexposed controls, the adverse effects of maternal drinking on 
children's performance are reported. Results of the battery of standardized 
cognitive and behavioral tests indicate highly significant differences (p ≤ 
.001) between groups on: intelligence, perceptual motor, planning, and logical, 
spatial, short term, long term, and working memory abilities. Furthermore, a 
binary logistical regression model of only 3 specific cognitive and behavioral 
tests, including Digit Span A+B (Wald = 4.10), Absurd Situation (Wald = 3.57), 
and Word Association (Wald = 4.30) correctly classified 79.1% of the child 
participants as FASD or controls.
CONCLUSIONS: A brief, practical set of tests can discriminate children with and 
without FASD and provide useful information for interventions for affected 
children.

DOI: 10.7895/ijadr.v2i3.83
PMCID: PMC4170949
PMID: 25258654


1619. Appl Neuropsychol Adult. 2014;21(4):297-309. doi: 10.1080/23279095.2013.811671. 
Epub 2013 Nov 5.

The design organization test: further demonstration of reliability and validity 
as a brief measure of visuospatial ability.

Killgore WD(1), Gogel H.

Author information:
(1)a Center for Depression, Anxiety, and Stress Research, McLean Hospital , 
Belmont , Massachusetts.

Neuropsychological assessments are frequently time-consuming and fatiguing for 
patients. Brief screening evaluations may reduce test duration and allow more 
efficient use of time by permitting greater attention toward neuropsychological 
domains showing probable deficits. The Design Organization Test (DOT) was 
initially developed as a 2-min paper-and-pencil alternative for the Block Design 
(BD) subtest of the Wechsler scales. Although initially validated for clinical 
neurologic patients, we sought to further establish the reliability and validity 
of this test in a healthy, more diverse population. Two alternate versions of 
the DOT and the Wechsler Abbreviated Scale of Intelligence (WASI) were 
administered to 61 healthy adult participants. The DOT showed high alternate 
forms reliability (r = .90-.92), and the two versions yielded equivalent levels 
of performance. The DOT was highly correlated with BD (r = .76-.79) and was 
significantly correlated with all subscales of the WASI. The DOT proved useful 
when used in lieu of BD in the calculation of WASI IQ scores. Findings support 
the reliability and validity of the DOT as a measure of visuospatial ability and 
suggest its potential worth as an efficient estimate of intellectual functioning 
in situations where lengthier tests may be inappropriate or unfeasible.

DOI: 10.1080/23279095.2013.811671
PMCID: PMC4235486
PMID: 25265311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1620. Br J Dev Psychol. 2014 Mar;32(1):50-64. doi: 10.1111/bjdp.12021. Epub 2013 Oct 
28.

A longitudinal intergenerational analysis of executive functions during early 
childhood.

Cuevas K(1), Deater-Deckard K, Kim-Spoon J, Wang Z, Morasch KC, Bell MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Connecticut, Waterbury, Connecticut, 
USA.

Despite the importance of executive function (EF) in both clinical and 
educational contexts, the aetiology of individual differences in early childhood 
EF remains poorly understood. This study provides the first longitudinal 
intergenerational analysis of mother-child EF associations during early 
childhood. A group of children and their mothers (n = 62) completed 
age-appropriate EF tasks. Mother and child EFs were modestly correlated by 
24 months of age, and this association was stable through 48 months. 
Importantly, maternal-child EF associations were still robust after controlling 
for verbal ability (potential indicator of verbal/crystallized intelligence) and 
maternal education (correlate of socio-economic status and verbal intelligence). 
Potential implications of these findings as well as underlying mechanisms of the 
maternal-child EF association (gene-environment interplay) are discussed.

© 2013 The British Psychological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/bjdp.12021
PMCID: PMC4187223
PMID: 25284715 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1621. Appl Neuropsychol Adult. 2015;22(1):1-6. doi: 10.1080/23279095.2013.816702. Epub 
2013 Nov 12.

Apparently abnormal Wechsler Memory Scale index score patterns in the normal 
population.

Carrasco RM(1), Grups J, Evans B, Simco E, Mittenberg W.

Author information:
(1)a Center for Psychological Studies, Nova Southeastern University , Ft. 
Lauderdale , Florida.

Interpretation of the Wechsler Memory Scale-Fourth Edition may involve 
examination of multiple memory index score contrasts and similar comparisons 
with Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Fourth Edition ability indexes. 
Standardization sample data suggest that 15-point differences between any 
specific pair of index scores are relatively uncommon in normal individuals, but 
these base rates refer to a comparison between a single pair of indexes rather 
than multiple simultaneous comparisons among indexes. This study provides 
normative data for the occurrence of multiple index score differences calculated 
by using Monte Carlo simulations and validated against standardization data. 
Differences of 15 points between any two memory indexes or between memory and 
ability indexes occurred in 60% and 48% of the normative sample, respectively. 
Wechsler index score discrepancies are normally common and therefore not 
clinically meaningful when numerous such comparisons are made. Explicit prior 
interpretive hypotheses are necessary to reduce the number of index comparisons 
and associated false-positive conclusions. Monte Carlo simulation accurately 
predicts these false-positive rates.

DOI: 10.1080/23279095.2013.816702
PMID: 25529585 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1622. Appl Neuropsychol Adult. 2015;22(1):42-5. doi: 10.1080/23279095.2013.828726. 
Epub 2013 Dec 5.

WAIS-IV administration errors: effects of altered response requirements on 
Symbol Search and violation of standard surface-variety patterns on Block 
Design.

Ryan JJ(1), Swopes-Willhite N, Franklin C, Kreiner DS.

Author information:
(1)a Department of Psychological Science , University of Central Missouri , 
Warrensburg , Missouri.

This study utilized a sample of 50 college students to assess the possibility 
that responding to the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Fourth Edition 
(WAIS-IV) Symbol Search subtest items with an "x" instead of a "single slash 
mark" would affect performance. A second sample of 50 college students was used 
to assess the impact on WAIS-IV Block Design performance of presenting all the 
items with only red surfaces facing up. The modified Symbol Search and Block 
Design administrations yielded mean scaled scores and raw scores that did not 
differ significantly from mean scores obtained with standard administrations. 
Findings should not be generalized beyond healthy, well-educated young adults.

DOI: 10.1080/23279095.2013.828726
PMID: 25529590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1623. CASK Disorders.

Moog U(1), Kutsche K(2).

In: Adam MP, Feldman J, Mirzaa GM, Pagon RA, Wallace SE, Bean LJH, Gripp KW, 
Amemiya A, editors. GeneReviews(®) [Internet]. Seattle (WA): University of 
Washington, Seattle; 1993–2023.
2013 Nov 26 [updated 2020 May 21].

Author information:
(1)Institute of Human Genetics, Heidelberg University, Heidelberg, Germany
(2)Institute of Human Genetics, University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, 
Hamburg, Germany

CLINICAL CHARACTERISTICS: CASK disorders include a spectrum of phenotypes in 
both females and males. Two main types of clinical presentation are seen: 
Microcephaly with pontine and cerebellar hypoplasia (MICPCH), generally 
associated with pathogenic loss-of-function variants in CASK. X-linked 
intellectual disability (XLID) with or without nystagmus, generally associated 
with hypomorphic CASK pathogenic variants. MICPCH is typically seen in females 
with moderate-to-severe intellectual disability, progressive microcephaly with 
or without ophthalmologic anomalies, and sensorineural hearing loss. Most are 
able to sit independently; 20%-25% attain the ability to walk; language is 
nearly absent in most. Neurologic features may include axial hypotonia, 
hypertonia/spasticity of the extremities, and dystonia or other movement 
disorders. Nearly 40% have seizures by age ten years. Behaviors may include 
sleep disturbances, hand stereotypies, and self biting. MICPCH in males may 
occur with or without severe epileptic encephalopathy in addition to 
severe-to-profound developmental delay. When seizures are present they occur 
early and may be intractable. In individuals and families with milder (i.e., 
hypomorphic) pathogenic variants, the clinical phenotype is usually that of XLID 
with or without nystagmus and additional clinical features. Males have 
mild-to-severe intellectual disability, with or without nystagmus and other 
ocular features. Females typically have normal intelligence with some displaying 
mild-to-severe intellectual disability with or without ocular features.
DIAGNOSIS/TESTING: The diagnosis of a CASK disorder is established in a female 
who is heterozygous for a CASK pathogenic variant and in a male who is 
hemizygous for a CASK pathogenic variant on molecular genetic testing. Rarely, 
affected males have a mosaic pathogenic variant.
MANAGEMENT: Treatment of manifestations: Treatment is symptomatic and includes 
standard management of developmental delay and intellectual disability issues; 
medication for seizures; nutritional support; use of physiotherapy; and 
treatment of abnormal vision or hearing loss.
GENETIC COUNSELING: CASK disorders are inherited in an X-linked manner. Risk to 
the family members of a proband with a CASK disorder depends on the phenotype 
(i.e., MICPCH or XLID ± nystagmus) in the proband. MICPCH. Most affected females 
and males represent simplex cases (i.e., the only affected family member) and 
have the disorder as the result of a de novo CASK pathogenic variant. Because 
heterozygous females manifest the phenotype, an asymptomatic mother is unlikely 
to be heterozygous for the CASK pathogenic variant. If a proband represents a 
simplex case, the recurrence risk to sibs appears to be low but greater than 
that of the general population because of the possibility of parental germline 
mosaicism. XLID ± nystagmus. The father of a male with a CASK disorder will not 
have the disorder nor will he be hemizygous for the CASK pathogenic variant. If 
a male is the only affected family member, the mother may be a heterozygote or 
the affected male may have a de novo pathogenic variant. In a family with more 
than one affected individual, the mother of an affected male is an obligate 
heterozygote. If the mother of the proband has a CASK pathogenic variant, the 
chance of transmitting it in each pregnancy is 50%: males who inherit the 
pathogenic variant will be affected; females who inherit the pathogenic variant 
will typically be asymptomatic but may have a range of manifestations. If the 
CASK pathogenic variant cannot be detected in maternal leukocyte DNA, the risk 
to sibs is greater than that of the general population because of the 
possibility of parental germline mosaicism. Once the CASK pathogenic variant has 
been identified in an affected family member, prenatal testing for a pregnancy 
at increased risk and preimplantation genetic testing for a CASK disorder are 
possible.

Copyright © 1993-2023, University of Washington, Seattle. GeneReviews is a 
registered trademark of the University of Washington, Seattle. All rights 
reserved.

PMID: 24278995