

1. Assessment. 2014 Feb;21(1):119-28. doi: 10.1177/1073191112437594. Epub 2012 Feb 
20.

Nonverbal cognitive development in children with cochlear implants: relationship 
between the Mullen Scales of Early Learning and later performance on the Leiter 
International Performance Scales-Revised.

Caudle SE(1), Katzenstein JM, Oghalai JS, Lin J, Caudle DD.

Author information:
(1)Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX, USA.

Methodologically, longitudinal assessment of cognitive development in young 
children has proven difficult because few measures span infancy through school 
age. This matter is further complicated when the child presents with a sensory 
deficit such as hearing loss. Few measures are validated in this population, and 
children who are evaluated for cochlear implantation are often reevaluated 
annually. The authors sought to evaluate the predictive validity of subscales of 
the Mullen Scales of Early Learning (MSEL) on Leiter International Performance 
Scales-Revised (LIPS-R) Full-Scale IQ scores. To further elucidate the 
relationship of these two measures, comparisons were also made with the Vineland 
Adaptive Behavior Scale-Second Edition (VABS), which provides a measure of 
adaptive functioning across the life span. Participants included 35 children (14 
female, 21 male) who were evaluated both as part of the precandidacy process for 
cochlear implantation using the MSEL and VABS and following implantation with 
the LIPS-R and VABS. Hierarchical linear regression revealed that the MSEL 
Visual Reception subdomain score significantly predicted 52% of the variance in 
LIPS-R Full-Scale IQ scores at follow-up, F(1, 34) = 35.80, p < .0001, R (2) = 
.52, β = .72. This result suggests that the Visual Reception subscale offers 
predictive validity of later LIPS-R Full-Scale IQ scores. The VABS was also 
significantly correlated with cognitive variables at each time point.

DOI: 10.1177/1073191112437594
PMCID: PMC3683075
PMID: 22353228 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting Interests The authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


2. J Learn Disabil. 2014 Mar-Apr;47(2):116-24. doi: 10.1177/0022219412439325. Epub 
2012 Mar 21.

Academic procrastination, emotional intelligence, academic self-efficacy, and 
GPA: a comparison between students with and without learning disabilities.

Hen M(1), Goroshit M.

Author information:
(1)1Tel-Hai College, Upper Galilie, Israel.

Academic procrastination has been seen as an impediment to students' academic 
success. Research findings suggest that it is related to lower levels of 
self-regulated learning and academic self-efficacy and associated with higher 
levels of anxiety, stress, and illness. Emotional intelligence (EI) is the 
ability to assess, regulate, and utilize emotions and has been found to be 
associated with academic self-efficacy and a variety of better outcomes, 
including academic performance. Students with learning disabilities (LD) are 
well acquainted with academic difficulty and maladaptive academic behavior. In 
comparison to students without LD, they exhibit high levels of learned 
helplessness, including diminished persistence, lower academic expectations, and 
negative affect. This study examined the relationships among academic 
procrastination, EI, and academic performance as mediated by academic 
self-efficacy in 287 LD and non-LD students. Results indicated that the indirect 
effect of EI on academic procrastination and GPA was stronger in LD students 
than in non-LD students. In addition, results indicated that LD students scored 
lower than non-LD students on both EI and academic self-efficacy and higher on 
academic procrastination. No difference was found in GPA.

DOI: 10.1177/0022219412439325
PMID: 22442254 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. J Atten Disord. 2014 Jul;18(5):466-78. doi: 10.1177/1087054712441832. Epub 2012 
Apr 16.

Developmental delays in children with ADHD.

Dyck MJ(1), Piek JP(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Applied Psychology, Griffith University, Gold Coast, Queensland, 
Australia m.dyck@griffith.edu.au.
(2)School of Psychology and Speech Pathology, Curtin University, Perth, Western 
Australia.

OBJECTIVE: ADHD is often comorbid with other disorders, but it is often assumed 
that academic, language, or motor c skills problems are secondary to ADHD rather 
than that attention problems are secondary to the other disorder or both 
disorders have a shared etiology. We assessed for comorbid developmental 
disorders and which cognitive processes were impaired in children with ADHD.
METHOD: Measures of intelligence, language, motor skills, social cognition, and 
executive functions were administered to children with ADHD (n = 53) and 
age/sex-matched typical children.
RESULTS: Clinically significant deficits were 2 to 7 times as common in children 
with ADHD as in typical children, and the structure of ability differed in the 
two groups. Abilities were less differentiated in children with ADHD.
CONCLUSION: The results indicate a need for comprehensive screening for 
developmental disorders in children with ADHD and imply that research needs to 
focus on how ADHD and developmental disorders may share an etiology.

© 2012 SAGE Publications.

DOI: 10.1177/1087054712441832
PMID: 22508756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. J Relig Health. 2014 Feb;53(1):79-85. doi: 10.1007/s10943-012-9602-0.

Study of the spiritual intelligence role in predicting university students' 
quality of life.

Bolghan-Abadi M(1), Ghofrani F, Abde-Khodaei MS.

Author information:
(1)Psychology Department, Faculty of Educational Sciences and Psychology, 
Ferdowsi University of Mashhad, 9177948991, Mashhad, Iran, mbolghan@gmail.com.

The aim of the study is to investigate the spiritual intelligence role in 
predicting Quchan University students' quality of life. In order to collect 
data, a sample of 143 students of Quechan University was selected randomly 
enrolled for 89-90 academic year. The instruments of the data collecting are 
World Health Organization Quality of Life (WHOQOL) and Spiritual Intelligence 
Questionnaire. For analyzing the data, the standard deviation, and Pearson's 
correlation coefficient in descriptive level, and in inferential level, the 
regression test was used. The results of the study show that the spiritual 
intelligence has effective role on predicting quality of life.

DOI: 10.1007/s10943-012-9602-0
PMID: 22528289 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. J Atten Disord. 2014 Oct;18(7):607-16. doi: 10.1177/1087054712445483. Epub 2012 
May 31.

ADHD predominantly inattentive subtype with high sluggish cognitive tempo: a new 
clinical entity?

Capdevila-Brophy C(1), Artigas-Pallarés J(2), Navarro-Pastor JB(3), 
García-Nonell K(2), Rigau-Ratera E(2), Obiols JE(3).

Author information:
(1)Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Bellaterra, Spain 
DraConnieCapdevila@copc.cat.
(2)Corporació Sanitària Parc Taulí de Sabadell, Spain.
(3)Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Bellaterra, Spain.

OBJECTIVE: The authors investigate differences in the neuropsychological and 
behavioral profiles of two groups of children with ADHD, one with predominantly 
inattentive subtype of ADHD (PI) and high sluggish cognitive tempo (SCT; n = 19) 
and another formed by the rest of the sample (children with ADHD combined 
subtype and children with PI and low SCT scores; n = 68).
METHOD: Instruments included Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children and 
subtests from Developmental Neuropsychological Assessment, Conners' Continuous 
Performance Test, Behavior Rating Inventory of Executive Function, and 
Achenbach's Child Behavior Checklist for ages 6 to 18.
RESULTS: PI with high SCT had fewer problems with sustained attention, and more 
internalizing problems, anxiety/depression, and withdrawn/depressed behavior, 
and more executive problems with self-monitoring than the rest of the ADHD 
sample.
CONCLUSION: This study supports revising subtype's criteria and further studying 
the hypothesis that ADHD with high SCT constitutes a separate clinical entity.

© 2012 SAGE Publications.

DOI: 10.1177/1087054712445483
PMID: 22653808 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Ment Illn. 2014 Mar 19;4(1):e5. doi: 10.4081/mi.2012.e5. eCollection 2012 Jul 
26.

Psychological aspects in children affected by duchenne de boulogne muscular 
dystrophy.

Filippo TD(1), Parisi L(1), Roccella M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Palermo , Italy.

Impairment of intelligence in Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) patients was 
described by Duchenne de Boulogne himself in 1868. Further studies report 
intelligence disorders with mayor impairment of memory. The aim of the present 
study was to assess the presence of affective and personality disorders in a 
group of children affected by DMD. Twenty six male DMD patients, mean age eleven 
and four months years old, were assessed for their affective and personality 
disorder. Only eight subjects had a total IQ below average with major 
difficulties in verbal and visual-spatial memory, comprehension, arithmetic and 
vocabulary. All the subjects presented some disorders: tendency to 
marginalization and isolation, self-depreciation, sense of insecurity, 
hypochondriac thoughts and marked state of anxiety. These disorders are often a 
dynamic prolongation of a psychological process which starts when the diagnosis 
is made and continues, in a slow and latent fashion, throughout the evolution of 
the disease.

DOI: 10.4081/mi.2012.e5
PMCID: PMC4253365
PMID: 25478112

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: the authors report no 
conflicts of interest.


7. J Learn Disabil. 2014 May-Jun;47(3):224-36. doi: 10.1177/0022219412453172. Epub 
2012 Aug 18.

Global, broad, or specific cognitive differences? Using a MIMIC model to examine 
differences in CHC abilities in children with learning disabilities.

Niileksela CR(1), Reynolds MR.

Author information:
(1)1University of Kansas, Lawrence, KS, USA.

This study was designed to better understand the relations between learning 
disabilities and different levels of latent cognitive abilities, including 
general intelligence (g), broad cognitive abilities, and specific abilities 
based on the Cattell-Horn-Carroll theory of intelligence (CHC theory). Data from 
the Differential Ability Scales-Second Edition (DAS-II) were used to create a 
multiple-indicator multiple cause model to examine the latent mean differences 
in cognitive abilities between children with and without learning disabilities 
in reading (LD reading), math (LD math), and reading and writing(LD reading and 
writing). Statistically significant differences were found in the g factor 
between the norm group and the LD groups. After controlling for differences in 
g, the LD reading and LD reading and writing groups showed relatively lower 
latent processing speed, and the LD math group showed relatively higher latent 
comprehension-knowledge. There were also some differences in some specific 
cognitive abilities, including lower scores in spatial relations and numerical 
facility for the LD math group, and lower scores in visual memory for the LD 
reading and writing group. These specific mean differences were above and beyond 
any differences in the latent cognitive factor means.

DOI: 10.1177/0022219412453172
PMID: 22907885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Hum Brain Mapp. 2014 Jan;35(1):309-18. doi: 10.1002/hbm.22177. Epub 2012 Sep 11.

Structural integrity of the corpus callosum predicts long-term transfer of fluid 
intelligence-related training gains in normal aging.

Wolf D(1), Fischer FU, Fesenbeckh J, Yakushev I, Lelieveld IM, Scheurich A, 
Schermuly I, Zschutschke L, Fellgiebel A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University Medical Center Mainz, 
Untere Zahlbacher Str. 8, Mainz, Germany.

Although cognitive training usually improves cognitive test performance, the 
capability to transfer these training gains into respective or functionally 
related cognitive domains varies significantly. Since most studies demonstrate 
rather limited transfer effects in older adults, aging might be an important 
factor in transfer capability differences. This study investigated the transfer 
capability of logical reasoning training gains to a measure of Fluid 
Intelligence (Gf) in relation to age, general intelligence, and brain structural 
integrity as measured by diffusion tensor imaging. In a group of 41 highly 
educated healthy elderly, 71% demonstrated successful transfer immediately after 
a 4-week training session (i.e. short-term transfer). In a subgroup of 22% of 
subjects transfer maintained over a 3-month follow-up period (i.e. long-term 
transfer). While short-term transfer was not related to structural integrity, 
long-term transfer was associated with increased structural integrity in corpus 
and genu of the corpus callosum. Since callosal structural integrity was also 
related to age (in the present and foregoing studies), previously observed 
associations between age and transfer might be moderated by the structural 
integrity. Surprisingly, age was not directly associated with transfer in this 
study which could be explained by the multi-dependency of the structural 
integrity (modulating factors beside age, e.g. genetics). In this highly 
educated sample, general intelligence was not related to transfer suggesting 
that high intelligence is not sufficient for transfer in normal aging. Further 
studies are needed to reveal the interaction of transfer, age, and structural 
integrity and delineate mechanisms of age-dependent transfer capabilities.

Copyright © 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/hbm.22177
PMCID: PMC6869693
PMID: 22965837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. Addict Biol. 2014 May;19(3):415-26. doi: 10.1111/j.1369-1600.2012.00497.x. Epub 
2012 Sep 14.

Re-appraisal of negative emotions in cocaine dependence: dysfunctional 
corticolimbic activation and connectivity.

Albein-Urios N(1), Verdejo-Román J, Asensio S, Soriano-Mas C, Martínez-González 
JM, Verdejo-García A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Psychology, Universidad de Granada, Spain.

Cocaine dependence is associated with pronounced elevations of negative affect 
and deficient regulation of negative emotions. We aimed to investigate the 
neural substrates of negative emotion regulation in cocaine-dependent 
individuals (CDI), as compared to non-drug-using controls, using functional 
magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) during a re-appraisal task. Seventeen CDI 
abstinent for at least 15 days and without other psychiatric co-morbidities and 
18 intelligence quotient-matched non-drug-using controls participated in the 
study. Participants performed the re-appraisal task during fMRI scanning: they 
were exposed to 24 blocks of negative affective or neutral pictures that they 
should Observe (neutral pictures), Maintain (sustain the emotion elicited by 
negative pictures) or Suppress (regulate the emotion elicited by negative 
pictures through previously trained re-appraisal techniques). Task-related 
activations during two conditions of interest (Maintain>Observe and 
Suppress>Maintain) were analyzed using the general linear model in SPM8 
software. We also performed psychophysiological interaction (PPI) seed-based 
analyses based on one region from each condition: the dorsolateral prefrontal 
cortex (dlPFC-Maintain>Observe) and the inferior frontal gyrus 
(IFG-Suppress>Maintain). Results showed that cocaine users had increased right 
dlPFC and bilateral temporoparietal junction activations during 
Maintain>Observe, whereas they showed decreased right IFG, posterior cingulate 
cortex, insula and fusiform gyrus activations during Suppress>Maintain. PPI 
analyses showed that cocaine users had increased functional coupling between the 
dlPFC and emotion-related regions during Maintain>Observe, whereas they showed 
decreased functional coupling between the right IFG and the amygdala during 
Suppress>Maintain. These findings indicate that CDI have dysfunctional 
corticolimbic activation and connectivity during negative emotion experience and 
re-appraisal.

© 2012 The Authors, Addiction Biology © 2012 Society for the Study of Addiction.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1369-1600.2012.00497.x
PMID: 22978709 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. J Learn Disabil. 2014 May-Jun;47(3):271-8. doi: 10.1177/0022219412461052. Epub 
2012 Sep 26.

The effect of grade norms in college students: using the Woodcock-Johnson III 
Tests of Achievement.

Cressman MN(1), Liljequist L.

Author information:
(1)1Behavior Associates, LLC, Owensboro, KY, USA.

The Woodcock-Johnson III Tests of Achievement grade norms versus age norms were 
examined in the calculation of discrepancy scores in 202 college students. 
Difference scores were calculated between the Wechsler Adult Intelligence 
Scale-3rd Edition Full Scale IQ and the Woodcock-Johnson III Total Achievement, 
Broad Reading, Math, and Written Language scores. The proportion meeting the 
substantial discrepancy criterion of two standard deviations plus or minus the 
standard error of the difference between means was 7.9% using age norms and 
37.6% using grade norms. Using mixed analyses of variance, the authors found 
main effects for type of norm for all difference scores, with grade norms 
yielding significantly higher difference scores than age norms. A main effect 
for student status (traditional-age students n = 124, non-traditional-age 
students n = 78) was found for Total Achievement, Broad Reading, and Math such 
that traditional-age students had greater discrepancies. Discrepancy scores are 
contrasted with absolute scores (SS < 85) in the identification of learning 
disabilities as well. Implications of using grade versus age norms are 
discussed.

DOI: 10.1177/0022219412461052
PMID: 23019071 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. Dis Esophagus. 2014 Aug;27(6):538-46. doi: 10.1111/j.1442-2050.2012.01443.x. 
Epub 2012 Nov 2.

Psychological modulation in patients surgically intervened for gastroesophageal 
reflux disease.

Lara FJ(1), Carranque G, Oehling H, Hernández JM, Oliva H.

Author information:
(1)Digestive Surgery Department, Antequera Hospital, Málaga, Spain.

Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) has been related with certain 
psychological dimensions. The influence of mood, emotional intelligence, and 
perceived quality of life on clinical symptoms and outcome of antireflux surgery 
was evaluated in GERD patients with and without hiatal hernia. The study 
included 61 patients who were diagnosed with GERD between 2003 and 2008: 16 of 
them without hiatal hernia (group A) and 45 of them with hiatal hernia (group 
B). All of these patients had undergone laparoscopic antireflux surgery. 
Patients were clinically examined and evaluated with the following instruments: 
Short Form (SF)-36 Health Survey, Gastrointestinal Quality of Life Index, 
Hospital Anxiety and Depression (HAD) Scale, and Trait Meta-Mood Scale 
(TMMS)-24. Proportions were compared by using the chi-squared test; averages 
were compared by using the Student's t-test (with Bonferroni's correction). In 
general, our patients intervened for GERD showed results lower than normal or 
close to the lower limit of normal in the administered tests. Patients in the 
group without hernia were younger (P < 0.001) and with lower American Society of 
Anaesthesiologists risk. They showed higher scores in the SF-36 dimensions: 
Physical Functioning, Physical Role and Emotional Role, and lower scores in the 
Social Role (P < 0.001). They showed lower scores in the Emotional dimension of 
Gastrointestinal Quality of Life Index (P = 0.0068) and worse results in the 
Hospital Anxiety and Depression subscales of Anxiety (P < 0.001) and Depression 
(not significant). Men in the group without hernia showed higher scores than men 
in the group with hernia in the TMMS subscales corresponding to Emotional 
Clarity and Emotional Repair (P < 0.001). Women in the group with hernia showed 
higher scores than women in the group without hernia regarding Emotional Clarity 
(P = 0.0012). GERD patients showed poor results in all the tests, and patients 
without hiatal hernia compared with patients with hernia showed higher levels of 
anxiety, which interfered with their social life. Moreover, they showed lower 
tolerance to stress and higher frustration, fear, and worry. On the basis of 
such unfavorable phychoemotional results observed with GERD patients (especially 
those without hernia) in the different tests, we propose that improving our 
knowledge of the psychological profile of GERD patients - particularly those 
without hiatal hernia - could help in designing individualized medical and 
psychological therapies and increase success rates.

© 2012 Copyright the Authors. Journal compilation © 2012, Wiley Periodicals, 
Inc. and the International Society for Diseases of the Esophagus.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1442-2050.2012.01443.x
PMID: 23121479 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. Soc Cogn Affect Neurosci. 2014 Mar;9(3):265-72. doi: 10.1093/scan/nss124. Epub 
2012 Nov 19.

Distributed neural system for emotional intelligence revealed by lesion mapping.

Barbey AK(1), Colom R, Grafman J.

Author information:
(1)Decision Neuroscience Lab, Beckman Institute for Advanced Science and 
Technology, University of Illinois, Champaign, IL 61820. barbey@illinois.edu.

Cognitive neuroscience has made considerable progress in understanding the 
neural architecture of human intelligence, identifying a broadly distributed 
network of frontal and parietal regions that support goal-directed, intelligent 
behavior. However, the contributions of this network to social and emotional 
aspects of intellectual function remain to be well characterized. Here we 
investigated the neural basis of emotional intelligence in 152 patients with 
focal brain injuries using voxel-based lesion-symptom mapping. Latent variable 
modeling was applied to obtain measures of emotional intelligence, general 
intelligence and personality from the Mayer, Salovey, Caruso Emotional 
Intelligence Test (MSCEIT), the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale and the 
Neuroticism-Extroversion-Openness Inventory, respectively. Regression analyses 
revealed that latent scores for measures of general intelligence and personality 
reliably predicted latent scores for emotional intelligence. Lesion mapping 
results further indicated that these convergent processes depend on a shared 
network of frontal, temporal and parietal brain regions. The results support an 
integrative framework for understanding the architecture of executive, social 
and emotional processes and make specific recommendations for the interpretation 
and application of the MSCEIT to the study of emotional intelligence in health 
and disease.

DOI: 10.1093/scan/nss124
PMCID: PMC3980800
PMID: 23171618 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13. Health Psychol. 2014 Mar;33(3):292-6. doi: 10.1037/a0030727. Epub 2012 Dec 3.

Forty years on: childhood intelligence predicts health in middle adulthood.

Wrulich M(1), Brunner M(1), Stadler G(2), Schalke D(1), Keller U(1), Martin 
R(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Educational Measurement and Applied Cognitive Science, University 
of Luxembourg.
(2)Psychology Department, Columbia University.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate whether childhood general intelligence, fluid 
intelligence (Gf), and crystallized intelligence (Gc) predict various health 
outcomes in middle adulthood.
METHOD: This prospective longitudinal study followed a nationally representative 
sample of 717 Luxembourgers. Intelligence and socioeconomic status (SES) were 
measured at age 12; physical, functional, and subjective health were assessed at 
age 52.
RESULTS: Childhood general intelligence and fluid intelligence showed 
substantial positive effects on adult health outcomes, whereas the corresponding 
effects of crystallized intelligence were considerably smaller.
CONCLUSION: Childhood intelligence incrementally predicts various dimensions of 
adult health across 40 years-even in a country in which all citizens are 
guaranteed access to high-quality health care.

PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/a0030727
PMID: 23205542 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. Child Neuropsychol. 2014;20(1):49-59. doi: 10.1080/09297049.2012.741225. Epub 
2012 Dec 10.

Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children-fourth edition (WISC-IV) short-form 
validity: a comparison study in pediatric epilepsy.

Hrabok M(1), Brooks BL, Fay-McClymont TB, Sherman EM.

Author information:
(1)a Alberta Health Services and Alberta Children's Hospital Research Institute 
, Calgary , Alberta , Canada.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this article was to investigate the accuracy of the 
WISC-IV short forms in estimating Full Scale Intelligence Quotient (FSIQ) and 
General Ability Index (GAI) in pediatric epilepsy.
METHODS: One hundred and four children with epilepsy completed the WISC-IV as 
part of a neuropsychological assessment at a tertiary-level children's hospital. 
The clinical accuracy of eight short forms was assessed in two ways: (a) 
accuracy within +/- 5 index points of FSIQ and (b) the clinical classification 
rate according to Wechsler conventions. The sample was further subdivided into 
low FSIQ (≤ 80) and high FSIQ (> 80).
RESULTS: All short forms were significantly correlated with FSIQ. Seven-subtest 
(Crawford et al. [2010] FSIQ) and 5-subtest (BdSiCdVcLn) short forms yielded the 
highest clinical accuracy rates (77%-89%). Overall, a 2-subtest (VcMr) short 
form yielded the lowest clinical classification rates for FSIQ (35%-63%). The 
short form yielding the most accurate estimate of GAI was VcSiMrBd (73%-84%).
CONCLUSIONS: Short forms show promise as useful estimates. The 7-subtest 
(Crawford et al., 2010) and 5-subtest (BdSiVcLnCd) short forms yielded the most 
accurate estimates of FSIQ. VcSiMrBd yielded the most accurate estimate of GAI. 
Clinical recommendations are provided for use of short forms in pediatric 
epilepsy.

DOI: 10.1080/09297049.2012.741225
PMID: 23216421 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. J Autism Dev Disord. 2014 Oct;44(10):2383-91. doi: 10.1007/s10803-012-1743-1.

Reactive aggression among children with and without autism spectrum disorder.

Kaartinen M(1), Puura K, Helminen M, Salmelin R, Pelkonen E, Juujärvi P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Child Psychiatry, Tampere University Hospital, Box 2000, 33521, 
Tampere, Finland, miia.kaartinen@fimnet.fi.

Erratum in
    J Autism Dev Disord. 2017 Jun;47(6):1923-1924.

Twenty-seven boys and eight girls with ASD and thirty-five controls matched for 
gender, age and total score intelligence were studied to ascertain whether boys 
and girls with ASD display stronger reactive aggression than boys and girls 
without ASD. Participants performed a computerized version of the Pulkkinen 
aggression machine that examines the intensity of reactive aggression against 
attackers of varying gender and age. Relative to the control group boys, the 
boys with ASD reacted with more serious forms of aggression when subjected to 
mild aggressive attacks and did not consider a child attacker's opposite sex an 
inhibitory factor. The girls with ASD, on the other hand, reacted less 
aggressively than the girls without ASD. According to the results boys with ASD 
may not follow the typical development in cognitive regulation of reactive 
aggression.

DOI: 10.1007/s10803-012-1743-1
PMID: 23263769 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. J Child Neurol. 2014 Jan;29(1):66-70. doi: 10.1177/0883073812469295. Epub 2012 
Dec 26.

Disorganization as related to discoordination and attention deficit.

Lifshitz N(1), Josman N, Tirosh E.

Author information:
(1)1Department of Occupational Therapy, Joint Program, Faculty of Social Welfare 
and Health Sciences, University of Haifa and Technion, Haifa, Israel.

Our objective was to examine the association of attention deficit and 
disorganization in boys with and without specific developmental disorder of 
motor function. Four groups of boys between the age of 7 and 12 years-(1) 
Disorganization + coordination disorder (n = 30); (2) Coordination disorder (n = 
33); (3) Disorganization (n = 28); and (4) Control (n = 29)-were included. 
Teachers completed the Questionnaire for Assessing the Students' Organizational 
Abilities for the Teacher and the Conners' Teachers Rating Scale-Revised. The 
Movement Assessment Battery for Children and 2 subscales of an intelligence test 
(vocabulary and similarities) were administered. A significantly increased rate 
of attention deficit in children with organizational deficit was identified. 
Attention deficit in children with specific motor disorder was exclusively 
associated with an organizational deficit. Organizational deficit in childhood 
is highly associated with attention deficit, and this association is 
particularly relevant in children with specific coordination disorder.

DOI: 10.1177/0883073812469295
PMID: 23271761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. N Z Med J. 2014 Mar 7;127(1390):13-22.

Pacific Islands Families Study: depressive symptoms in 9-year-old Pacific 
children living in New Zealand.

Paterson J(1), Lusitini L, Taylor S.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health and Psychosocial Studies, AUT University, 90 Akoranga 
Drive, Northcote, Auckland, New Zealand. Janis.paterson@aut.ac.nz.

Comment in
    N Z Med J. 2014 Mar 7;127(1390):6-9.

AIM: This study investigated associations between individual, maternal, cultural 
and socio-demographic variables with symptoms of child depression in 9-year-old 
Pacific children living in New Zealand.
METHOD: The longitudinal Pacific Islands Families (PIF) Study is following a 
cohort of Pacific children born in Auckland, New Zealand, in 2000. At 
approximately 9 years postpartum, child self-reports (n=858) of depressive 
symptoms were gathered.
RESULTS: Being a victim or perpetrator of bullying, previous internalising 
behaviour problems and low maternal education were significantly associated with 
high child depression scores. Low depression scores were associated with 
children's positive perception of self, physical abilities, parental and peer 
relationships, high verbal intelligence, and high performance at school.
CONCLUSION: These findings indicate that building up child self-esteem and 
supportive relationships around the child are likely to reduce the risk of 
depression and these strengths may mitigate against bullying involvement.

PMID: 24670585 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. Schizophr Bull. 2014 Jan;40(1):143-51. doi: 10.1093/schbul/sbs157. Epub 2012 Dec 
30.

Risk of adult schizophrenia and its relationship to childhood IQ in the 1958 
British birth cohort.

Schulz J(1), Sundin J, Leask S, Done DJ.

Author information:
(1)To whom correspondence should be addressed; Centre for Life Span and Chronic 
Illness Research, School of Psychology, University of Hertfordshire, Hatfield, 
Hertfordshire AL10 9AB, UK; tel: +44 (0)1707286292, fax: +44 1707285104, e-mail: 
d.j.done@herts.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: An inverse relationship between risk of schizophrenia and premorbid 
IQ is a robust empirical finding. Cognitive impairment may be a core feature of 
schizophrenia in addition to the clinical symptoms that have historically 
defined the disorder.
AIMS: To evaluate whether risk of schizophrenia increases linearly or 
nonlinearly with the lowering of premorbid IQ after adjustment for a range of 
confounding factors.
METHODS: IQ data from the 1958 National Child Development Study, a prospective 
national birth cohort (n = 17 419), were linked with psychiatric admissions in 
England and Wales over a 20-year period. Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of 
Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition diagnoses were derived from case notes.
RESULTS: A clear nonlinear inverse relationship between general intelligence at 
ages 7 and 11 and risk of adult psychosis was found even after adjustment for 
potential social, behavioral, or demographic confounding factors. No such 
relationship was found for affective disorders.
CONCLUSIONS: The nonlinear relationship suggests an excess risk of schizophrenia 
in children with premorbid IQ in the learning disabilities range. Previous 
reports of a linear relationship are likely to be a result of less sensitive 
statistical methods for detecting nonlinearity.

DOI: 10.1093/schbul/sbs157
PMCID: PMC3885293
PMID: 23277615 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. Early Interv Psychiatry. 2014 Feb;8(1):32-8. doi: 10.1111/eip.12029. Epub 2013 
Jan 24.

Cognitive remediation in schizophrenia: efficacy and effectiveness in patients 
with early versus long-term course of illness.

Bowie CR(1), Grossman M, Gupta M, Oyewumi LK, Harvey PD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Queen's University, Kingston, Ontario, Canada; 
Department of Psychiatry, Queen's University, Kingston, Ontario, Canada; Centre 
for Neuroscience Studies, Queen's University, Kingston, Ontario, Canada.

AIM: We examined the efficacy and effectiveness (transfer to functional 
competence and everyday functioning) of cognitive remediation in early-course 
(within 5 years of first episode) and long-term (more than 15 years of illness) 
schizophrenia.
METHODS: Treatment lasted 12 weeks and included computerized exercises, 
strategic monitoring and methods to transfer cognition to behaviour. Assessments 
included a standard battery of neurocognition, performance-based measures of 
social and adaptive competence, and case manager ratings of real-world 
functional behaviour. Changes from baseline to post-treatment were examined with 
repeated measures analysis of variance and estimated premorbid intelligence and 
total months in hospital as covariates.
RESULTS: The early-course group had larger improvements in measures of 
processing speed and executive functions, as well as larger improvements in 
adaptive competence and real-world work skills. Duration of illness was 
inversely associated with improvement in neurocognition and real-world work 
skills.
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment of cognitive impairments is feasible in both early-course 
and chronic schizophrenia, but the clinical meaningfulness and generalization to 
functioning appear to be more substantial when delivered early. Cognitive 
remediation should be considered a tool for early intervention in schizophrenia.

© 2013 Wiley Publishing Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/eip.12029
PMID: 23343011 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. Mol Psychiatry. 2014 Feb;19(2):253-8. doi: 10.1038/mp.2012.184. Epub 2013 Jan 
29.

Childhood intelligence is heritable, highly polygenic and associated with 
FNBP1L.

Benyamin B(1), Pourcain B(2), Davis OS(3), Davies G(4), Hansell NK(5), Brion 
MJ(6), Kirkpatrick RM(7), Cents RA(8), Franić S(9), Miller MB(7), Haworth CM(3), 
Meaburn E(10), Price TS(3), Evans DM(2), Timpson N(2), Kemp J(2), Ring S(2), 
McArdle W(2), Medland SE(5), Yang J(11), Harris SE(12), Liewald DC(13), Scheet 
P(9), Xiao X(14), Hudziak JJ(15), de Geus EJ(9); Wellcome Trust Case Control 
Consortium 2 (WTCCC2); Jaddoe VW(16), Starr JM(17), Verhulst FC(18), Pennell 
C(19), Tiemeier H(20), Iacono WG(7), Palmer LJ(21), Montgomery GW(5), Martin 
NG(5), Boomsma DI(9), Posthuma D(22), McGue M(23), Wright MJ(5), Davey Smith 
G(2), Deary IJ(13), Plomin R(3), Visscher PM(24).

Author information:
(1)1] The University of Queensland, Queensland Brain Institute, St Lucia, 
Queensland, Australia [2] Queensland Institute of Medical Research, Brisbane, 
Queensland, Australia.
(2)Medical Research Council Centre for Causal Analyses in Translational 
Epidemiology, University of Bristol, Bristol, UK.
(3)King's College London, Social, Genetic and Developmental Psychiatry Centre, 
Institute of Psychiatry, London, UK.
(4)Department of Psychology, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, Scotland, UK.
(5)Queensland Institute of Medical Research, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia.
(6)1] Medical Research Council Centre for Causal Analyses in Translational 
Epidemiology, University of Bristol, Bristol, UK [2] School of Women's and 
Infants' Health, The University of Western Australia, Perth, Western Australia, 
Australia.
(7)Department of Psychology, University of Minnesota, St Paul, MN, USA.
(8)1] The Generation R Study Group, Erasmus MC-University Medical Centre 
Rotterdam, Rotterdam, The Netherlands [2] Department of Child and Adolescent 
Psychiatry, Erasmus MC-University Medical Centre Rotterdam, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(9)Netherlands Twin Register, Department of Biological Psychology, Vrije 
Universiteit Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(10)Department of Psychology, Birkbeck University of London, London, UK.
(11)The University of Queensland Diamantina Institute, Princess Alexandra 
Hospital, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia.
(12)1] Molecular Medicine Centre, Institute for Genetics and Molecular Medicine 
Centre, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK [2] Centre for Cognitive Ageing 
and Cognitive Epidemiology, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.
(13)1] Department of Psychology, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, Scotland, 
UK [2] Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, University of 
Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.
(14)Department of Epidemiology, University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, 
Houston, TX, USA.
(15)Department of Psychiatry, College of Medicine, University of Vermont, 
Burlington, VT, USA.
(16)1] The Generation R Study Group, Erasmus MC-University Medical Centre 
Rotterdam, Rotterdam, The Netherlands [2] Department of Epidemiology, Erasmus 
MC-University Medical Centre Rotterdam, Rotterdam, The Netherlands [3] 
Department of Pediatrics, Erasmus Medical Center Rotterdam, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(17)1] Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, University of 
Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK [2] Alzheimer Scotland Dementia Research Centre, 
Department of Psychology, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, Scotland, UK.
(18)Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Erasmus MC-University Medical 
Centre Rotterdam, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(19)School of Women's and Infants' Health, The University of Western Australia, 
Perth, Western Australia, Australia.
(20)1] Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Erasmus MC-University 
Medical Centre Rotterdam, Rotterdam, The Netherlands [2] Department of 
Epidemiology, Erasmus MC-University Medical Centre Rotterdam, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands [3] Department of Psychiatry, Erasmus MC-University Medical Centre 
Rotterdam, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(21)1] Genetic Epidemiology and Biostatistics Platform, Ontario Institute for 
Cancer Research, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada [2] Samuel 
Lunenfeld Research Institute, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(22)1] Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Erasmus MC-University 
Medical Centre Rotterdam, Rotterdam, The Netherlands [2] Department of 
Functional Genomics, Center for Neurogenomics and Cognitive Research (CNCR), 
Neuroscience Campus Amsterdam (NCA), VU University Amsterdam and VU Medical 
Centre, Amsterdam, The Netherlands [3] Department of Clinical Genetics, Section 
Medical Genomics, VU Medical Centre, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(23)1] Department of Psychology, University of Minnesota, St Paul, MN, USA [2] 
Department of Epidemiology, University of Southern Denmark, Odense, Denmark.
(24)1] The University of Queensland, Queensland Brain Institute, St Lucia, 
Queensland, Australia [2] Queensland Institute of Medical Research, Brisbane, 
Queensland, Australia [3] The University of Queensland Diamantina Institute, 
Princess Alexandra Hospital, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia [4] Centre for 
Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, 
UK.

Intelligence in childhood, as measured by psychometric cognitive tests, is a 
strong predictor of many important life outcomes, including educational 
attainment, income, health and lifespan. Results from twin, family and adoption 
studies are consistent with general intelligence being highly heritable and 
genetically stable throughout the life course. No robustly associated genetic 
loci or variants for childhood intelligence have been reported. Here, we report 
the first genome-wide association study (GWAS) on childhood intelligence (age 
range 6-18 years) from 17,989 individuals in six discovery and three replication 
samples. Although no individual single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were 
detected with genome-wide significance, we show that the aggregate effects of 
common SNPs explain 22-46% of phenotypic variation in childhood intelligence in 
the three largest cohorts (P=3.9 × 10(-15), 0.014 and 0.028). FNBP1L, previously 
reported to be the most significantly associated gene for adult intelligence, 
was also significantly associated with childhood intelligence (P=0.003). 
Polygenic prediction analyses resulted in a significant correlation between 
predictor and outcome in all replication cohorts. The proportion of childhood 
intelligence explained by the predictor reached 1.2% (P=6 × 10(-5)), 3.5% 
(P=10(-3)) and 0.5% (P=6 × 10(-5)) in three independent validation cohorts. 
Given the sample sizes, these genetic prediction results are consistent with 
expectations if the genetic architecture of childhood intelligence is like that 
of body mass index or height. Our study provides molecular support for the 
heritability and polygenic nature of childhood intelligence. Larger sample sizes 
will be required to detect individual variants with genome-wide significance.

DOI: 10.1038/mp.2012.184
PMCID: PMC3935975
PMID: 23358156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: The authors declare no 
conflict of interest.


21. Mol Psychiatry. 2014 Mar;19(3):380-4. doi: 10.1038/mp.2012.191. Epub 2013 Jan 
29.

DNA evidence for strong genetic stability and increasing heritability of 
intelligence from age 7 to 12.

Trzaskowski M(1), Yang J(2), Visscher PM(3), Plomin R(1).

Author information:
(1)King's College London, MRC Social, Genetic and Developmental Psychiatry 
Centre, Institute of Psychiatry, Denmark Hill, London, UK.
(2)University of Queensland Diamantina Institute, The University of Queensland, 
Princess Alexandra Hospital, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia.
(3)1] University of Queensland Diamantina Institute, The University of 
Queensland, Princess Alexandra Hospital, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia [2] 
Queensland Brain Institute, The University of Queensland, Brisbane, Queensland, 
Australia.

Two genetic findings from twin research have far-reaching implications for 
understanding individual differences in the development of brain function as 
indexed by general cognitive ability (g, aka intelligence): (1) The same genes 
affect g throughout development, even though (2) heritability increases. It is 
now possible to test these hypotheses using DNA alone. From 1.7 million DNA 
markers and g scores at ages 7 and 12 on 2875 children, the DNA genetic 
correlation from age 7 to 12 was 0.73, highly similar to the genetic correlation 
of 0.75 estimated from 6702 pairs of twins from the same sample. DNA-estimated 
heritabilities increased from 0.26 at age 7 to 0.45 at age 12; twin-estimated 
heritabilities also increased from 0.35 to 0.48. These DNA results confirm the 
results of twin studies indicating strong genetic stability but increasing 
heritability for g, despite mean changes in brain structure and function from 
childhood to adolescence.

DOI: 10.1038/mp.2012.191
PMCID: PMC3932402
PMID: 23358157 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. J Abnorm Child Psychol. 2014 Jan;42(1):91-103. doi: 10.1007/s10802-013-9722-3.

The association between sluggish cognitive tempo and academic functioning in 
youth with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).

Langberg JM(1), Becker SP, Dvorsky MR.

Author information:
(1)Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, VA, USA, jlangberg@vcu.edu.

The purpose of the study was to evaluate the relation between Sluggish Cognitive 
Tempo (SCT) and academic functioning in a sample of 52 adolescents (40 males, 12 
females) with Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD; M age = 13.75). 
This study builds on prior work by utilizing an empirically-based and 
psychometrically validated measure of SCT, collecting ratings of SCT from both 
parents and teachers, and examining associations with multiple domains of 
academic functioning from both the parent and teacher perspective as well as 
grade point average (GPA). Both SCT and DSM-IV symptoms of inattention were 
significantly correlated with domains of academic functioning. Multiple 
regression analyses demonstrated that the parent-rated SCT Slow subscale 
predicted overall academic functioning, organizational skills impairment, and 
homework problems above and beyond ADHD symptoms and child and demographic 
characteristics known to be associated with academics, including intelligence, 
academic achievement, and family income. The teacher-rated SCT Low 
Initiation/Persistence subscale also predicted homework problems and was the 
only SCT variable to predict school grades above and beyond ADHD symptoms and 
relevant covariates. Both the SCT Slow and Low Initiation/Persistence subscales 
include items related to youth seeming apathetic, unmotivated, and lacking 
initiative, behaviors that are strongly related to ADHD symptoms of inattention 
but not currently captured by the DSM-IV. Implications of these findings towards 
supporting the external validity of the SCT construct are discussed along with 
potential implications for intervention.

DOI: 10.1007/s10802-013-9722-3
PMID: 23359145 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. J Psychiatr Ment Health Nurs. 2014 Feb;21(1):31-8. doi: 10.1111/jpm.12044. Epub 
2013 Jan 31.

Neurological and intellectual disabilities among adolescents within a custodial 
institution in South-West Nigeria.

Atilola O(1), Omigbodun O, Bella-Awusah T, Lagunju I, Igbeneghu P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University College Hospital Ibadan, Ibadan, 
Nigeria.

A total of 67 adolescents from a juvenile remand home were matched with 67 other 
adolescents by age and gender, with a view to determine the prevalence and 
spectrum of neurological and intellectual disabilities. Intelligence quotient 
(IQ) was estimated using an adapted version of the Slosson's Intelligence Test 
and a full neurological evaluation was carried out. The mean IQ score for the 
remand home participants was significantly lower than the controls (77 ± 11 vs. 
99 ± 14; t = 1.6, P = 0.001). Almost half (46.7%) of the participants in the 
remand home had intellectual disability of varying degrees, including borderline 
intellectual functioning, compared with only two (3.3%) of the comparison group 
(P < 0.001). Epilepsy and neurological deficits were significantly more 
prevalent among the remand home group, particularly those admitted as victims of 
neglect, compared with the comparison group (P ≤ 0.02). These findings and 
recent literature were used to speculate the possible underlying factors. Policy 
implications for child social welfare in Nigeria were suggested.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jpm.12044
PMID: 23362804 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. Sci Eng Ethics. 2014 Mar;20(1):23-40. doi: 10.1007/s11948-012-9408-1. Epub 2013 
Jan 31.

Ethics in actor networks, or: what Latour could learn from Darwin and Dewey.

Waelbers K(1), Dorstewitz P.

Author information:
(1), Rector Nuijensweg 1, 5371 LR, Ravenstein, The Netherlands, 
waelbers@zonnet.nl.

In contemporary Science, Technology and Society (STS) studies, Bruno Latour's 
Actor Network Theory (ANT) is often used to study how social change arises from 
interaction between people and technologies. Though Latour's approach is rich in 
the sense of enabling scholars to appreciate the complexity of many relevant 
technological, environmental, and social factors in their studies, the approach 
is poor from an ethical point of view: the doings of things and people are 
couched in one and the same behaviorist (third person) vocabulary without giving 
due recognition to the ethical relevance of human intelligence, sympathy and 
reflection in making responsible choices. This article argues that two other 
naturalist projects, the non-teleological virtue ethics of Charles Darwin and 
the pragmatist instrumentalism of John Dewey can enrich ANT-based STS studies, 
both, in a descriptive and in a normative sense.

DOI: 10.1007/s11948-012-9408-1
PMID: 23371512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. J Pharm Biomed Anal. 2014 Jan;87:167-75. doi: 10.1016/j.jpba.2013.01.009. Epub 
2013 Jan 11.

Understanding and fighting the medicine counterfeit market.

Dégardin K(1), Roggo Y, Margot P.

Author information:
(1)F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd., Basel, Switzerland; Institute of Forensic Science, 
School of Criminal Sciences, University of Lausanne, Switzerland. Electronic 
address: klara.degardin@roche.com.

Medicine counterfeiting is a serious worldwide issue, involving networks of 
manufacture and distribution that are an integral part of industrialized 
organized crime. Despite the potentially devastating health repercussions 
involved, legal sanctions are often inappropriate or simply not applied. The 
difficulty in agreeing on a definition of counterfeiting, the huge profits made 
by the counterfeiters and the complexity of the market are the other main 
reasons for the extent of the phenomenon. Above all, international cooperation 
is needed to thwart the spread of counterfeiting. Moreover effort is urgently 
required on the legal, enforcement and scientific levels. Pharmaceutical 
companies and agencies have developed measures to protect the medicines and 
allow fast and reliable analysis of the suspect products. Several means, 
essentially based on chromatography and spectroscopy, are now at the disposal of 
the analysts to enable the distinction between genuine and counterfeit products. 
However the determination of the components and the use of analytical data for 
forensic purposes still constitute a challenge. The aim of this review article 
is therefore to point out the intricacy of medicine counterfeiting so that a 
better understanding can provide solutions to fight more efficiently against it.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpba.2013.01.009
PMID: 23384475 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Brain Struct Funct. 2014 Mar;219(2):485-94. doi: 10.1007/s00429-013-0512-z. Epub 
2013 Feb 8.

Architecture of fluid intelligence and working memory revealed by lesion 
mapping.

Barbey AK(1), Colom R, Paul EJ, Grafman J.

Author information:
(1)Decision Neuroscience Laboratory, University of Illinois, Champaign, IL, USA, 
barbey@illinois.edu.

Although cognitive neuroscience has made valuable progress in understanding the 
role of the prefrontal cortex in human intelligence, the functional networks 
that support adaptive behavior and novel problem solving remain to be well 
characterized. Here, we studied 158 human brain lesion patients to investigate 
the cognitive and neural foundations of key competencies for fluid intelligence 
and working memory. We administered a battery of neuropsychological tests, 
including the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale (WAIS) and the N-Back task. 
Latent variable modeling was applied to obtain error-free scores of fluid 
intelligence and working memory, followed by voxel-based lesion-symptom mapping 
to elucidate their neural substrates. The observed latent variable modeling and 
lesion results support an integrative framework for understanding the 
architecture of fluid intelligence and working memory and make specific 
recommendations for the interpretation and application of the WAIS and N-Back 
task to the study of fluid intelligence in health and disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s00429-013-0512-z
PMID: 23392844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Brain Struct Funct. 2014 Jan;219(1):353-66. doi: 10.1007/s00429-013-0504-z. Epub 
2013 Feb 14.

Musical training intensity yields opposite effects on grey matter density in 
cognitive versus sensorimotor networks.

James CE(1), Oechslin MS, Van De Ville D, Hauert CA, Descloux C, Lazeyras F.

Author information:
(1)Geneva Neuroscience Center, University of Geneva, Geneva, Switzerland, 
clara.james@unige.ch.

Using optimized voxel-based morphometry, we performed grey matter density 
analyses on 59 age-, sex- and intelligence-matched young adults with three 
distinct, progressive levels of musical training intensity or expertise. 
Structural brain adaptations in musicians have been repeatedly demonstrated in 
areas involved in auditory perception and motor skills. However, musical 
activities are not confined to auditory perception and motor performance, but 
are entangled with higher-order cognitive processes. In consequence, neuronal 
systems involved in such higher-order processing may also be shaped by 
experience-driven plasticity. We modelled expertise as a three-level regressor 
to study possible linear relationships of expertise with grey matter density. 
The key finding of this study resides in a functional dissimilarity between 
areas exhibiting increase versus decrease of grey matter as a function of 
musical expertise. Grey matter density increased with expertise in areas known 
for their involvement in higher-order cognitive processing: right fusiform gyrus 
(visual pattern recognition), right mid orbital gyrus (tonal sensitivity), left 
inferior frontal gyrus (syntactic processing, executive function, working 
memory), left intraparietal sulcus (visuo-motor coordination) and bilateral 
posterior cerebellar Crus II (executive function, working memory) and in 
auditory processing: left Heschl's gyrus. Conversely, grey matter density 
decreased with expertise in bilateral perirolandic and striatal areas that are 
related to sensorimotor function, possibly reflecting high automation of motor 
skills. Moreover, a multiple regression analysis evidenced that grey matter 
density in the right mid orbital area and the inferior frontal gyrus predicted 
accuracy in detecting fine-grained incongruities in tonal music.

DOI: 10.1007/s00429-013-0504-z
PMID: 23408267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. Brain Dev. 2014 Feb;36(2):97-106. doi: 10.1016/j.braindev.2013.01.005. Epub 2013 
Feb 13.

Neurobehavioral and hemodynamic evaluation of Stroop and reverse Stroop 
interference in children with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder.

Yasumura A(1), Kokubo N(2), Yamamoto H(2), Yasumura Y(3), Nakagawa E(4), Kaga 
M(2), Hiraki K(5), Inagaki M(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Developmental Disorders, National Institute of Mental Health, 
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Tokyo, Japan; Graduate School of 
Arts and Sciences, The University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan. Electronic address: 
yasumura@ncnp.go.jp.
(2)Department of Developmental Disorders, National Institute of Mental Health, 
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Department of Children, Saitama Jyunshin College, Saitama, Japan.
(4)Department of Child Neurology, NCNP Hospital, Tokyo, Japan.
(5)Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, The University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.

Failure of executive function (EF) is a core symptom of 
attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). However, various results have 
been reported and sufficient evidence is lacking. In the present study, we 
evaluated the characteristics of children with ADHD using the Stroop task (ST) 
and reverse Stroop task (RST) that reflects the inhibition function of EF. We 
compared children with ADHD, typically developing children (TDC), and children 
with autism spectrum disorder (ASD), which is more difficult to discriminate 
from ADHD. A total of 10 children diagnosed with ADHD, 15 TDC, and 11 children 
diagnosed with ASD, all matched by age, sex, language ability, and intelligence 
quotient, participated in this study. While each subject performed 
computer-based ST and RST with a touch panel, changes in oxygenated hemoglobin 
(oxy-Hb) were measured in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) by near-infrared 
spectroscopy (NIRS) to correlate test performance with neural activity. 
Behavioral performance significantly differed among 3 groups during RST but not 
during ST. The ADHD group showed greater color interference than the TDC group. 
In addition, there was a negative correlation between right lateral PFC (LPFC) 
activity and the severity of attention deficit. Children with ADHD exhibit 
several problems associated with inhibition of color, and this symptom is 
affected by low activities of the right LPFC. In addition, it is suggested that 
low hemodynamic activities in this area are correlated with ADHD.

Copyright © 2013 The Japanese Society of Child Neurology. Published by Elsevier 
B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.braindev.2013.01.005
PMID: 23414618 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. Bioprocess Biosyst Eng. 2014 Jan;37(1):27-36. doi: 10.1007/s00449-013-0925-3. 
Epub 2013 Feb 22.

Software sensors for biomass concentration in a SSC process using artificial 
neural networks and support vector machine.

Acuña G(1), Ramirez C, Curilem M.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Ingeniería Informática, Universidad de Santiago de Chile 
(USACH), Av. Ecuador, 3659, Santiago, Chile, gacuna@usach.cl.

The lack of sensors for some relevant state variables in fermentation processes 
can be coped by developing appropriate software sensors. In this work, NARX-ANN, 
NARMAX-ANN, NARX-SVM and NARMAX-SVM models are compared when acting as software 
sensors of biomass concentration for a solid substrate cultivation (SSC) 
process. Results show that NARMAX-SVM outperforms the other models with an SMAPE 
index under 9 for a 20 % amplitude noise. In addition, NARMAX models perform 
better than NARX models under the same noise conditions because of their better 
predictive capabilities as they include prediction errors as inputs. In the case 
of perturbation of initial conditions of the autoregressive variable, NARX 
models exhibited better convergence capabilities. This work also confirms that a 
difficult to measure variable, like biomass concentration, can be estimated 
on-line from easy to measure variables like CO₂ and O₂ using an adequate 
software sensor based on computational intelligence techniques.

DOI: 10.1007/s00449-013-0925-3
PMID: 23429930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Child Psychiatry Hum Dev. 2014 Feb;45(1):1-11. doi: 10.1007/s10578-013-0372-z.

Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder and sluggish cognitive tempo dimensions 
in relation to executive functioning in adolescents with ADHD.

Becker SP(1), Langberg JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Miami University, 90 North Patterson Avenue, 
Oxford, OH, 45056, USA, beckersp@miamioh.edu.

Previous research has failed to find a consistent relation between Sluggish 
Cognitive Tempo (SCT) and executive function (EF) in youth with 
Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) when laboratory-based 
neuropsychological tasks of EF are used, whereas recent research with youth and 
adults suggests a significant relation between SCT and ratings of EF. The 
purpose of this study was to examine ADHD dimensions and SCT symptoms in 
relation to ratings of EF in adolescents with ADHD. Fifty-two adolescents (ages 
12-16; 70 % male) participated in this study. Parents and teachers completed 
validated measures of SCT, ADHD symptoms, and EF in daily life. Adolescents' 
intelligence and academic achievement were also assessed. ADHD and SCT symptoms 
were significantly correlated with ratings of EF. Regression analyses 
demonstrated that, as hypothesized, ADHD hyperactive-impulsive symptoms were 
strongly associated with behavioral regulation EF deficits, with ADHD 
inattentive and SCT symptoms unrelated to behavioral regulation EF when 
hyperactive-impulsivity symptoms were included in the model. The parent-reported 
SCT Slow scale measuring motivation, initiative, and apathy predicted both 
parent- and teacher-reported metacognitive EF deficits above and beyond youth 
characteristics and ADHD symptoms. In contrast, teacher-reported ADHD 
inattention was most clearly associated with teacher-reported metacognitive EF 
deficits. This study provides preliminary evidence for the importance of SCT 
symptoms in relation to metacognitive EF deficits among adolescents with ADHD 
and the need to further investigate the overlap and distinctiveness of SCT/ADHD. 
Further research is needed to replicate and extend these findings.

DOI: 10.1007/s10578-013-0372-z
PMID: 23443466 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. J Atten Disord. 2014 May;18(4):346-56. doi: 10.1177/1087054713476138. Epub 2013 
Mar 8.

Working memory screening, school context, and socioeconomic status: an analysis 
of the effectiveness of the working memory rating scale in Brazil.

Engel de Abreu PM(1), Nikaedo C, Abreu N, Tourinho CJ, Miranda MC, Bueno OF, 
Martin R.

Author information:
(1)1University of Luxembourg, Luxembourg.

OBJECTIVE: The study explores the psychometric properties of the 
Brazilian-Portuguese version of the Working Memory Rating Scale (WMRS-Br) in a 
population of 355 young children from diverse socioeconomic status and schooling 
backgrounds.
METHOD: Public and private school teachers completed the WMRS-Br and children 
were assessed on a range of objective cognitive measures of fluid intelligence, 
working memory, and attention.
RESULTS: Reliability and validity of the WMRS-Br were excellent across the 
public and private school sample. The WMRS-Br manifested substantial links with 
objective measures of working memory and medium links with selective attention, 
switching, and interference suppression. Confirmatory factor analyses suggest 
that a shorter version of the scale provides an adequate fit to the data.
CONCLUSION: The WMRS-Br represents a valid screening tool in a Latin American 
context that has the potential to improve the early detection of working memory 
deficits in children growing up in poverty.

DOI: 10.1177/1087054713476138
PMID: 23475826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. J Intellect Disabil Res. 2014 Nov;58(11):1072-82. doi: 10.1111/jir.12027. Epub 
2013 Mar 11.

The analysis of challenging relations: influences on interactive behaviour of 
staff towards clients with intellectual disabilities.

Willems AP(1), Embregts PJ, Bosman AM, Hendriks AH.

Author information:
(1)MFCG, Multi-Disciplinary Centre for Dual Disabilities, Koraal groep, Heel, 
the Netherlands; Tranzo, Scientific Center for Care and Welfare & Department of 
Medical and Clinical Psychology, Tilburg University, Tilburg, the Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Relationships between support staff and clients with intellectual 
disability (ID) are important for quality of care, especially when dealing with 
challenging behaviour. Building upon an interpersonal model, this study 
investigates the influence of client challenging behaviour, staff attitude and 
staff emotional intelligence on interactive behaviour of one of these 
relationship partners, being support staff.
METHOD: A total of 158 support staff members completed a questionnaire on staff 
interactive behaviour for 158 clients with ID and challenging behaviour, as well 
as two questionnaires on staff interpersonal attitude and emotional 
intelligence.
RESULTS: Confronted with challenging behaviour as opposed to no challenging 
behaviour, staff reported less friendly, more assertive control and less 
support-seeking interpersonal behaviour. Also, staff used more proactive 
thinking and more self-reflection in dealing with challenging behaviour. Staff 
interpersonal attitude in general, mainly a harsh-dominant-resentful attitude, 
had a significant influence on most staff interactive behaviours towards an 
individual client with challenging behaviour. The influence of staff emotional 
intelligence, specifically intrapersonal abilities, on staff interactive 
behaviour towards an individual client with challenging behaviour was somewhat 
limited.
CONCLUSIONS: This research supports the necessity for training staff in general 
interpersonal attitudes towards clients as well as training in intrapersonal 
emotional intelligence, when confronted with challenging behaviour. Future 
research should focus more on the bidirectional dynamics of staff and client 
interactions.

© 2013 The Authors. Journal of Intellectual Disability Research © 2013 John 
Wiley & Sons Ltd, MENCAP & IASSIDD.

DOI: 10.1111/jir.12027
PMID: 23480642 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. J Learn Disabil. 2014 Sep-Oct;47(5):475-84. doi: 10.1177/0022219413479673. Epub 
2013 Mar 14.

IQ of four-year-olds who go on to develop dyslexia.

van Bergen E(1), de Jong PF(2), Maassen B(3), Krikhaar E(4), Plakas A(2), van 
der Leij A(2).

Author information:
(1)University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, Netherlands University of Oxford, Oxford, 
UK elsje.vanbergen@psy.ox.ac.uk.
(2)University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, Netherlands.
(3)University of Groningen, Groningen, Netherlands.
(4)Radboud University Nijmegen, Nijmegen, Netherlands.

Do children who go on to develop dyslexia show normal verbal and nonverbal 
development before reading onset? According to the aptitude-achievement 
discrepancy model, dyslexia is defined as a discrepancy between intelligence and 
reading achievement. One of the underlying assumptions is that the general 
cognitive development of children who fail to learn to read has been normal. The 
current study tests this assumption. In addition, we investigated whether 
possible IQ deficits are uniquely related to later reading or are also related 
to arithmetic. Four-year-olds (N = 212) with and without familial risk for 
dyslexia were assessed on 10 IQ subtests. Reading and arithmetic skills were 
measured 4 years later, at the end of Grade 2. Relative to the controls, the 
at-risk group without dyslexia had subtle impairments only in the verbal domain, 
whereas the at-risk group with dyslexia lagged behind across IQ tasks. Nonverbal 
IQ was associated with both reading and arithmetic, whereas verbal IQ was 
uniquely related to later reading. The children who went on to develop dyslexia 
performed relatively poorly in both verbal and nonverbal abilities at age 4, 
which challenges the discrepancy model. Furthermore, we discuss possible causal 
and epiphenomenal models explaining the links between early IQ and later 
reading.

© Hammill Institute on Disabilities 2013.

DOI: 10.1177/0022219413479673
PMID: 23492905 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. J Hum Nutr Diet. 2014 Apr;27 Suppl 2:284-91. doi: 10.1111/jhn.12090. Epub 2013 
Mar 17.

The effect of phosphatidylserine administration on memory and symptoms of 
attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder: a randomised, double-blind, 
placebo-controlled clinical trial.

Hirayama S(1), Terasawa K, Rabeler R, Hirayama T, Inoue T, Tatsumi Y, Purpura M, 
Jäger R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Early Childhood Education and Care, Kurashiki City College, 
Okayama, Japan; Daigokyou, Kyoto, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is the most commonly 
diagnosed behavioural disorder of childhood, affecting 3-5% of school-age 
children. The present study investigated whether the supplementation of 
soy-derived phosphatidylserine (PS), a naturally occurring phospholipid, 
improves ADHD symptoms in children.
METHODS: Thirty six children, aged 4-14 years, who had not previously received 
any drug treatment related to ADHD, received placebo (n = 17) or 200 mg day(-1) 
PS (n = 19) for 2 months in a randomised, double-blind manner. Main outcome 
measures included: (i) ADHD symptoms based on DSM-IV-TR; (ii) short-term 
auditory memory and working memory using the Digit Span Test of the Wechsler 
Intelligence Scale for Children; and (iii) mental performance to visual stimuli 
(GO/NO GO task).
RESULTS: PS supplementation resulted in significant improvements in: (i) ADHD 
(P < 0.01), AD (P < 0.01) and HD (P < 0.01); (ii) short-term auditory memory 
(P < 0.05); and (iii) inattention (differentiation and reverse differentiation, 
P < 0.05) and inattention and impulsivity (P < 0.05). No significant differences 
were observed in other measurements and in the placebo group. PS was 
well-tolerated and showed no adverse effects.
CONCLUSIONS: PS significantly improved ADHD symptoms and short-term auditory 
memory in children. PS supplementation might be a safe and natural nutritional 
strategy for improving mental performance in young children suffering from ADHD.

© 2013 The Authors Journal of Human Nutrition and Dietetics © 2013 The British 
Dietetic Association Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jhn.12090
PMID: 23495677 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. Memory. 2014;22(4):323-31. doi: 10.1080/09658211.2013.781186. Epub 2013 Mar 26.

Effects of impoverished environmental conditions on working memory performance.

Engel de Abreu PM(1), Puglisi ML, Cruz-Santos A, Befi-Lopes DM, Martin R.

Author information:
(1)a EMACS Research Unit , University of Luxembourg , Luxembourg.

This cross-cultural study investigates the impact of background experience on 
four verbal and visuo-spatial working memory (WM) tasks. A total of 84 children 
from low-income families were recruited from the following groups: (1) 
Portuguese immigrant children from Luxembourg impoverished in terms of language 
experience; (2) Brazilian children deprived in terms of scholastic background; 
(3) Portuguese children from Portugal with no disadvantage in either scholastic 
or language background. Children were matched on age, gender, fluid 
intelligence, and socioeconomic status and completed four simple and complex 
span tasks of WM and a vocabulary measure. Results indicate that, despite large 
differences in their backgrounds and language abilities, the groups exhibited 
comparable performance on the visuo-spatial tasks dot matrix and odd-one-out and 
on the verbal simple span task digit recall. Group differences emerged on the 
verbal complex span task counting recall with children from Luxembourg and 
Portugal outperforming children from disadvantaged schools in Brazil. The study 
suggests that whereas contributions of prior knowledge to digit span, dot 
matrix, and odd-one-out are likely to be minimal, background experience can 
affect performance on counting recall. Implications for testing WM capacity in 
children growing up in poverty are discussed.

DOI: 10.1080/09658211.2013.781186
PMID: 23531204 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. Int J Offender Ther Comp Criminol. 2014 May;58(5):607-31. doi: 
10.1177/0306624X13482882. Epub 2013 Mar 27.

The relationship between academic achievement and likelihood of police arrest 
among delinquents.

Yun I(1), Cheong J, Walsh A.

Author information:
(1)Chosun University, Gwangju, South Korea.

Drawing upon a recent study on the association between low self-control and 
differential responses from the criminal justice system, this study examined 
whether academic performance, a construct linked to self-control, was also 
associated with the probability of police arrest. The result indicated that 
academic performance did have a statistically significant inverse association 
with the likelihood of police arrest, net of low self-control and delinquency.

DOI: 10.1177/0306624X13482882
PMID: 23539519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Epidemiol Psychiatr Sci. 2014 Mar;23(1):85-97. doi: 10.1017/S2045796013000140. 
Epub 2013 Apr 2.

Executive functioning and psychopathological profile in relatives of individuals 
with deficit v. non-deficit schizophrenia: a pilot study.

Scala S(1), Lasalvia A(1), Seidman LJ(2), Cristofalo D(1), Bonetto C(1), Ruggeri 
M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Community Medicine, Section of Psychiatry, 
University of Verona, Verona, Italy.
(2)Harvard Medical School, Department of Psychiatry, Massachusetts Mental Health 
Center Division of Public Psychiatry, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, 
Boston, MA, USA.

Aims. Heterogeneity of schizophrenia is known to be reflected in 
neuropsychological functioning of patients, but its expression in relatives is 
understudied. This study aims at exploring relationship between executive 
functioning and clinical profiles of first-degree relatives of patients who are 
classified as having or not having the deficit subtype of schizophrenia (DSRELs 
v. non-DSRELs), with the prediction of greater executive impairment in DSRELs. 
Methods. DSRELs (n = 15) and non-DSRELs (n = 40) were compared with community 
controls (CCs, n = 55) on executive functioning measured by the Wisconsin Card 
Sorting Test (WCST) and the phonemic verbal fluency (PVF), and clinical 
measures. Effects of psychopathology and intelligence quotient (IQ) measures 
were investigated to determine their association with executive performance. 
Results. DSRELs showed more executive dysfunction on WCST and poorer social 
functioning than CCs and more severe negative symptoms than non-DSRELs. 
Differences on WCST-categories achieved (WCST-CA) remained significant after 
adjustment for clinical confounders and IQ. WCST-CA was associated with apathy 
and paranoid ideation only within the DSREL subgroup. Conclusions. Executive 
functioning and negative symptoms are severely impaired in first-degree 
relatives of deficit syndrome patients, thus suggesting that some neurocognitive 
deficits in patients may be transmitted within families according to the 
pathophysiology of the probands.

DOI: 10.1017/S2045796013000140
PMCID: PMC6998377
PMID: 23545096


38. Psychol Med. 2014 Jan;44(1):111-6. doi: 10.1017/S0033291713000615. Epub 2013 Apr 
3.

Intelligence and psychopathy: a correlational study on insane female offenders.

Spironelli C(1), Segrè D, Stegagno L, Angrilli A.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Psychology, University of Padova, Italy.

BACKGROUND: The occurrence of a significant relationship between psychopathic 
traits and intelligence is still open to debate. Most of the relevant 
information has been obtained from crystallized IQ tests or on psychopathic male 
offenders. In this study we hypothesized a negative correlation between 
psychopathic traits and fluid intelligence on a sample of criminal female 
in-patients.
METHOD: We carried out a correlational study on a selected sample of 56 criminal 
female offenders. Variables that were measured include the Hare Psychopathy 
Checklist Revised (PCL-R) total score (and, separately, the scores from its four 
subscales: Interpersonal, Affective, Lifestyle and Antisocial) and fluid IQ 
measured by Raven's Progressive Matrices (RPM).
RESULTS: Pearson's correlation between RPM IQ and total PCL-R score was negative 
(r(54) = -0.55, p < 0.001); women with greater psychopathy traits (total PCL-R 
score) had lower IQ scores. Negative correlations were also found between IQ and 
the four PCL-R subscales, Interpersonal, Affective, Lifestyle and Antisocial 
(r(54) = -0.35, p < 0.01, r(54) = -0.52, p < 0.001, r(54) = -0.53, p < 0.001, 
and r(54) = -0.49, p < 0.001 respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: The results indicate a general negative relationship between PCL-R 
and IQ, equally distributed across the four subcomponents of the psychopathic 
trait, and support the view that unsuccessful psychopathic women have poor 
planning and are unable to foresee and represent future consequences of their 
actions.

DOI: 10.1017/S0033291713000615
PMID: 23551975 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Neuroimage. 2014 Jan 15;85 Pt 1:508-17. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2013.03.052. 
Epub 2013 Apr 2.

Genetic influences on prefrontal activation during a verbal fluency task in 
adults: a twin study based on multichannel near-infrared spectroscopy.

Sakakibara E(1), Takizawa R, Nishimura Y, Kawasaki S, Satomura Y, Kinoshita A, 
Koike S, Marumo K, Kinou M, Tochigi M, Nishida N, Tokunaga K, Eguchi S, Yamasaki 
S, Natsubori T, Iwashiro N, Inoue H, Takano Y, Takei K, Suga M, Yamasue H, 
Matsubayashi J, Kohata K, Shimojo C, Okuhata S, Kono T, Kuwabara H, 
Ishii-Takahashi A, Kawakubo Y, Kasai K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Graduate School of Medicine, The University of 
Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan(2); Department of Psychiatry, National Center Hospital, 
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Tokyo, Japan. Electronic address: 
sakakibara-tky@umin.ac.jp.

Near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) studies have reported that prefrontal 
hemodynamic dysfunction during executive function tasks may be a promising 
biomarker of psychiatric disorders, because its portability and noninvasiveness 
allow easy measurements in clinical settings. Here, we investigated the degree 
to which prefrontal NIRS signals are genetically determined. Using a 52-channel 
NIRS system, we monitored the oxy-hemoglobin (oxy-Hb) signal changes in 38 adult 
pairs of right-handed monozygotic (MZ) twins and 13 pairs of same-sex 
right-handed dizygotic (DZ) twins during a letter version of the verbal fluency 
task. Heritability was estimated based on a classical twin paradigm using 
structured equation modeling. Significant genetic influences were estimated in 
the right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and left frontal pole. The degrees of 
heritability were 66% and 75% in the variances, respectively. This implies that 
the prefrontal hemodynamic dysfunction observed during an executive function 
task measured by NIRS may be an efficient endophenotype for large-scale imaging 
genetic studies in psychiatric disorders.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2013.03.052
PMID: 23558100 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. J Psychiatr Ment Health Nurs. 2014 Mar;21(2):106-13. doi: 10.1111/jpm.12052. 
Epub 2013 Apr 12.

Emotional intelligence, life satisfaction and subjective happiness in female 
student health professionals: the mediating effect of perceived stress.

Ruiz-Aranda D(1), Extremera N, Pineda-Galán C.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Psychology, University of Málaga, Málaga, Spain.

The objective of the present study was to extend previous findings by examining 
the relationship between emotional intelligence (EI) and well-being indicators 
(life satisfaction and happiness) in a 12-week follow-up study. In addition, we 
examined the influence of perceived stress on the relationship between EI and 
well-being. Female students from the School of Health Sciences (n = 264) 
completed an ability measure of emotional intelligence. After 12 weeks, 
participants completed the Perceived Stress Scale, Satisfaction with Life Scale 
and Subjective Happiness Scale. Participants with higher EI reported less 
perceived stress and higher levels of life satisfaction and happiness. The 
results of this study suggest that perceived stress mediates the relationship 
between EI and well-being indicators, specifically life satisfaction and 
happiness. These findings suggest an underlying process by which high emotional 
intelligence may increase well-being in female students in nursing and allied 
health sciences by reducing the experience of stress. The implications of these 
findings for future research and for working with health professions to improve 
well-being outcomes are discussed.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jpm.12052
PMID: 23578272 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. Neuropsychol Dev Cogn B Aging Neuropsychol Cogn. 2014;21(2):129-45. doi: 
10.1080/13825585.2013.789096. Epub 2013 Apr 19.

The influence of inhibitory processes on affective theory of mind in young and 
old adults.

Mahy CE(1), Vetter N, Kühn-Popp N, Löcher C, Krautschuk S, Kliegel M.

Author information:
(1)a Department of Psychology , University of Geneva , Geneva , Switzerland.

The primary aim of this study was to examine the impact of an inhibition 
manipulation on the effect of age on theory of mind (ToM) in an ecologically 
valid, affective ToM task. Participants were 30 young and 30 old adults. The 
Cambridge Mindreading Face-Voice Battery was used to measure ToM; in addition, 
measures of fluid and crystallized intelligence were taken. Participants were 
subjected to three levels of inhibitory demand during ToM reasoning: emotional 
inhibition, non-emotional inhibition, and no inhibition. Old adults performed 
worse than young adults. The emotional and non-emotional inhibition conditions 
resulted in worse ToM performance compared to the no inhibition condition. There 
were no differences in the impact of the inhibition conditions on old and young 
adults. Regression analyses suggested that old adults' crystallized intelligence 
was a significant predictor of ToM performance, whereas it did not predict young 
adults' ToM performance. Results are discussed in terms of verbal ability as a 
possible compensatory mechanism in coping with verbal inhibitory load in ToM 
reasoning.

DOI: 10.1080/13825585.2013.789096
PMID: 23597271 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. Int J Adolesc Med Health. 2014;26(1):79-84. doi: 10.1515/ijamh-2012-0116.

Hyperandrogenemia in male autistic children and adolescents: relation to disease 
severity.

El-Baz F, Hamza RT, Ayad MS, Mahmoud NH.

BACKGROUND: It has been suggested that autistic patients have elevated blood 
androgens, and although signs of precocious puberty have been reported in 
autistic patients, such a relation has not yet been clarified.
OBJECTIVES: To assess serum androgen levels in a group of Egyptian male autistic 
children and adolescents and their relation to disease severity. In addition, 
the risk for association of androgens with autism was estimated.
METHODS: In comparison to 20 controls, 30 male autistic children were studied. 
All subjects were subjected to clinical evaluation, intelligence quotient (IQ) 
assessment and measurement of serum free testosterone (FT), 
dehydroepiandosterone (DHEA) and Δ4-androstenedione (Δ4-A).
RESULTS: Androgens were higher in autistic patients than in controls and 
increased with increased autistic severity. Of the patients, 11 (36.66%) had 
high FT, 9 (30%) had high DHEA, 12 (40%) had high Δ4-A and 8 (26.66%) showed 
elevation of all androgen levels.
FT (OR: 38.45, 95% CI: 2.14-688.93, p=0.013) and Δ4-A (OR: 13.6, 95%CI: 
2.25-22.89, p=0.04) had a significant risk for association with autism.
CONCLUSIONS: Hyperandrogenemia is prevalent in autistic patients and increases 
with autistic severity. Thus, androgen levels should be assessed in autistic 
patients with signs of early puberty. Further studies are warranted regarding 
trials of anti-androgen therapy in such patients.

DOI: 10.1515/ijamh-2012-0116
PMID: 23612632 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. J Sci Food Agric. 2014 Jan 15;94(1):95-101. doi: 10.1002/jsfa.6202. Epub 2013 
Jun 17.

Evaluating the potential of artificial neural network and neuro-fuzzy techniques 
for estimating antioxidant activity and anthocyanin content of sweet cherry 
during ripening by using image processing.

Taghadomi-Saberi S(1), Omid M, Emam-Djomeh Z, Ahmadi H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Agricultural Machinery Engineering, Faculty of Agricultural 
Engineering and Technology, University of Tehran, Karaj, Iran.

BACKGROUND: This paper presents a versatile way for estimating antioxidant 
activity and anthocyanin content at different ripening stages of sweet cherry by 
combining image processing and two artificial intelligence (AI) techniques. In 
comparison with common time-consuming laboratory methods for determining these 
important attributes, this new way is economical and much faster. The accuracy 
of artificial neural network (ANN) and adaptive neuro-fuzzy inference system 
(ANFIS) models was studied to estimate the outputs. Sensitivity analysis and 
principal component analysis were used with ANN and ANFIS respectively to 
specify the most effective attributes on outputs.
RESULTS: Among the designed ANNs, two hidden layer networks with 11-14-9-1 and 
11-6-20-1 architectures had the highest correlation coefficients and lowest 
error values for modeling antioxidant activity (R = 0.93) and anthocyanin 
content (R = 0.98) respectively. ANFIS models with triangular and two-term 
Gaussian membership functions gave the best results for antioxidant activity (R 
= 0.87) and anthocyanin content (R = 0.90) respectively.
CONCLUSION: Comparison of the models showed that ANN outperformed ANFIS for this 
case. By considering the advantages of the applied system and the accuracy 
obtained in somewhat similar studies, it can be concluded that both techniques 
presented here have good potential to be used as estimators of proposed 
attributes.

© 2013 Society of Chemical Industry.

DOI: 10.1002/jsfa.6202
PMID: 23633396 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. Nurse Educ Today. 2014 Mar;34(3):413-20. doi: 10.1016/j.nedt.2013.03.018. Epub 
2013 May 6.

Emotional intelligence: an admission criterion alternative to cumulative grade 
point averages for prelicensure students.

Jones-Schenk J(1), Harper MG(2).

Author information:
(1)College of Health Professions, Western Governors University, 4001 S. 700 E., 
Suite 700, Salt Lake City, UT 84107, United States. Electronic address: 
Jan.jonesschenk@wgu.edu.
(2)College of Health Professions, Western Governors University, 4001 S. 700 E., 
Suite 700, Salt Lake City, UT 84107, United States. Electronic address: 
mary.harper@wgu.edu.

BACKGROUND: Predicting potential student success is of great interest to nursing 
educators and academic administrators alike. Cumulative grade point average 
(CGPA) has traditionally been used to screen nursing program candidates, but 
CGPA itself has shown to have no statistically significant predictive value and 
may in fact screen out individuals who possess social intelligence attributes 
that are essential for success in nursing practice. The purpose of this study is 
to determine if students whose emotional intelligence characteristics meet or 
exceed those of successful staff nurses are more likely to be successful in a 
baccalaureate nursing program.
METHODS: A descriptive, correlational design was used to compare the emotional 
intelligence attributes of 116 potential nursing students and 42 successful 
staff nurses using the Emotional Quotient Inventory (EQ-i).
RESULTS: Nursing students who remained in the nursing program were found to have 
significantly higher levels of total emotional intelligence, interpersonal 
capacity, and stress tolerance. Students who dropped from the nursing program 
were not significantly different from successful staff nurses in terms of 
emotional intelligence.
CONCLUSION: Emotional intelligence presents a compelling adjunct to current 
selection criteria for nursing students. However, the lack of research prevents 
widespread adoption of this criterion. This study suggests that students with 
higher levels of emotional intelligence, particularly intrapersonal capacity and 
stress tolerance, are more likely to be successful in a baccalaureate nursing 
program than students with lower levels. Further research is needed to determine 
the usefulness of EI as a predictor of student success in nursing programs.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nedt.2013.03.018
PMID: 23660239 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. Neuropsychol Dev Cogn B Aging Neuropsychol Cogn. 2014;21(2):214-21. doi: 
10.1080/13825585.2013.795515. Epub 2013 May 10.

Influence of IQ in interpreting MMSE scores in patients with multiple sclerosis.

Gontkovsky ST(1).

Author information:
(1)a Center for Neuroscience and Neurological Recovery , Methodist 
Rehabilitation Center , Jackson , MS , USA.

The Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) and Wechsler Adult Intelligence 
Scale-Fourth Edition (WAIS-IV) were administered to 46 outpatients diagnosed 
with multiple sclerosis (MS). MMSE total raw score was significantly and 
positively correlated with all WAIS-IV indexes, even when controlling for the 
effects of participant educational level, with the strongest relationship being 
with Full Scale IQ. These results suggest that clinicians consider patient 
intellectual functioning, in particular Full Scale IQ, when diagnosing 
neurocognitive impairment based on screening with the MMSE in individuals with 
MS.

DOI: 10.1080/13825585.2013.795515
PMID: 23663048 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Psychol Med. 2014 Mar;44(4):869-80. doi: 10.1017/S0033291713001037. Epub 2013 
May 13.

Identifying a consistent pattern of neural function in attention deficit 
hyperactivity disorder: a meta-analysis.

McCarthy H(1), Skokauskas N(1), Frodl T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Integrated Neuroimaging, Trinity College Dublin, 
Dublin, Republic of Ireland.

BACKGROUND: The neurobiological underpinnings of attention deficit hyperactivity 
disorder (ADHD) are inconclusive. Activation abnormalities across brain regions 
in ADHD compared with healthy controls highlighted in task-based functional 
magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies are heterogeneous. To identify a 
consistent pattern of neural dysfunction in ADHD, a meta-analysis of fMRI 
studies using Go/no-go, Stop and N-back tasks was undertaken.
METHOD: Several databases were searched using the key words: 'ADHD and fMRI' and 
'ADHD and fMRI task'. In all, 20 studies met inclusion criteria comprising 334 
patients with ADHD and 372 healthy controls and were split into N-back, Stop 
task and Go/no-go case-control groups. Using Signed Differential Mapping each 
batch was meta-analysed individually and meta-regression analyses were used to 
examine the effects of exposure to methylphenidate (MPH), length of MPH wash-out 
period, ADHD subtype, age and intelligence quotient (IQ) differences upon neural 
dysfunction in ADHD.
RESULTS: Across all tasks less activity in frontal lobe regions compared with 
controls was detected. Less exposure to treatment and lengthier wash-out times 
resulted in less left medial frontal cortex activation in N-back and Go/no-go 
studies. Higher percentage of combined-type ADHD resulted in less superior and 
inferior frontal gyrus activation. Different IQ scores between groups were 
linked to reduced right caudate activity in ADHD.
CONCLUSIONS: Consistent frontal deficits imply homogeneous cognitive strategies 
involved in ADHD behavioural control. Our findings suggest a link between fMRI 
results and the potentially normalizing effect of treatment and signify a need 
for segregated examination and contrast of differences in sample characteristics 
in future studies.

DOI: 10.1017/S0033291713001037
PMID: 23663382 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Schizophr Bull. 2014 May;40(3):617-25. doi: 10.1093/schbul/sbt058. Epub 2013 May 
10.

Role of visual integration in gaze perception and emotional intelligence in 
schizophrenia.

Tso IF(1), Carp J, Taylor SF, Deldin PJ.

Author information:
(1)*To whom correspondence should be addressed; 4250 Plymouth Road, Ann Arbor, 
MI 48109, US; tel: (734) 232-0373, fax: (734) 736-7868, e-mail: 
ivytso@umich.edu.

BACKGROUND: Individuals with schizophrenia demonstrate a wide range of social 
cognitive deficits that significantly compromise functioning. Early visual 
processing is frequently disrupted in schizophrenia, and growing evidence 
suggests a role of perceptual dysfunctions in socioemotional functioning in the 
disorder. This study examined visual integration (the ability to effectively 
integrate individual, local visual features into a holistic representation), a 
target construct of basic perception identified by the Cognitive Neuroscience 
Treatment Research to Improve Cognition in Schizophrenia initiative, and its 
relationship with eye- contact perception and emotional intelligence in 
schizophrenia.
METHODS: Twenty-nine participants with schizophrenia (SCZ) and 23 healthy 
controls (HC) completed tasks measuring visual integration (Coherent Motion 
Task, Contour Integration Task), an eye-contact perception task, and a measure 
of emotional intelligence.
RESULTS: SCZ participants showed compromised visual integration as suggested by 
poorer performance on the Contour Integration Task relative to HC. Visual 
integration was a significant predictor of eye-contact perception and emotional 
intelligence among SCZ. The amounts of variances in these 2 social cognitive 
areas accounted for by visual integration were comparable to and overlapped with 
those accounted for by the diagnosis of schizophrenia.
CONCLUSIONS: Individuals with schizophrenia showed compromised visual 
integration, and this may play a significant role in the observed deficits in 
higher level processing of social information in the disorder.

DOI: 10.1093/schbul/sbt058
PMCID: PMC3984511
PMID: 23666503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. J Appl Res Intellect Disabil. 2014 Mar;27(2):97-111. doi: 10.1111/jar.12055. 
Epub 2013 May 13.

I-CAN: the classification and prediction of support needs.

Arnold SR(1), Riches VC, Stancliffe RJ.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Disability Studies, The University of Sydney, Camperdown, NSW, 
Australia; Faculty of Health Sciences, The University of Sydney, Lidcombe, NSW, 
Australia.

BACKGROUND: Since 1992, the diagnosis and classification of intellectual 
disability has been dependent upon three constructs: intelligence, adaptive 
behaviour and support needs (Luckasson et al. 1992. Mental Retardation: 
Definition, Classification and Systems of Support. American Association on 
Intellectual and Developmental Disability, Washington, DC). While the methods 
and instruments to measure intelligence and adaptive behaviour are well 
established and generally accepted, the measurement and classification of 
support needs is still in its infancy. This article explores the measurement and 
classification of support needs.
METHOD: A study is presented comparing scores on the ICF (WHO, 2001) based I-CAN 
v4.2 support needs assessment and planning tool with expert clinical judgment 
using a proposed classification of support needs. A logical classification 
algorithm was developed and validated on a separate sample.
RESULTS: Good internal consistency (range 0.73-0.91, N = 186) and criterion 
validity (κ = 0.94, n = 49) were found.
CONCLUSIONS: Further advances in our understanding and measurement of support 
needs could change the way we assess, describe and classify disability.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jar.12055
PMID: 23666847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. J Health Psychol. 2014 Aug;19(8):1035-42. doi: 10.1177/1359105313483157. Epub 
2013 May 16.

Emotional intelligence, personality, and gender as factors in disordered eating 
patterns.

Zysberg L(1).

Author information:
(1)Betty Irene Moore School of Nursing, University of California, Davis, CA, 
USA; Department of Psychology Tel Hai College, Tel Hai, Israel 
leehuzysberg@yahoo.com.

We examined the hypotheses that proposing higher levels of emotional 
intelligence (ability test and self-report) and lower neuroticism, extraversion, 
and agreeableness associate with lower levels of disordered eating. In a 
correlational study, 126 Israeli college students completed two measures of 
emotional intelligence, a brief five-factor personality test, demographic data 
questionnaires, and questionnaires assessing food preoccupation, namely, the 
Body Weight, Image and Self-Esteem Scale and the Appearance Schema Inventory. 
Results suggested that ability emotional intelligence is associated with 
disordered eating beyond gender and personality. Self-reported emotional 
intelligence did not associate with any of the outcomes after controlling for 
personality. Implications and applications are briefly discussed.

© The Author(s) 2013.

DOI: 10.1177/1359105313483157
PMID: 23682062 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Soc Cogn Affect Neurosci. 2014 Jul;9(7):939-50. doi: 10.1093/scan/nst067. Epub 
2013 May 17.

From neural signatures of emotional modulation to social cognition: individual 
differences in healthy volunteers and psychiatric participants.

Ibáñez A(1), Aguado J(2), Baez S(2), Huepe D(2), Lopez V(2), Ortega R(1), Sigman 
M(1), Mikulan E(2), Lischinsky A(2), Torrente F(2), Cetkovich M(2), Torralva 
T(2), Bekinschtein T(2), Manes F(2).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Experimental Psychology and Neuroscience (LPEN), Institute of 
Cognitive Neurology (INECO), Favaloro University, Buenos Aires, Argentina, 
Laboratory of Cognitive and Social Neuroscience (LANCYS), UDP-INECO Foundation 
Core on Neuroscience (NUFIN), Universidad Diego Portales, Santiago, Chile, 
National Scientific and Technical Research Council (CONICET), Buenos Aires, 
Argentina, Parc Sanitari Joan de Deu-SSM, CIBERSAM, Universitat de Barcelona, 
Sant Boi, Barcelona, Spain, Escuela de Psicología, Facultad de Ciencias 
Sociales, Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile, Santiago, Chile, Laboratorio 
de Neurociencia Cognitiva, Departamento de Psiquiatría, Facultad de Medicina, y 
Centro Interdisciplinario de Neurociencia, Pontificia Universidad Católica de 
Chile, Santiago, Chile, Programa de Doctorado en Psicología, Departamento de 
Psicología, Facultad de Ciencias Sociales, Universidad de Chile, Santiago, 
Chile, Departamento de Física, FCEN, UBA and IFIBA, Conicet, Pabellón 1, Ciudad 
Universitaria, 1428 Buenos Aires, Argentina, Universidad Torcuato Di Tella, 
Alte. Juan Saenz Valiente 1010, Buenos Aires C1428BIJ, Argentina, and MRC 
Cognition and Brain Sciences Unit, Cambridge, UKLaboratory of Experimental 
Psychology and Neuroscience (LPEN), Institute of Cognitive Neurology (INECO), 
Favaloro University, Buenos Aires, Argentina, Laboratory of Cognitive and Social 
Neuroscience (LANCYS), UDP-INECO Foundation Core on Neuroscience (NUFIN), 
Universidad Diego Portales, Santiago, Chile, National Scientific and Technical 
Research Council (CONICET), Buenos Aires, Argentina, Parc Sanitari Joan de 
Deu-SSM, CIBERSAM, Universitat de Barcelona, Sant Boi, Barcelona, Spain, Escuela 
de Psicología, Facultad de Ciencias Sociales, Pontificia Universidad Católica de 
Chile, Santiago, Chile, Laboratorio de Neurociencia Cognitiva, Departamento de 
Psiquiatría, Facultad de Medicina, y Centro Interdisciplinario de Neurociencia, 
Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile, Santiago, C
(2)Laboratory of Experimental Psychology and Neuroscience (LPEN), Institute of 
Cognitive Neurology (INECO), Favaloro University, Buenos Aires, Argentina, 
Laboratory of Cognitive and Social Neuroscience (LANCYS), UDP-INECO Foundation 
Core on Neuroscience (NUFIN), Universidad Diego Portales, Santiago, Chile, 
National Scientific and Technical Research Council (CONICET), Buenos Aires, 
Argentina, Parc Sanitari Joan de Deu-SSM, CIBERSAM, Universitat de Barcelona, 
Sant Boi, Barcelona, Spain, Escuela de Psicología, Facultad de Ciencias 
Sociales, Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile, Santiago, Chile, Laboratorio 
de Neurociencia Cognitiva, Departamento de Psiquiatría, Facultad de Medicina, y 
Centro Interdisciplinario de Neurociencia, Pontificia Universidad Católica de 
Chile, Santiago, Chile, Programa de Doctorado en Psicología, Departamento de 
Psicología, Facultad de Ciencias Sociales, Universidad de Chile, Santiago, 
Chile, Departamento de Física, FCEN, UBA and IFIBA, Conicet, Pabellón 1, Ciudad 
Universitaria, 1428 Buenos Aires, Argentina, Universidad Torcuato Di Tella, 
Alte. Juan Saenz Valiente 1010, Buenos Aires C1428BIJ, Argentina, and MRC 
Cognition and Brain Sciences Unit, Cambridge, UK.

It is commonly assumed that early emotional signals provide relevant information 
for social cognition tasks. The goal of this study was to test the association 
between (a) cortical markers of face emotional processing and (b) 
social-cognitive measures, and also to build a model which can predict this 
association (a and b) in healthy volunteers as well as in different groups of 
psychiatric patients. Thus, we investigated the early cortical processing of 
emotional stimuli (N170, using a face and word valence task) and their 
relationship with the social-cognitive profiles (SCPs, indexed by measures of 
theory of mind, fluid intelligence, speed processing and executive functions). 
Group comparisons and individual differences were assessed among schizophrenia 
(SCZ) patients and their relatives, individuals with attention deficit 
hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), individuals with euthymic bipolar disorder (BD) 
and healthy participants (educational level, handedness, age and gender 
matched). Our results provide evidence of emotional N170 impairments in the 
affected groups (SCZ and relatives, ADHD and BD) as well as subtle group 
differences. Importantly, cortical processing of emotional stimuli predicted the 
SCP, as evidenced by a structural equation model analysis. This is the first 
study to report an association model of brain markers of emotional processing 
and SCP.

© The Author (2013). Published by Oxford University Press. For Permissions, 
please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/scan/nst067
PMCID: PMC4090956
PMID: 23685775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Dev Psychol. 2014 Jan;50(1):304-15. doi: 10.1037/a0032982. Epub 2013 May 20.

Working memory training and transfer in older adults: effects of age, baseline 
performance, and training gains.

Zinke K(1), Zeintl M(2), Rose NS(3), Putzmann J(4), Pydde A(4), Kliegel M(5).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Medical Psychology and Behavioural Neurobiology.
(2)Department of Psychology, Technische Universität Dresden.
(3)Rotman Research Institute, Baycrest Centre for Geriatric Care.
(4)Technische Universität Dresden.
(5)Department of Psychology, University of Geneva.

Recent studies suggest that working memory training may benefit older adults; 
however, findings regarding training and transfer effects are mixed. The current 
study aimed to investigate the effects of a process-based training intervention 
in a diverse sample of older adults and explored possible moderators of training 
and transfer effects. For that purpose, 80 older adults (65-95 years) were 
assigned either to a training group that worked on visuospatial, verbal, and 
executive working memory tasks for 9 sessions over 3 weeks or to a control 
group. Performance on trained and transfer tasks was assessed in all 
participants before and after the training period, as well as at a 9-month 
follow-up. Analyses revealed significant training effects in all 3 training 
tasks in trained participants relative to controls, as well as near transfer to 
a verbal working memory task and far transfer to a fluid intelligence task. 
Encouragingly, all training effects and the transfer effect to verbal working 
memory were stable at the 9-month follow-up session. Further analyses revealed 
that training gains were predicted by baseline performance in training tasks and 
(to a lesser degree) by age. Gains in transfer tasks were predicted by age and 
by the amount of improvement in the trained tasks. These findings suggest that 
cognitive plasticity is preserved over a large range of old age and that even a 
rather short training regime can lead to (partly specific) training and transfer 
effects. However, baseline performance, age, and training gains moderate the 
amount of plasticity.

PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/a0032982
PMID: 23688173 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. J Biosoc Sci. 2014 Mar;46(2):199-213. doi: 10.1017/S0021932013000266. Epub 2013 
May 23.

Cognitive abilities of Emirati and German engineering university students.

Rindermann H(1), Baumeister AE(1), Gröper A(2).

Author information:
(1)* Department of Psychology, Chemnitz University of Technology, Germany.
(2)† Friedrich Schiller University Jena, Germany.

According to human capital theory, individual competences and personality 
attributes are relevant for individual productivity and income. Within human 
capital, intelligence is crucial. To study engineering and work successfully as 
an engineer, high cognitive abilities are necessary, especially for work in 
research and development. In a study of 30 German and 30 Emirati engineering 
students (mean age: 22 years), both groups were tested with mathematical and 
figural intelligence scales (CogAT). German engineering students achieved a mean 
IQ of 116, and Emirati students 104 (in converted UK norms). In both groups male 
students achieved better results than females (2 to 4 IQ point difference). The 
results are compared with those from PISA and TIMSS. The possible causes of 
these results, their consequences and strategies for improvement are discussed.

DOI: 10.1017/S0021932013000266
PMID: 23702355 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Child Neuropsychol. 2014;20(3):255-80. doi: 10.1080/09297049.2013.796920. Epub 
2013 May 24.

An analysis of the criteria used to diagnose children with Nonverbal Learning 
Disability (NLD).

Mammarella IC(1), Cornoldi C.

Author information:
(1)a Department of Developmental and Social Psychology , University of Padova , 
Padova , Italy.

Based on a review of the literature, the diagnostic criteria used for children 
with nonverbal learning disabilities (NLD) were identified as follows: (a) low 
visuospatial intelligence; (b) discrepancy between verbal and visuospatial 
intelligence; (c) visuoconstructive and fine-motor coordination skills; (d) 
visuospatial memory tasks; (e) reading better than mathematical achievement; and 
(f) socioemotional skills. An analysis of the effect size was used to 
investigate the strength of criteria for diagnosing NLD considering 35 empirical 
studies published from January 1980 to February 2011. Overall, our results 
showed that the most important criteria for distinguishing children with NLD 
from controls were as follows: a low visuospatial intelligence with a relatively 
good verbal intelligence, visuoconstructive and fine-motor coordination 
impairments, good reading decoding together with low math performance. Deficits 
in visuospatial memory and social skills were also present. A preliminary set of 
criteria for diagnosing NLD was developed on these grounds. It was concluded, 
however, that-although some consensus is emerging-further research is needed to 
definitively establish shared diagnostic criteria for children with NLD.

DOI: 10.1080/09297049.2013.796920
PMID: 23705673 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Child Neuropsychol. 2014;20(3):343-57. doi: 10.1080/09297049.2013.796918. Epub 
2013 May 28.

Cognitive reserve as a moderator of responsiveness to an online problem-solving 
intervention for adolescents with complicated mild-to-severe traumatic brain 
injury.

Karver CL(1), Wade SL, Cassedy A, Taylor HG, Brown TM, Kirkwood MW, Stancin T.

Author information:
(1)a Department of Psychology , University of Cincinnati , Cincinnati , OH , 
USA.

Children and adolescents with traumatic brain injury (TBI) often experience 
behavior difficulties that may arise from problem-solving deficits and impaired 
self-regulation. However, little is known about the relationship of 
neurocognitive ability to post-TBI behavioral recovery. To address this 
question, we examined whether verbal intelligence, as estimated by Vocabulary 
scores from the Wechsler Abbreviated Scale of Intelligence, predicted 
improvements in behavior and executive functioning following a problem-solving 
intervention for adolescents with TBI. One hundred and thirty-two adolescents 
with complicated mild-to-severe TBI were randomly assigned to a six-month 
Web-based problem-solving intervention (CAPS; n = 65) or to an Internet resource 
comparison (IRC; n = 67) group. Vocabulary moderated the association between 
treatment group and improvements in metacognitive abilities. Examination of the 
mean estimates indicated that for those with lower Vocabulary scores, 
pre-intervention Metacognition Index scores from the Behavior Rating Inventory 
of Executive Function (BRIEF) did not differ between the groups, but 
post-intervention scores were significantly lower (more improved) for those in 
the CAPS group. These findings suggest that low verbal intelligence was 
associated with greater improvements in executive functioning following the CAPS 
intervention and that verbal intelligence may have an important role in response 
to intervention for TBI. Understanding predictors of responsiveness to 
interventions allows clinicians to tailor treatments to individuals, thus 
improving efficacy.

DOI: 10.1080/09297049.2013.796918
PMCID: PMC3796178
PMID: 23710617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. Cogn Neuropsychiatry. 2014;19(1):1-16. doi: 10.1080/13546805.2013.776494. Epub 
2013 May 28.

Similarities and differences in borderline and organic personality disorder.

Mathiesen BB(1), Simonsen E, Soegaard U, Kvist K.

Author information:
(1)a Department of Psychology , University of Copenhagen , Copenhagen , Denmark.

INTRODUCTION: Previous research has shown that brain injury patients with 
Organic Personality Disorder (OPD) may display "borderline" traits due to 
prefrontal damage, and their personality structure may be unstable and close to 
a borderline personality organisation. They may have few general 
neuropsychological dysfunctions but specific executive deficits. Similar 
deficits have been found in patients with Borderline Personality Disorder (BPD). 
The objective of this study was to identify differences and similarities between 
the neuropsychological and personality profiles of BPD and OPD patients.
METHODS: Twenty BPD patients and 24 OPD patients were assessed with the 
Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV Axis II Disorders (SCID-II), the 
Karolinska Psychodynamic Profile (KAPP), and a comprehensive neuropsychological 
test battery.
RESULTS: Very few neuropsychological differences were found between the two 
patient groups. However, the verbal fluency, verbal intelligence, verbal memory, 
and immediate auditory memory/attention of the BPD patients were significantly 
poorer than the OPD patients'. The KAPP profiles of the BPD patients showed 
significantly poorer functioning in three areas: frustration tolerance, the body 
as a factor of self-esteem, and overall personality organisation.
CONCLUSIONS: These results support our clinical experience and expectations 
concerning the severity of symptoms of both patient groups. We suggest 
considering in depth assessments of both neuropsychological and 
personality-related problems for each of these patients in order to inform 
treatment.

DOI: 10.1080/13546805.2013.776494
PMID: 23710758 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Child Dev. 2014 Mar-Apr;85(2):397-404. doi: 10.1111/cdev.12126. Epub 2013 May 
24.

Infant attention and early childhood executive function.

Cuevas K(1), Bell MA.

Author information:
(1)University of Connecticut.

Individual differences in infant attention are theorized to reflect the speed of 
information processing and are related to later cognitive abilities (i.e., 
memory, language, and intelligence). This study provides the first systematic 
longitudinal analysis of infant attention and early childhood executive function 
(EF; e.g., working memory, inhibitory control, cognitive flexibility). A group 
of 5-month-olds (n = 201) were classified as short or long lookers. At 24, 36, 
and 48 months of age, children completed age-appropriate EF tasks. Infant short 
lookers (i.e., more efficient information processors) exhibited higher EF 
throughout early childhood as compared to infant long lookers, even after 
controlling for verbal ability (a potential indicator of intelligence). These 
findings are discussed in relation to the emergence of executive attention.

© 2013 The Authors. Child Development © 2013 Society for Research in Child 
Development, Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/cdev.12126
PMCID: PMC3766399
PMID: 23711103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Psychol Health Med. 2014;19(2):180-9. doi: 10.1080/13548506.2013.802356. Epub 
2013 Jun 2.

Trait emotional intelligence and inflammatory diseases.

Costa S(1), Petrides KV, Tillmann T.

Author information:
(1)a Department of Human and Social Sciences , University of Messina , Messina , 
Italy.

Researchers have become increasingly interested in the psychological aspects of 
inflammatory disorders. Within this line of research, the present study compares 
the trait emotional intelligence (trait EI) profiles of 827 individuals with 
various inflammatory conditions (rheumatoid arthritis [RA], ankylosing 
spondylitis, multiple sclerosis, and RA plus one comorbidity) against 496 
healthy controls. Global trait EI scores did not show significant differences 
between these groups, although some differences were observed when comparisons 
were carried out against alternative control groups. Significant differences 
were found on the trait EI factors of Well-being (where the healthy group scored 
higher than the RA group) and Sociability (where the healthy group scored higher 
than both the RA group and the RA plus one comorbidity group). The discussion 
centers on the multifarious links and interplay between emotions and 
inflammatory conditions.

DOI: 10.1080/13548506.2013.802356
PMID: 23725416 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. Mol Psychiatry. 2014 May;19(5):555-9. doi: 10.1038/mp.2013.64. Epub 2013 Jun 4.

Childhood cognitive ability accounts for associations between cognitive ability 
and brain cortical thickness in old age.

Karama S(1), Bastin ME(2), Murray C(3), Royle NA(2), Penke L(4), Muñoz Maniega 
S(2), Gow AJ(5), Corley J(3), Valdés Hernández Mdel C(2), Lewis JD(6), Rousseau 
MÉ(6), Lepage C(6), Fonov V(6), Collins DL(6), Booth T(5), Rioux P(6), Sherif 
T(6), Adalat R(6), Starr JM(7), Evans AC(6), Wardlaw JM(2), Deary IJ(5).

Author information:
(1)1] Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, McConnell Brain Imaging Center, 
Montreal Neurological Institute, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada [2] 
Department of Psychiatry, Douglas Mental Health University Institute, McGill 
University, Verdun, QC, Canada.
(2)1] Brain Research Imaging Centre, Division of Clinical Neurosciences, 
University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK [2] Department of Psychology, Center for 
Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, 
UK [3] SINAPSE (Scottish Imaging Network, A Platform for Scientific Excellence) 
Collaboration, Division of Neuroimaging Sciences, University of Edinburgh, 
Edinburgh, UK.
(3)Department of Psychology, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.
(4)1] Department of Psychology, Center for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive 
Epidemiology, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK [2] SINAPSE (Scottish 
Imaging Network, A Platform for Scientific Excellence) Collaboration, Division 
of Neuroimaging Sciences, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK [3] Department 
of Psychology, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.
(5)1] Department of Psychology, Center for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive 
Epidemiology, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK [2] Department of 
Psychology, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.
(6)Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, McConnell Brain Imaging Center, 
Montreal Neurological Institute, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada.
(7)1] Department of Psychology, Center for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive 
Epidemiology, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK [2] Alzheimer Scotland 
Dementia Research Centre, Department of Psychology, University of Edinburgh, 
Edinburgh, UK.

Associations between brain cortical tissue volume and cognitive function in old 
age are frequently interpreted as suggesting that preservation of cortical 
tissue is the foundation of successful cognitive aging. However, this 
association could also, in part, reflect a lifelong association between 
cognitive ability and cortical tissue. We analyzed data on 588 subjects from the 
Lothian Birth Cohort 1936 who had intelligence quotient (IQ) scores from the 
same cognitive test available at both 11 and 70 years of age as well as 
high-resolution brain magnetic resonance imaging data obtained at approximately 
73 years of age. Cortical thickness was estimated at 81 924 sampling points 
across the cortex for each subject using an automated pipeline. Multiple 
regression was used to assess associations between cortical thickness and the IQ 
measures at 11 and 70 years. Childhood IQ accounted for more than two-third of 
the association between IQ at 70 years and cortical thickness measured at age 73 
years. This warns against ascribing a causal interpretation to the association 
between cognitive ability and cortical tissue in old age based on assumptions 
about, and exclusive reference to, the aging process and any associated disease. 
Without early-life measures of cognitive ability, it would have been tempting to 
conclude that preservation of cortical thickness in old age is a foundation for 
successful cognitive aging when, instead, it is a lifelong association. This 
being said, results should not be construed as meaning that all studies on aging 
require direct measures of childhood IQ, but as suggesting that proxy measures 
of prior cognitive function can be useful to take into consideration.

DOI: 10.1038/mp.2013.64
PMCID: PMC3998074
PMID: 23732878 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Cell Biochem Biophys. 2014 Jan;68(1):173-9. doi: 10.1007/s12013-013-9685-6.

Study on the effect of kidney transplantation on the health of the patients' 
offspring: a report on 252 Chinese children.

Xu L(1), Han P, Liu Y, Wang H, Yang Y, Qiu F, Peng W, Tang L, Fu J, Zhu X, Zhu 
Y.

Author information:
(1)Kidney Transplant Center, Jiulisong Hospital, Hangzhou, 310013, China, 
xulonggen88@sina.com.

Even though the incidence of pregnancies in the female recipients is lower and 
also chronic renal disease in male patients is associated with impaired 
spermatogenesis, the health of the children born to these patients was not 
studied. In this report, we discuss information on the growth and development of 
offspring of 248 male and female kidney recipient patients. Physical and routine 
clinical measurements of the 252 offspring (129 male and 123 female) born to 
these transplantation patients were made along with the intelligence tests. In 
some of these children chest X-ray and immune indices were assessed. Among the 
recipients, 219 males fathered 223 children with an average birth weight of 
3,255 ± 374 g and 29 female recipients gave birth to 29 children with an average 
birth weight of 2,923 ± 551. While most of these children were normal, we 
noticed a case of soft double toe, a case of short tongue tie, five cases of 
marginal mental retardation, three cases of proteinuria, six cases of 
microscopic hematuria, 15 cases of low hemoglobin, and 21 cases with recurrent 
respiratory tract infections. We conclude that kidney transplantation has no 
significant impact on the growth, development, health, and intelligence of the 
offspring born to recipients.

DOI: 10.1007/s12013-013-9685-6
PMID: 23733673 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Memory. 2014;22(4):426-41. doi: 10.1080/09658211.2013.797471. Epub 2013 Jun 7.

Why is working memory related to intelligence? Different contributions from 
storage and processing.

Dang CP(1), Braeken J, Colom R, Ferrer E, Liu C.

Author information:
(1)a Department of Psychology , Guangzhou Medical University , China.

Domain-specific contributions of working memory (WM), short-term memory (STM), 
and executive functioning (EF) to individual differences in intelligence were 
analysed using a latent variable approach. A sample of 345 participants 
completed a battery of 24 tests tapping the constructs of interests as 
comprehensively as possible. Visuospatial and verbal STM and WM tasks were 
administered along with three subcomponents of EF, namely inhibition, planning, 
and shifting. Intelligence was assessed by non-verbal/abstract/fluid 
intelligence (Gf) and verbal/crystallised intelligence (Gc) standardised tests. 
Structural equation modelling results show that EF is the main predictor of Gf, 
whereas verbal STM is the main predictor of Gc. Storage and processing providing 
different contributions to the prediction of Gf and Gc supports the view that 
both short-term storage and executive functioning account for the relationship 
between WM and intelligence. This main conclusion stresses the importance of 
acknowledging core cognitive constructs as being hierarchical systems with 
general and domain-specific mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1080/09658211.2013.797471
PMID: 23745736 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


61. Child Neuropsychol. 2014;20(3):372-7. doi: 10.1080/09297049.2013.799642. Epub 
2013 Jun 7.

Assessing the accuracy of the WISC-IV seven-subtest short form and the child and 
adolescent intellectual disability screening questionnaire in identifying 
intellectual disability in children.

McKenzie K(1), Murray AL, Murray KR, Murray GC.

Author information:
(1)a Clinical Psychology , University of Edinburgh , Edinburgh , United Kingdom.

Little research has been conducted into the accuracy of abbreviated assessments 
in identifying children and young people with an intellectual disability (ID). 
The present study compared two such methods in a clinical population of 
individuals with (n = 106) and without (n = 170) ID: a 7-subtest short form of 
the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scales for Children--fourth edition (WISC-IV) 
proposed by Crawford and colleagues and the Child and Adolescent Intellectual 
Disability Screening Questionnaire (CAIDS-Q). Both the CAIDS-Q and the WISC-IV 
short form had high and comparable levels of predicting group classification 
(88% and 91% correct classification, respectively). Both methods would appear to 
offer clinicians and researchers an efficient and accurate means of identifying 
those who are likely to have ID. The WISC-IV short form was slightly more 
accurate, but the CAIDS-Q may offer the advantages of being shorter to 
administer and having no requirement for the user to have a particular 
qualification or training.

DOI: 10.1080/09297049.2013.799642
PMID: 23745760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. Law Hum Behav. 2014 Feb;38(1):23-33. doi: 10.1037/lhb0000036. Epub 2013 Jun 10.

Does IQ moderate the relation between psychopathy and juvenile offending?

Hampton AS(1), Drabick DA(1), Steinberg L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Temple University.

Although evidence indicates that both psychopathy and intelligence independently 
predict juvenile offending, relations among IQ, psychopathy, and offending are 
inconsistent. We investigated whether intelligence moderates the relation 
between psychopathy and both income and aggressive offending concurrently and 
over time among 1,354 juvenile offenders enrolled in Pathways to Desistance, a 
prospective study of serious juvenile offenders in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 
and Phoenix, Arizona. Participants were assessed on intelligence, psychopathy, 
and self-reported offending at their initial interview (age range: 14-18 years 
old), and at 36 and 84 months later. Results indicate that intelligence 
moderates the concurrent relation between both income and aggressive offending 
and total psychopathy, as well as scores on Factor 1 (interpersonal/affective) 
and Factor 2 (social deviance); the 36-month prospective relation between all 
aspects of psychopathy and income offending; and the 84-month prospective 
relation between Factor 2 psychopathy and aggressive offending. As expected, 
higher levels of psychopathy are associated with higher levels of offending, but 
the highest levels of offending are evinced among youth with relatively higher 
levels of psychopathy and relatively higher IQ.

DOI: 10.1037/lhb0000036
PMCID: PMC3864133
PMID: 23750597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. J Clin Nurs. 2014 Apr;23(7-8):955-66. doi: 10.1111/jocn.12259. Epub 2013 Jun 10.

Perceived emotional intelligence in nursing: psychometric properties of the 
Trait Meta-Mood Scale.

Aradilla-Herrero A(1), Tomás-Sábado J, Gómez-Benito J.

Author information:
(1)Gimbernat Nursing School, Autonomous University of Barcelona, Barcelona, 
Spain.

AIMS AND OBJECTIVES: To examine the psychometric properties of the Trait 
Meta-Mood Scale in the nursing context and to determine the relationships 
between emotional intelligence, self-esteem, alexithymia and death anxiety.
BACKGROUND: The Trait Meta-Mood Scale is one of the most widely used self-report 
measures for assessing perceived emotional intelligence. However, in the nursing 
context, no extensive analysis has been conducted to examine its psychometric 
properties.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional and observational study.
METHODS: A total of 1417 subjects participated in the study (1208 nursing 
students and 209 hospital nurses). The Trait Meta-Mood Scale, the Toronto 
Alexithymia Scale, the Rosenberg Self-Esteem Scale and the Death Anxiety 
Inventory were all applied to half of the sample (n = 707). A confirmatory 
factor analysis was carried out, and statistical analyses examined the internal 
consistency and test-retest reliability of the Trait Meta-Mood Scale, as well as 
its relationship with relevant variables.
RESULTS: Confirmatory factor analysis confirmed the three dimensions of the 
original scale (Attention, Clarity and Repair). The instrument showed adequate 
internal consistency and temporal stability. Correlational results indicated 
that nurses with high scores on emotional Attention experience more death 
anxiety, report greater difficulties identifying feelings and have less 
self-esteem. By contrast, nurses with high levels of emotional Clarity and 
Repair showed less death anxiety and higher levels of self-esteem.
CONCLUSIONS: The Trait Meta-Mood Scale is an effective, valid and reliable tool 
for measuring perceived emotional intelligence in the nursing context. Training 
programmes should seek to promote emotional abilities among nurses.
RELEVANCE TO CLINICAL PRACTICE: Use of the Trait Meta-Mood Scale in the nursing 
context would provide information about nurses' perceived abilities to interpret 
and manage emotions when interacting with patients.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jocn.12259
PMID: 23750810 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. Biol Psychol. 2014 Jan;95:74-85. doi: 10.1016/j.biopsycho.2013.05.020. Epub 2013 
Jun 7.

Effect of beta and gamma neurofeedback on memory and intelligence in the 
elderly.

Staufenbiel SM(1), Brouwer AM(2), Keizer AW(3), van Wouwe NC(4).

Author information:
(1)Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, The Netherlands; TNO Behavioral and 
Societal Sciences, Soesterberg, The Netherlands. Electronic address: 
s.staufenbiel@erasmusmc.nl.
(2)TNO Behavioral and Societal Sciences, Soesterberg, The Netherlands.
(3)Neurofeedback Instituut Nederland, Eindhoven, The Netherlands.
(4)Vanderbilt Medical Center, Nashville, United States. Electronic address: 
nelleke.van.wouwe@vanderbilt.edu.

Recent research showed a correlation between cognitive decline and a decrease of 
EEG gamma activity. In the present double-blind randomized control study, we 
investigated whether gamma and beta neurofeedback protocols, that have been 
shown to modulate performance on cognitive control and memory in young adults, 
also leads to increased brain activity and cognitive performance in elderly. 
Twenty older adults either performed eight 30-min gamma neurofeedback session or 
beta neurofeedback session within a period of 21 days. Cognitive performance was 
determined before and after the training through an IQ and memory task and we 
added a subjective well-being questionnaire. Both neurofeedback training 
protocols resulted in a significant increase of the brain activity within each 
training session, suggesting that the aging brain is still trainable. However, 
we found no effects on cognitive performance or transfer of the feedback beyond 
the trainings. We discuss several possible reasons for the lack of training on 
rest measurements and cognition and ways to improve the feedback protocols for 
future studies.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopsycho.2013.05.020
PMID: 23751914 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. J Adv Nurs. 2014 Jan;70(1):176-86. doi: 10.1111/jan.12185. Epub 2013 Jun 14.

Emotional rescue: the role of emotional intelligence and emotional labour on 
well-being and job-stress among community nurses.

Karimi L(1), Leggat SG(2), Donohue L(3), Farrell G(4), Couper GE(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Health Services Management, School of Public Health and Human Biosciences, La 
Trobe University, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(2)School of Public Health and Human Biosciences, La Trobe University, Bundoora, 
Victoria, Australia.
(3)School of Nursing and Midwifery, Monash University, Melbourne, Victoria, 
Australia.
(4)School of Nursing and Midwifery, La Trobe University, Bundoora, Victoria, 
Australia.
(5)School of Psychology, Northcentral University, USA.
(6)Department of Biobehavioral Sciences, University of California (UCLA), 
California, USA.

AIMS: To investigate the extent to which emotional labour and emotional 
intelligence are associated with well-being and job-stress among a group of 
Australian community nurses. The moderating role of emotional intelligence was 
evaluated as a key factor in the rescue of healthcare workers from job-stress, 
thus increasing job retention.
BACKGROUND: Although emotional labour has been broadly investigated in the 
literature, the contribution of emotional labour and emotional intelligence to 
the well-being and experience of job-stress in a community nursing setting 
requires further exploration.
DESIGN: This study used a cross-sectional quantitative research design with data 
collected from Australian community nurses.
METHODS: Australian community nurses (n = 312) reported on their perceived 
emotional labour, emotional intelligence and their levels of well-being and 
job-stress using a paper and pencil survey in 2010.
RESULTS/FINDINGS: Results from structural equation modelling support the 
hypothesis that both emotional labour and emotional intelligence have 
significant effects on nurses' well-being and perceived job-stress. Emotional 
intelligence plays a moderating role in the experience of job-stress.
CONCLUSION: These findings provide additional evidence for the important effects 
that emotional labour and emotional intelligence can have on well-being and 
job-stress among community nurses. The potential benefits of emotional 
intelligence in the nurses' emotional work have been explored.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jan.12185
PMID: 23763612 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. CNS Spectr. 2014 Aug;19(4):316-23. doi: 10.1017/S1092852913000394. Epub 2013 Jun 
17.

Add-on clinical effects of selective antagonist of 5HT6 receptors AVN-211 
(CD-008-0173) in patients with schizophrenia stabilized on antipsychotic 
treatment: pilot study.

Morozova MA(1), Lepilkina TA(1), Rupchev GE(1), Beniashvily AG(1), Burminskiy 
DS(1), Potanin SS(1), Bondarenko EV(2), Kazey VI(2), Lavrovsky Y(3), 
Ivachtchenko AV(3).

Author information:
(1)1Laboratory of Psychopharmacology,National Center of Mental Health,Russian 
Academy of Medical Science,Moscow,Russia.
(2)2Avineuro LLC,Moscow,Russia.
(3)3Avineuro Pharmaceuticals Inc.,San Diego,California,USA.

The serotoninergic system as a target for add-on treatment seems to be a 
promising approach in patients with schizophrenia.
OBJECTIVE: To clarify if selective 5HT-6 antagonist AVN-211 (CD-008-0173) adds 
clinical and cognitive effects to stable antipsychotic treatment.
METHODS: A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, add-on, 4r-week trial 
in 47 schizophrenia patients (21 patients receiving study drug and 26 receiving 
placebo) who were stabilized on antipsychotic medication was performed. 
Seventeen patients from the study drug group and 25 patients from the placebo 
group completed the trial. Treatment effects were measured using clinical rating 
scales and attention tests.
RESULTS: With no differences at baseline, there was a significant difference 
between the groups in Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) positive 
subscale score (p = 0.058) in favor of patients in the treatment group at the 
endpoint. The PANSS positive subscore (p = 0.0068) and Clinical Global 
Impression-Severity (CGI-S) (p = 0.048) score significantly changed only in the 
treatment group. Only in the placebo group were significant changes in Calgary 
Depression Rating Scale (CDRS) total score registered. The indices of attention 
tests at endpoint did not show differences between the groups, with the 
exception of the scope of change in the results of the subtest VIII of the 
Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale (WAIS), which showed difference between the 
groups (p = 0.02) and was significantly larger in the treatment group. Only 
inside the study drug group, significant changes in selectivity and continuous 
attention were observed regarding total correct responses (p = 0.0038) and 
reaction time (p = 0.058) in the Continuous Attention Task (CAT) test.
CONCLUSION: Selective 5HT6 antagonist AVN-211 (CD-008-0173) added antipsychotic 
and some procognitive (attention) effects to antipsychotic medication.

DOI: 10.1017/S1092852913000394
PMID: 23768250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Br J Math Stat Psychol. 2014 May;67(2):248-65. doi: 10.1111/bmsp.12017. Epub 
2013 Jun 18.

Testing the difficulty theory of the SON-R 5(1/2)-17, a non-verbal test of 
intelligence.

Geerlings H(1), Laros JA, Tellegen PJ, Glas CA.

Author information:
(1)University of Twente, The Netherlands.

Fischer's (1973) linear logistic test model can be used to test hypotheses 
regarding the effect of covariates on item difficulty and to predict the 
difficulty of newly constructed test items. However, its assumptions of equal 
discriminatory power across items and a perfect prediction of item difficulty 
are never absolutely met. The amount of misfit in an application of a Bayesian 
version of the model to two subtests of the SON-R 5(1/2)-17 is investigated by 
means of item fit statistics in the framework of posterior predictive checks and 
by means of a comparison with a model that allows for residual (co)variance in 
the item parameters. The effect of the degree of residual (co)variance on the 
robustness of inferences is investigated in a simulation study.

© 2013 The British Psychological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/bmsp.12017
PMID: 23773035 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Anim Cogn. 2014 Mar;17(2):207-20. doi: 10.1007/s10071-013-0653-8. Epub 2013 Jun 
18.

"Insight" in pigeons: absence of means-end processing in displacement tests.

Cook RG(1), Fowler C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Tufts University, Medford, MA, 02155, USA, 
robert.cook@tufts.edu.

The understanding of functional relations between action and consequence is a 
critical component of intelligence. To examine this linkage in pigeons, we 
investigated their understanding of the relations of the elements tested in an 
extension of Köhler's box stacking task to this species. In the experiments, the 
pigeons had to move a spatially displaced box under an out-of-reach target. 
Experiment 1 successfully replicated and extended the previous finding showing 
that when separately trained to move a box and stand on it to peck the target, 
pigeons can synthesize these behaviors to solve the single-box displacement 
problem quickly on their first attempt. Experiment 2 tested whether pigeons, 
when given a simultaneous choice between two boxes with identical reinforcement 
histories, would selectively choose the box with the correct functional 
affordance (i.e., permitting standing) to solve the problem rather than a 
non-functional one. Their extensive, equivalent, and undirected behavior in 
moving both boxes during these tests suggests the pigeons did not possess a 
means-end understanding of the functional properties of the boxes. Instead, 
their results were consistent with an analysis of their earlier synthetic 
behavior as being due to the temporal and spatial relations of the physical 
elements in the task and their prior learned behaviors.

DOI: 10.1007/s10071-013-0653-8
PMCID: PMC3894253
PMID: 23774955 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. J Appl Res Intellect Disabil. 2014 May;27(3):264-72. doi: 10.1111/jar.12061. 
Epub 2013 Jun 18.

Assisted cycling exercise improves fine manual dexterity in persons with Down's 
syndrome.

Chen CC(1), Ringenbach SD, Albert AR.

Author information:
(1)Kinesiology Program, College of Health Solutions, Arizona State University, 
Tempe, AZ, USA.

BACKGROUND: This study was aimed at investigating the impact of assisted cycling 
therapy (ACT) on fine manual dexterity in adults with Down's syndrome (DS).
METHODS: Nine persons with DS completed four different interventions: voluntary 
exercise (VE), voluntary with music (VEM), assisted exercise (AE) and no 
exercise (NE). Fine manual dexterity (e.g., Purdue Pegboard) was tested pre and 
post interventions.
RESULTS: The results showed dominant and bimanual hands were improved after AE 
but no evident in either subtest after VE. The assembly subtest, processed by 
spatial-temporal ability, was only improved after VEM and NE.
CONCLUSIONS: It is speculated that AE stimulated more peripheral sensory input 
to the motor cortex and neurotransmitters than the other interventions. In 
addition, the involvement of music may enhance spatial intelligence during VEM. 
Even though the exact mechanisms are still unknown, the implication of our 
results showed that AE and VEM can improve fine manual dexterity in persons with 
DS.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jar.12061
PMID: 23775674 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Clin Child Psychol Psychiatry. 2014 Jul;19(3):460-75. doi: 
10.1177/1359104513489979. Epub 2013 Jun 19.

Attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in the early years: diagnostic 
issues and educational relevance.

Schmiedeler S(1), Schneider W(2).

Author information:
(1)University of Wuerzburg, Wuerzburg, Germany 
s.schmiedeler@psychologie.uni-wuerzburg.de.
(2)University of Wuerzburg, Wuerzburg, Germany.

In this study we discuss implications of the dimensional versus categorical 
approach in the diagnosis of attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and 
focus on the educational relevance of an early assessment. In a longitudinal 
study in a German community sample we investigated the development of ADHD 
symptoms from kindergarten until the end of Grade 1 as well as the association 
to pre-academic skills and later academic performance. At three time points in 
kindergarten, children (original sample N = 793; Mn age 4 years 10 months) were 
assessed in regard to school-relevant precursors of reading, spelling and 
mathematical abilities; ADHD symptoms were rated by parents and preschool 
teachers. In elementary school academic performance in reading, spelling, and 
mathematics was measured with standardized tests. Results show that stability of 
ADHD symptoms during preschool was high considering the dimensional approach, 
whereas in regard to the categorical classification many children crossing the 
cut-off point at one measurement point did not do so at the next assessment. 
Furthermore, preschool ADHD symptoms were negatively correlated with all 
school-relevant precursors. This was more pronounced for symptoms of inattention 
than for hyperactivity/impulsivity. Observing later development, preschool ADHD 
symptoms predicted academic achievement in mathematics and reading at the end of 
Grade 1 even after individual differences in nonverbal intelligence and specific 
precursors had been statistically controlled for.

© The Author(s) 2013.

DOI: 10.1177/1359104513489979
PMID: 23785052 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. Cogn Process. 2014 Feb;15(1):77-84. doi: 10.1007/s10339-013-0574-0. Epub 2013 
Jun 21.

Can music lessons increase the performance of preschool children in IQ tests?

Kaviani H(1), Mirbaha H, Pournaseh M, Sagan O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Faculty of Health and Social Sciences, University 
of Bedfordshire, Park Square, Luton, LU1 3JU, UK, hossein.kaviani@beds.ac.uk.

The impact of music on human cognition has a distinguished history as a research 
topic in psychology. The focus of the present study was on investigating the 
effects of music instruction on the cognitive development of preschool children. 
From a sample of 154 preschool children of Tehran kindergartens, 60 children 
aged between 5 and 6 were randomly assigned to two groups, one receiving music 
lessons and the other (matched for sex, age and mother's educational level) not 
taking part in any music classes. Children were tested before the start of the 
course of music lessons and at its end with 4 subtests of the 
Tehran-Stanford-Binet Intelligence Scale (TSB). The experimental group 
participated in twelve 75-min weekly music lessons. Statistical analysis showed 
significant IQ increase in participants receiving music lessons, specifically on 
the TSB verbal reasoning and short-term memory subtests. The numerical and 
visual/abstract reasoning abilities did not differ for the two groups after 
lessons. These data support studies that found similar skills enhancements in 
preschool children, despite vast differences in the setting in which the 
instruction occurred. These findings appear to be consistent with some 
neuroimaging and neurological observations which are discussed in the paper.

DOI: 10.1007/s10339-013-0574-0
PMID: 23793255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. J Pers Assess. 2014;96(1):46-52. doi: 10.1080/00223891.2013.806327. Epub 2013 
Jun 24.

Openness to experience, intellect, and cognitive ability.

DeYoung CG(1), Quilty LC, Peterson JB, Gray JR.

Author information:
(1)a Department of Psychology , University of Minnesota.

An instrument designed to separate 2 midlevel traits within each of the Big Five 
(the Big Five Aspect Scales [BFAS]) was used to clarify the relation of 
personality to cognitive ability. The BFAS measures Openness to Experience and 
Intellect as separate (although related) traits, and refers to the broader Big 
Five trait as Openness/Intellect. In 2 samples (N = 125 and 189), Intellect was 
independently associated with general intelligence (g) and with verbal and 
nonverbal intelligence about equally. Openness was independently associated only 
with verbal intelligence. Implications of these findings are discussed for the 
empirical and conceptual relations of intelligence to personality and for the 
mechanisms potentially underlying both Openness/Intellect and cognitive ability.

DOI: 10.1080/00223891.2013.806327
PMID: 23795918 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Eur Arch Paediatr Dent. 2014 Feb;15(1):37-43. doi: 10.1007/s40368-013-0050-7.

Influence of malocclusion on social perceptions of adolescents at public and 
private schools.

Pithon MM, Andrade D, Fernandes I, Mendes J, Nunes K, Michele L, Ribeiro AV, da 
Silva Coqueiro R.

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether malocclusion influences adolescents' perception 
when judging their colleagues from the aspects of athletics, social and health 
status, leadership and academic skills.
METHODOLOGY: Front view photographs of the smile of eight adolescent volunteers 
(non-ideal smile) were altered to create an image with aligned teeth (ideal 
smile). Two parallel groups were programmed with the subjects' photographs. When 
the image of an ideal smile of one of the subjects appeared in one of the 
groups, the image of the non-ideal appeared in the other. Two hundred 
adolescents were evaluators, half of the students being from private and half 
from public schools. They classified the group images indicating their social 
perception with respect to skills in sports, leadership, academic activities, 
popularity and the health conditions of each subject.
RESULTS: The majority of photographs of subjects with an ideal smile were 
evaluated as being better when compared with photographs of the non-ideal smile. 
The differences in the evaluations between the ideal and non-ideal smiles were 
significant for the perception of popularity, intelligence, leadership 
capability and health, differently from the performance in sports, as this 
aspect did not attain statistical relevance.
CONCLUSIONS: Malocclusion has influence on the perception of adolescents of 
different social levels when judging youngsters with or without malocclusion 
from the aspects of athletics, social and health status, leadership and academic 
skills.

DOI: 10.1007/s40368-013-0050-7
PMID: 23797925 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. Eur Child Adolesc Psychiatry. 2014 Apr;23(4):187-96. doi: 
10.1007/s00787-013-0444-4. Epub 2013 Jun 27.

Behavioral problems in school-aged hearing-impaired children: the influence of 
sociodemographic, linguistic, and medical factors.

Theunissen SC(1), Rieffe C(2)(3), Kouwenberg M(2), De Raeve LJ(4), Soede W(5), 
Briaire JJ(5), Frijns JH(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology and Head and Neck Surgery, Leiden 
University Medical Center, PO Box 9600, 2300 RC, Leiden, The Netherlands. 
s.c.p.m.theunissen@lumc.nl.
(2)Department of Developmental Psychology, Leiden University, Leiden, The 
Netherlands.
(3)Dutch Foundation for the Deaf and Hard of Hearing Child, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(4)KIDS, Royal Institute for the Deaf, Hasselt, Belgium.
(5)Department of Otorhinolaryngology and Head and Neck Surgery, Leiden 
University Medical Center, PO Box 9600, 2300 RC, Leiden, The Netherlands.

The purpose of this study was to examine several behavioral problems in 
school-aged hearing-impaired children with hearing aids or cochlear implants, 
compared to normally hearing children. Additionally, we wanted to investigate 
which sociodemographic, linguistic, and medical factors contributed to the level 
of behavioral problems, to pinpoint where targeted interventions can take place. 
This large, retrospective study included a sample of 261 school-aged children 
(mean age = 11.8 years, SD = 1.6), that consisted of three age- and 
gender-matched subgroups: 75 with hearing aids, 57 with cochlear implants, and 
129 normally hearing controls. Self- and parent-reports concerning reactive and 
proactive aggression, delinquency, and symptoms of psychopathy, attention 
deficit hyperactivity disorder, oppositional defiant disorder, and conduct 
disorder were used. In addition, several language and intelligence tests were 
administered. Hearing-impaired children showed significantly more proactive 
aggression, symptoms of psychopathy, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, 
oppositional defiant disorder, and conduct disorder than their normally hearing 
peers. More behavioral problems were associated with special schools for the 
deaf, sign (-supported) language, hearing aids (in contrast to cochlear 
implants), higher age, male gender, lower socioeconomic status, lower 
intelligence, and delayed language development. Hearing-impaired children face 
multiple problems regarding their behavior. The outcomes implicate that 
professionals should be aware of the higher risk of developing behavioral 
problems, in order to screen, detect, and treat in time. Furthermore, the 
associated risk and protective factors emphasize that clinicians must always 
consider the heterogeneity of the group of hearing-impaired children, in order 
to help and support the individual patient.

DOI: 10.1007/s00787-013-0444-4
PMID: 23807768 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. Psychol Med. 2014 Mar;44(4):767-77. doi: 10.1017/S0033291713001475. Epub 2013 
Jul 1.

Somatodendritic 5-hydroxytryptamine1A (5-HT1A) autoreceptor function in major 
depression as assessed using the shift in electroencephalographic frequency 
spectrum with buspirone.

McAllister-Williams RH(1), Alhaj HA(2), Massey A(3), Pankiv J(3), Reckermann 
U(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Neuroscience, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.
(2)Academic Clinical Psychiatry, University of Sheffield, UK.
(3)Northumberland, Tyne and Wear NHS Foundation Trust, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.

BACKGROUND: Positron emission tomography and post-mortem studies of the number 
of somatodendritic 5-hydroxytryptamine(1A) (5-HT(1A)) autoreceptors in raphé 
nuclei have found both increases and decreases in depression. However, recent 
genetic studies suggest they may be increased in number and/or function. The 
current study examined the effect of buspirone on the electroencephalographic 
(EEG) centroid frequency, a putative index of somatodendritic 5-HT(1A) receptor 
functional status, in a cohort of medication-free depressed patients and 
controls.
METHOD: A total of 15 depressed patients (nine male) and intelligence quotient 
(IQ)-, gender- and age-matched healthy controls had resting EEG recorded from 29 
scalp electrodes prior to and 30, 60 and 90 min after oral buspirone (30 mg) 
administration. The effect of buspirone on somatodendritic 5-HT(1A) receptors 
was assessed by calculating the EEG centroid frequency between 6 and 10.5 Hz. 
The effect of buspirone on postsynaptic 5-HT(1A) receptors was assessed by 
measuring plasma growth hormone, prolactin and cortisol concentrations.
RESULTS: Analysis of variance revealed a significantly greater effect of 
buspirone on the EEG centroid frequency in patients compared with controls 
(F1,28 = 6.55, p = 0.016). There was no significant difference in the 
neuroendocrine responses between the two groups.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings are consistent with an increase in the functional 
status of somatodendritic, but not postsynaptic, 5-HT1A autoreceptors, in 
medication-free depressed patients in line with hypotheses based on genetic 
data. This increase in functional status would be hypothesized to lead to an 
increase in serotonergic negative feedback, and hence decreased release of 5-HT 
at raphé projection sites, in depressed patients.

DOI: 10.1017/S0033291713001475
PMID: 23809646 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Scand J Med Sci Sports. 2014 Feb;24(1):e52-61. doi: 10.1111/sms.12093. Epub 2013 
Jul 5.

A physical education trial improves adolescents' cognitive performance and 
academic achievement: the EDUFIT study.

Ardoy DN(1), Fernández-Rodríguez JM, Jiménez-Pavón D, Castillo R, Ruiz JR, 
Ortega FB.

Author information:
(1)PROFITH "PROmoting FITness and Health Through Physical Activity" Research 
Group, Department of Physical Education and Sports, School of Sport Sciences, 
University of Granada, Spain; Department of Medical Physiology, School of 
Medicine, University of Granada, Granada, Spain; Department of Biosciences and 
Nutrition, Karolinska Institutet, Huddinge, Sweden; Department of Physical 
Education, IES J. Martínez Ruiz Azorín of Yecla, Ministry of Education of 
Murcia, Murcia, Spain.

To analyze the effects of an intervention focused on increasing the time and 
intensity of Physical Education (PE), on adolescents' cognitive performance and 
academic achievement. A 4-month group-randomized controlled trial was conducted 
in 67 adolescents from South-East Spain, 2007. Three classes were randomly 
allocated into control group (CG), experimental group 1 (EG1) and experimental 
group 2 (EG2). CG received usual PE (two sessions/week), EG1 received four PE 
sessions/week and EG2 received four PE sessions/week of high intensity. 
Cognitive performance (non-verbal and verbal ability, abstract reasoning, 
spatial ability, verbal reasoning and numerical ability) was assessed by the 
Spanish Overall and Factorial Intelligence Test, and academic achievement by 
school grades. All the cognitive performance variables, except verbal reasoning, 
increased more in EG2 than in CG (all P < 0.05). Average school grades (e.g., 
mathematics) increased more in EG2 than in CG. Overall, EG2 improved more than 
EG1, without differences between EG1 and CG. Increased PE can benefit cognitive 
performance and academic achievement. This study contributes to the current 
knowledge by suggesting that the intensity of PE sessions might play a role in 
the positive effect of physical activity on cognition and academic success. 
Future studies involving larger sample sizes should confirm or contrast these 
preliminary findings.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/sms.12093
PMID: 23826633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. Rev Psiquiatr Salud Ment. 2014 Jan-Mar;7(1):13-24. doi: 
10.1016/j.rpsm.2013.04.001. Epub 2013 Jul 2.

Neuropsychological assessment of memory in child and adolescent first episode 
psychosis: cannabis and «the paradox effect».

[Article in English, Spanish]

Moreno-Granados JM(1), Ferrín M(2), Salcedo-Marín DM(1), Ruiz-Veguilla M(3).

Author information:
(1)Grupo de Psicosis y Neurodesarrollo, Instituto de Biomedicina de Sevilla 
(IBIS), Hospital Universitario Virgen del Rocío/CSIC/Universidad de Sevilla, 
Sevilla, España.
(2)Department of Child & Adolescent Psychiatry, Institute of Psychiatry, 
Sunshine House (Neurodevelopmental Team), Londres, Reino Unido; Centro de Salud 
Mental Estella, Estella, Pamplona, España.
(3)Department of Child & Adolescent Psychiatry, Institute of Psychiatry, 
Sunshine House (Neurodevelopmental Team), Londres, Reino Unido. Electronic 
address: miguel.ruiz.veguilla.sspa@juntadeandalucia.es.

INTRODUCTION: The importance of neuropsychological functioning in First-Episode 
Psychosis (FEP) has led to the publication of a growing number of studies in 
this area of research. The present study pursued three goals: First, to examine 
verbal and visual memory in a sample of Child and Adolescent FEP, second, to 
evaluate the effect of other cognitive domains on verbal and visual memory, and 
finally, to examine the relationship between performance in this cognitive 
dimension and the use of cannabis at this age.
METHOD: A sample of 41 FEPs and 39 healthy subjects were evaluated. The 
variables assessed were verbal and visual memory, attention, working memory, 
processing speed, mental flexibility, verbal fluency, motor coordination, 
planning ability and intelligence.
RESULTS: Our results found impairment of short and long-term recall of verbal 
memory, and short-term visual memory in early psychosis. They also found 
relationships between cognitive dimensions, such as visual memory and 
intelligence and motor coordination. Finally, a «paradoxical» effect was found 
in patients who used cannabis, as the FEP consumers performed the visual memory 
test better than those who had not used it.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients showed impairment of short and long-term recall of verbal 
information and short-term visual reproduction. In the second place, motor 
coordination and intelligence influenced short-term visual memory in patients in 
the early stages of the illness. Third, use of cannabis in patients with FEP was 
associated with better performance in the test that evaluated the short-term 
visual memory, as measured by task completion time, that is, efficiency in 
performing the test. However, when measured by task execution accuracy, their 
visual memory was no better than the controls.

Copyright © 2012 SEP y SEPB. Published by Elsevier España. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rpsm.2013.04.001
PMID: 23830215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Nurse Educ Today. 2014 Apr;34(4):608-12. doi: 10.1016/j.nedt.2013.06.007. Epub 
2013 Jul 5.

Measured emotional intelligence ability and grade point average in nursing 
students.

Codier E(1), Odell E(2).

Author information:
(1)University of Hawaii, Manoa, 2528 McCarthy Mall, Webster Hall Rm 440, 
Honolulu, HI 96822, United States. Electronic address: codier@hawaii.edu.
(2)University of Arkansas, Eleanor Mann School of Nursing, 258 Epley Center for 
Health Professions, United States. Electronic address: eodell@uark.edu.

BACKGROUND: For most schools of nursing, grade point average is the most 
important criteria for admission to nursing school and constitutes the main 
indicator of success throughout the nursing program. In the general research 
literature, the relationship between traditional measures of academic success, 
such as grade point average and postgraduation job performance is not well 
established. In both the general population and among practicing nurses, 
measured emotional intelligence ability correlates with both performance and 
other important professional indicators postgraduation. Little research exists 
comparing traditional measures of intelligence with measured emotional 
intelligence prior to graduation, and none in the student nurse population.
OBJECTIVE: This exploratory, descriptive, quantitative study was undertaken to 
explore the relationship between measured emotional intelligence ability and 
grade point average of first year nursing students.
DESIGN SETTING AND SAMPLE: The study took place at a school of nursing at a 
university in the south central region of the United States. Participants 
included 72 undergraduate student nurse volunteers.
METHODS: Emotional intelligence was measured using the Mayer-Salovey-Caruso 
Emotional Intelligence Test, version 2, an instrument for quantifying emotional 
intelligence ability. Pre-admission grade point average was reported by the 
school records department.
RESULTS: Total emotional intelligence (r=.24) scores and one subscore, 
experiential emotional intelligence(r=.25) correlated significantly (>.05) with 
grade point average.
CONCLUSIONS: This exploratory, descriptive study provided evidence for some 
relationship between GPA and measured emotional intelligence ability, but also 
demonstrated lower than average range scores in several emotional intelligence 
scores. The relationship between pre-graduation measures of success and level of 
performance postgraduation deserves further exploration. The findings of this 
study suggest that research on the relationship between traditional and 
nontraditional measures of academic success, and emotional intelligence 
correlation with postgraduation performance, is warranted.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nedt.2013.06.007
PMID: 23835081 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. J Head Trauma Rehabil. 2014 May-Jun;29(3):217-23. doi: 
10.1097/HTR.0b013e31829babfd.

Verbal ability and language outcome following traumatic brain injury in early 
childhood.

Crowe LM(1), Anderson V, Barton S, Babl FE, Catroppa C.

Author information:
(1)Murdoch Childrens Research Institute (Drs Crowe, Anderson, Babl Barton, and 
Catroppa), University of Melbourne (Drs Crowe, Anderson, Babl and Catroppa), and 
Royal Children's Hospital (Drs Anderson and Babl), Melbourne, Australia.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate language outcomes of TBI in preschool-aged children. 
Competent early language skills are pivotal for the future development of 
literacy skills. While previous research has reported that traumatic brain 
injury (TBI) places children at risk of language impairments, the majority of 
these studies have been conducted with school-aged children.
SETTING: Royal Children's Hospital, Melbourne, Australia.
PARTICIPANTS: Children aged 4 to 6 years who had sustained a mild (N = 19) or 
moderate/severe (N = 16) TBI prior to 3 years of age and a control group (N = 
20) of typically developing children matched for age, gender, and socioeconomic 
status.
MAIN MEASURES: The Wechsler Preschool and Primary School Scale of Intelligence, 
Third Edition, measured Verbal IQ. The Clinical Evaluation of Language 
Fundamentals-Preschool version and the Bus Story Test measured language skills.
RESULTS: More severely injured children displayed greater impairments in verbal 
intellectual abilities and language skills compared with children with mild TBI 
and uninjured children. Children with mild TBI performed similarly to children 
in the control group.
CONCLUSION: Language appears vulnerable to TBI and should be investigated as a 
matter of course in clinical assessments of TBI recovery.

DOI: 10.1097/HTR.0b013e31829babfd
PMID: 23835877 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 2014 Apr;85(4):363-70. doi: 
10.1136/jnnp-2013-305078. Epub 2013 Jul 9.

Measuring cognitive change in subjects with prodromal Alzheimer's disease.

Mura T(1), Proust-Lima C, Jacqmin-Gadda H, Akbaraly TN, Touchon J, Dubois B, 
Berr C.

Author information:
(1)INSERM, U1061, Neuropsychiatrie: Recherche Epidémiologique et Clinique, , 
Montpellier, Cedex, France.

Comment in
    J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 2014 Apr;85(4):358.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the sensitivity of a large set of neuropsychological 
tests to detect cognitive changes due to prodromal Alzheimer's disease(AD); to 
compare their metrological properties in order to select a restricted number of 
these tests for the longitudinal follow-up of subjects with prodromal AD.
PARTICIPANTS: 212 patients with mild cognitive impairment were tested at 
baseline by a standardised neuropsychological battery, which included: the Free 
and Cued Selective Reminding test (FCSRT), the Benton Visual Retention test, the 
Deno100, verbal fluency, a serial digit learning test, the double task of 
Baddeley, the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale (WAIS) similarities, the 
Trail-Making Test and the WAIS digit symbol test. Patients were monitored every 
6 months for up to 3 years in order to identify those who converted to AD 
(retrospectively classified as prodromal AD). Statistical analyses were 
performed using a nonlinear multivariate mixed model involving a latent process. 
This model assumes that the psychometric tests are nonlinear transformations of 
a common latent cognitive process, and it captures the metrological properties 
of tests.
RESULTS: 57 patients converted to AD. The most sensitive tests in the detection 
of cognitive changes due to prodromal AD were the FCSRT, the semantic verbal 
fluency and the Deno100. Some tests exhibited a higher sensitivity to cognitive 
changes for subjects with high levels of cognition, such as the free recall, 
delayed free recall scores of the FCSRT and the semantic verbal fluency, whereas 
others showed a higher sensitivity at low levels of cognition, such as the total 
recall score of the FCSRT.
CONCLUSIONS: Tests used for the follow-up of prodromal AD subjects should be 
chosen among those that actually decline in this stage of the disease and should 
be selected according to the subject's initial scores.

DOI: 10.1136/jnnp-2013-305078
PMCID: PMC5225268
PMID: 23840054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Statement: The authors have no conflict of 
interest to declare.


81. Clin Genet. 2014 Aug;86(2):172-6. doi: 10.1111/cge.12236. Epub 2013 Jul 28.

Whole-exome sequencing expands the phenotype of Hunter syndrome.

Nikkel SM(1), Huang L, Lachman R, Beaulieu CL, Schwartzentruber J, Majewski J, 
Geraghty MT, Boycott KM; FORGE Canada Consortium.

Collaborators: Boycott K, Friedman J, Michaud J, Bernier F, Brudno M, Fernandez 
B, Knoppers B, Samuels M, Scherer S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics, Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario, Ottawa, ON, 
Canada; University of Ottawa, Ottawa, ON, Canada.

Whole-exome sequencing (WES) has proven its utility in finding novel genes 
associated with rare conditions and its usefulness is being further demonstrated 
in expanding the phenotypes of well known diseases. We present here a family 
with a previously undiagnosed X-linked condition characterized by progressive 
restriction of joint range of motion, prominence of the supraorbital ridge, 
audiology issues and hernias. They had an average stature, normal 
occipitofrontal circumference and intelligence, absence of dysostosis multiplex 
and otherwise good health. A diagnosis of Hunter syndrome was determined using 
WES and further supported by biochemical investigations. The phenotype of this 
family does not correspond to either the severe or attenuated clinical subtypes 
of Hunter syndrome. As further atypical families are reported, this 
classification will need to be modified. Our findings highlight the utility of 
WES in expanding the recognized phenotypic spectrum of known syndromes.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cge.12236
PMID: 23844659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Appl Ergon. 2014 Mar;45(2):162-70. doi: 10.1016/j.apergo.2013.05.011. Epub 2013 
Jul 12.

Socio-technical systems and interaction design - 21st century relevance.

Maguire M(1).

Author information:
(1)Design School, Loughborough University, Loughborough LE11 3TU, United 
Kingdom. Electronic address: m.c.maguire@lboro.ac.uk.

This paper focuses on the relationship between the socio-technical system and 
the user-technology interface. It looks at specific aspects of the 
organisational context such as multiple user roles, job change, work processes 
and workflows, technical infrastructure, and the challenges they present for the 
interaction designer. The implications of trends such as more mobile and 
flexible working, the use of social media, and the growth of the virtual 
organisation, are also considered. The paper also reviews rapidly evolving 
technologies such as pervasive systems and artificial intelligence, and the 
skills that workers will need to engage with them.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd and The Ergonomics Society. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.apergo.2013.05.011
PMID: 23856116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. Arch Sex Behav. 2014 Feb;43(2):399-405. doi: 10.1007/s10508-013-0151-8. Epub 
2013 Jul 12.

Discordant transsexualism in male monozygotic twins: neuroanatomical and 
psychological differences.

Andreazza TS(1), Costa AB, Massuda R, Salvador J, Silveira EM, Piccon F, 
Carvalho R, Fontanari AM, Koff W, Belmonte-de-Abreu P, Lobato MI.

Author information:
(1)Gender Identity Disorder Program, Hospital de Clínicas de Porto Alegre, 
Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre, Brazil, 
tahianasa@yahoo.com.br.

One monozygotic male twin pair discordant for transsexualism is described. Both 
twins were interviewed and tested with the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale 
battery for cognitive functions and they underwent magnetic resonance imaging to 
measure the volumes of specific cerebral structures. Interviews with the twins 
and their mother indicated no unusual medical or life history events that could 
have had a causal role in the emergence of the disorder. Both cognitive function 
testing and neuroimaging detected differences between the twins that could be 
related to unexplained epigenetic effects and exogenous hormone usage.

DOI: 10.1007/s10508-013-0151-8
PMID: 23857518 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. Asia Pac Psychiatry. 2014 Mar;6(1):54-61. doi: 10.1111/j.1758-5872.2012.00217.x. 
Epub 2012 Jul 31.

Assessment of prospective memory in schizophrenia using the Chinese version of 
the Cambridge Prospective Memory Test: a controlled study.

Au RW(1), Man D, Shum D, Lee E, Xiang YT, Ungvari GS, Tang WK.

Author information:
(1)Occupational Therapy Department, North District Hospital, Hong Kong, China; 
Department of Psychiatry, Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China.

INTRODUCTION: Data on the psychometric assessment of prospective memory (PM) are 
limited. The Cambridge Prospective Memory Test (CAMPROMPT) and its Chinese 
version (CAMPROMPT-C) have been applied to a variety of clinical conditions 
except for chronic schizophrenia. This controlled study explored the clinical 
utility of the CAMPROMPT-C in patients with schizophrenia by comparing their PM 
performance with that of normal controls.
METHODS: Forty-four schizophrenia patients and 44 normal controls formed the 
study sample. Sociodemographic characteristics, PM, retrospective memory, and 
intelligence were measured in all subjects. Patients' psychopathology was rated 
with a standardized instrument.
RESULTS: Patients performed worse than normal controls on both the sum and 
subscale scores of the CAMPROMPT-C. Patients had comparable performances in PM 
subtypes. Bivariate analyses revealed that education level, intelligence, and 
retrospective memory were associated with PM functions.
DISCUSSION: The study supports the clinical utility of the CAMPROMPT-C in 
chronic schizophrenia and corroborated the significant relationship between PM 
and education, intelligence, and retrospective memory.

Copyright © 2012 Blackwell Publishing Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1758-5872.2012.00217.x
PMID: 23857670 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Psychol Med. 2014 Apr;44(6):1257-65. doi: 10.1017/S0033291713001608. Epub 2013 
Jul 19.

The impact of parent socio-economic status on executive functioning and cortical 
morphology in individuals with schizophrenia and healthy controls.

Yeo RA(1), Martinez D(1), Pommy J(1), Ehrlich S(2), Schulz SC(3), Ho BC(4), 
Bustillo JR(5), Calhoun VD(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, NM, USA.
(2)Martinos Center for Biomedical Imaging, Massachusetts General Hospital, 
Charlestown, MA, USA.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN, USA.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, Carver College of Medicine, University of Iowa, 
Iowa City, IA, USA.
(5)The Mind Research Network, Albuquerque, NM, USA.

BACKGROUND: Relatively lower executive functioning is characteristic of 
individuals with schizophrenia. As low socio-economic status (SES) early in life 
(i.e. parent SES) has been linked with lower executive skills in healthy 
children, we hypothesized that parental SES (pSES) would be more strongly 
related to executive functioning in individuals with schizophrenia than in 
controls and have a greater impact on prefrontal cortical morphology.
METHOD: Healthy controls (n = 125) and individuals with schizophrenia (n = 102) 
completed tests assessing executive functioning and intelligence. The groups 
were matched on pSES, which was evaluated with the Hollingshead-Redlich scale. A 
principal components analysis (PCA) was conducted on 10 variables from six 
executive tests, yielding three specific components (fluency, planning and 
response inhibition). Voxel-based morphometry (VBM) was used to evaluate effects 
of pSES on gray matter (GM) concentration.
RESULTS: Lower pSES was associated with lower scores across the three executive 
functioning components, and a significant group by pSES interaction was observed 
such that low pSES, in particular, affected individuals with schizophrenia. 
These effects remained significant when intellectual ability, education and 
self-SES (sSES) were added as covariates. VBM revealed that lower pSES was 
associated with reduced GM volume in several anterior brain regions, especially 
the superior frontal gyrus, in patients but not in controls.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that individuals with schizophrenia may be 
particularly vulnerable to the adverse impact of low pSES, in terms of both 
lower executive skills and reduced anterior GM volumes.

DOI: 10.1017/S0033291713001608
PMCID: PMC4428550
PMID: 23866983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. J Clin Nurs. 2014 Jul;23(13-14):1803-9. doi: 10.1111/jocn.12209. Epub 2013 Jul 
22.

The performance of an online osteoporosis detection system a sensitivity and 
specificity analysis.

Chang SF(1), Hong CM, Yang RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nursing, National Taipei College of Nursing, Taipei, Taiwan.

Comment in
    Evid Based Nurs. 2015 Oct;18(4):114.

AIMS AND OBJECTIVES: To develop an online system for the detection of 
osteoporosis risk and to test its accuracy.
BACKGROUND: Osteoporosis is a silent killer; usually, there are no symptoms, 
such as pain, until bone erosion and fracture occur. The risks of osteoporosis 
have been underestimated and neglected; as a result, osteoporosis can be as 
dangerous as heart diseases and cancers that lead to a healthcare crisis.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional study.
METHODS: The study participants were individuals presenting for routine health 
examinations at a medical centre in Taiwan from 2006-2007. Women over 30 years 
of age who underwent dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry scanning for measurement 
of bone mineral density were eligible for this study. The system for 
osteoporosis detection and health risk, which was developed in this study, was 
analysed.
RESULTS: The findings indicated a high sensitivity of 75%, specificity of 75%, 
positive predictive value of 75% and negative predictive value of 75%. In 
addition, the online osteoporosis detective system had a higher predictive power 
(24·2% vs. 11%) and a similar cut-off point (33% vs. 27%) compared with the tool 
designed by the International Osteoporosis Foundation.
CONCLUSION: The online system for detection of osteoporosis risk had excellent 
reliability and validity. It performed well in predicting osteoporosis and the 
cut-off point used for identifying the risk among women at risk of developing 
osteoporosis. Therefore, it is suitable for the Asian women and can help women 
achieve the goals of early detection and health promotion.
RELEVANCE TO CLINICAL PRACTICE: Early detection is the only way to prevent 
osteoporosis. Professional nurses should apply effective technology to promote 
health care in community-dwelling people.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jocn.12209
PMID: 23876185 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Nurse Educ Today. 2014 Apr;34(4):520-5. doi: 10.1016/j.nedt.2013.07.001. Epub 
2013 Jul 23.

Associations between emotional intelligence, depression and suicide risk in 
nursing students.

Aradilla-Herrero A(1), Tomás-Sábado J(2), Gómez-Benito J(3).

Author information:
(1)Gimbernat Nursing School, Autonomous University of Barcelona, Barcelona, 
Spain. Electronic address: amor.aradilla@eug.es.
(2)Gimbernat Nursing School, Autonomous University of Barcelona, Barcelona, 
Spain.
(3)Faculty of Psychology and Institute for Brain, Cognition and Behaviour 
(IR3C), University of Barcelona, Barcelona Spain.

BACKGROUND: The most important factor which predisposes young people to suicide 
is depression, although protective factors such as self-esteem, emotional 
adaptation and social support may reduce the probability of suicidal ideation 
and suicide attempts. Several studies have indicated an elevated risk of suicide 
for health-related professions. Little is known, however, about the relationship 
between perceived emotional intelligence and suicide risk among nursing 
students.
OBJECTIVES: The main goals were to determine the prevalence of suicide risk in a 
sample of nursing students, to examine the relationship between suicide risk and 
perceived emotional intelligence, depression, trait anxiety and self-esteem, and 
to identify any gender differences in relation to these variables.
METHOD: Cross-sectional study of nursing students (n=93) who completed 
self-report measures of perceived emotional intelligence (Trait Meta-Mood Scale, 
which evaluates three dimensions: emotional attention, clarity and repair), 
suicide risk (Plutchik Suicide Risk Scale), self-esteem (Rosenberg Self-esteem 
Scale), depression (Zung Self-Rating Depression Scale) and anxiety (Trait scale 
of the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory).
RESULTS: Linear regression analysis confirmed that depression and emotional 
attention are significant predictors of suicidal ideation. Moreover, suicide 
risk showed a significant negative association with self-esteem and with 
emotional clarity and repair. Gender differences were only observed in relation 
to depression, on which women scored significantly higher. Overall, 14% of the 
students were considered to present a substantial suicide risk.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings suggest that interventions to prevent suicidal 
ideation among nursing students should include strategies to detect mood 
disorders (especially depression) and to improve emotional coping skills. In 
line with previous research the results indicate that high scores on emotional 
attention are linked to heightened emotional susceptibility and an increased 
risk of suicide. The identification and prevention of factors associated with 
suicidal behaviour in nursing students should be regarded as a priority.

© 2013.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nedt.2013.07.001
PMID: 23886906 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Am J Geriatr Psychiatry. 2014 Nov;22(11):1168-79. doi: 
10.1016/j.jagp.2013.03.006. Epub 2013 Jul 24.

Regional cortical thinning predicts worsening apathy and hallucinations across 
the Alzheimer disease spectrum.

Donovan NJ(1), Wadsworth LP(2), Lorius N(3), Locascio JJ(2), Rentz DM(4), 
Johnson KA(5), Sperling RA(3), Marshall GA(3); Alzheimer Disease Neuroimaging 
Initiative.

Author information:
(1)Center for Alzheimer Research and Treatment, Brigham and Women's Hospital, 
Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA; Department of Neurology, Brigham and Women's 
Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA; Department of Psychiatry, Brigham 
and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA. Electronic address: 
njdonovan@partners.org.
(2)Department of Neurology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, MA.
(3)Center for Alzheimer Research and Treatment, Brigham and Women's Hospital, 
Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA; Department of Neurology, Massachusetts 
General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA.
(4)Center for Alzheimer Research and Treatment, Brigham and Women's Hospital, 
Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA; Department of Neurology, Brigham and Women's 
Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA; Department of Psychiatry, Brigham 
and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA; Department of 
Neurology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA.
(5)Center for Alzheimer Research and Treatment, Brigham and Women's Hospital, 
Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA; Department of Radiology, Massachusetts 
General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA.

OBJECTIVES: To examine regions of cortical thinning and cerebrospinal fluid 
(CSF) Alzheimer disease (AD) biomarkers associated with apathy and 
hallucinations in a continuum of individuals including clinically normal 
elderly, mild cognitive impairment, and mild AD dementia.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional and longitudinal studies.
SETTING: Fifty-seven research sites across North America.
PARTICIPANTS: Eight-hundred twelve community-dwelling volunteers; 413 
participants in the CSF sub-study.
MEASUREMENTS: Structural magnetic resonance imaging data and CSF concentrations 
of amyloid-β 1-42, total tau, and phosphorylated tau derived from the Alzheimer 
Disease Neuroimaging Initiative database were analyzed. Apathy and 
hallucinations were measured at baseline and over 3 years using the 
Neuropsychiatric Inventory-Questionnaire. General linear models and mixed 
effects models were used to evaluate the relationships among baseline cortical 
thickness in seven regions, and baseline CSF biomarkers, apathy, and 
hallucinations at baseline and longitudinally. Covariates included diagnosis, 
sex, age, apolipoprotein E genotype, premorbid intelligence, memory performance, 
processing speed, antidepressant use, and AD duration.
RESULTS: Reduced baseline inferior temporal cortical thickness was predictive of 
increasing apathy over time, and reduced supramarginal cortical thickness was 
predictive of increasing hallucinations over time. There was no association with 
cortical thickness at baseline. CSF biomarkers were not related to severity of 
apathy or hallucinations in cross-sectional or longitudinal analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that greater baseline temporal and parietal 
atrophy is associated with worsening apathy and hallucinations in a large AD 
spectrum cohort, while adjusting for multiple disease-related variables. 
Localized cortical neurodegeneration may contribute to the pathophysiology of 
apathy and hallucinations and their adverse consequences in AD.

Copyright © 2014 American Association for Geriatric Psychiatry. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jagp.2013.03.006
PMCID: PMC3960369
PMID: 23890751 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST AND SOURCES OF FUNDING No 
disclosures to report.


89. Sch Psychol Q. 2014 Mar;29(1):38-51. doi: 10.1037/spq0000032. Epub 2013 Jul 29.

Construct validity of the WISC-IV with a referred sample: direct versus indirect 
hierarchical structures.

Canivez GL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Eastern Illinois University.

The Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children-Fourth Edition (WISC-IV) is one of 
the most frequently used intelligence tests in clinical assessments of children 
with learning difficulties. Construct validity studies of the WISC-IV have 
generally supported the higher order structure with four correlated first-order 
factors and one higher-order general intelligence factor, but recent studies 
have supported an alternate model in which general intelligence is 
conceptualized as a breadth factor rather than a superordinate factor (M. W. 
Watkins, 2010, Structure of the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children-Fourth 
Edition among a national sample of referred students, Psychological Assessment, 
Vol. 22, pp. 782-787; M. W. Watkins, G. L. Canivez, T. James, K. & R. Good, in 
press, Construct validity of the WISC-IVUK with a large referred Irish sample, 
International Journal of School and Educational Psychology). WISC-IV core 
subtest data obtained from evaluations to assess learning difficulties in 345 
children (224 boys, 121 girls) were examined. One through four, first order 
factor models and indirect versus direct hierarchical models were compared using 
confirmatory factor analyses. The correlated four-factor Wechsler model provided 
good fit to these data, but the direct hierarchical model showed statistically 
significant improvement over the indirect hierarchical model and correlated 
four-factor model. The direct hierarchical model was judged the best explanation 
of the WISC-IV factor structure, with the general factor accounting for 71.6% of 
the common variance while the first order factors accounted for 2.4-10.3% of the 
common variance. Thus, the results with the present sample of referred children 
were similar to those from other investigations (G. E. Gignac, 2005, Revisiting 
the factor structure of the WAIS-R: Insights through nested factor modeling, 
Assessment, Vol. 12, pp. 320-329; G. E. Gignac, 2006, The WAIS-III as a nested 
factors model: A useful alternative to the more conventional oblique and 
higher-order models, Journal of Individual Differences, Vol. 27, pp. 73-86; P. 
Golay, I. Reverte, J. Rossier, N. Favez, & T. Lecerf, 2012, Further insights on 
the French WISC-IV factor structure through Bayesian structural equation 
modeling. Psychological Assessment, advance online publication; M. W. Watkins, 
2010, Structure of the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children-Fourth Edition 
among a national sample of referred students, Psychological Assessment, Vol. 22, 
pp. 782-787; M. W. Watkins, G. L. Canivez, T. James, K. & R. Good, in press, 
Construct validity of the WISC-IV(UK) with a large referred Irish sample, 
International Journal of School and Educational Psychology) supporting primary 
interpretation of the Full Scale IQ rather than the factor index scores.

PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/spq0000032
PMID: 23895320 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. J Public Health (Oxf). 2014 Jun;36(2):213-24. doi: 10.1093/pubmed/fdt071. Epub 
2013 Jul 28.

Low birth weight and intelligence in adolescence and early adulthood: a 
meta-analysis.

Kormos CE(1), Wilkinson AJ(2), Davey CJ(2), Cunningham AJ(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Victoria, Victoria, Canada V8W 3P5.
(2)Department of Psychology, Ryerson University, Toronto, Canada M5B 2K3.
(3)Bridgepoint Health, Toronto, Canada M4M 2B5.

BACKGROUND: Research has demonstrated an association between low birth weight 
(LBW; <2500 g) and adverse intelligence quotient (IQ) outcomes in childhood and 
early adolescence. We systematically evaluated whether this association persists 
into late adolescence and early adulthood and also assessed the influence of age 
of IQ assessment on effect size.
METHODS: During Stage 1 (meta-analysis of data on adolescents/adults), we 
searched for relevant articles in PsychINFO, PubMed, Ovid, CINAHL, ProQuest and 
ERIC until February 2011 (no lower limit). Studies which assessed full-scale IQ 
among LBW individuals (<2500 g), aged 13 years and older, with a normal birth 
weight (NBW; ≥2500 g) comparison group were eligible. A random-effects 
meta-analysis provided a pooled estimate of the difference in IQ scores between 
LBW and NBW individuals. Publication bias was assessed using Rosenthal's classic 
fail-safe N and Duval and Tweedie's Trim and Fill. During Stage 2, we added data 
from the Kerr-Wilson et al. meta-analysis (which included data from children; in 
Meta-analysis of the association between preterm delivery and intelligence. 
Journal Public Health 2011;33:1-8) to our sample from Stage 1 and conducted a 
meta-regression to evaluate the effect of age of IQ assessment.
RESULTS: Using a total of 15 studies in Stage 1, it was demonstrated that NBW 
individuals scored an average of 7.63 IQ points higher than LBW individuals, CI 
= 5.95-9.31. After adjusting for publication bias, NBW samples demonstrated an 
IQ of 4.98 points higher than LBW samples, CI = 3.20-6.77. Furthermore, age at 
IQ assessment was a significant moderator of the association between birth 
weight and IQ, in that the effect size decreased from childhood into young 
adulthood.
CONCLUSIONS: Cognitive impairments associated with LBW persist into adolescence 
and early adulthood; however, the influence of LBW on IQ decreases from 
childhood to young adulthood. These conclusions must be interpreted with caution 
due to unmeasured variables and possible influence from publication bias.

© The Author 2013. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Faculty of 
Public Health. All rights reserved. For permissions, please e-mail: 
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/pubmed/fdt071
PMID: 23896861 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. Pharmacotherapy. 2014 Mar;34(3):251-9. doi: 10.1002/phar.1333. Epub 2013 Jul 29.

Palivizumab prophylaxis during nosocomial outbreaks of respiratory syncytial 
virus in a neonatal intensive care unit: predicting effectiveness with an 
artificial neural network model.

Saadah LM(1), Chedid FD, Sohail MR, Nazzal YM, Al Kaabi MR, Rahmani AY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Zayed Military Hospital, Abu Dhabi, United Arab 
Emirates.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To identify subgroups of premature infants who may benefit from 
palivizumab prophylaxis during nosocomial outbreaks of respiratory syncytial 
virus (RSV) infection.
DESIGN: Retrospective analysis using an artificial intelligence model.
SETTING: Level IIIB, 35-bed, neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) at a tertiary 
care hospital in the United Arab Emirates.
PATIENTS: One hundred seventy six premature infants, born at a gestational age 
of 22-34 weeks, and hospitalized during four RSV outbreaks that occurred between 
April 2005 and July 2007.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: We collected demographic and clinical data for 
each patient by using a standardized form. Input data consisted of seven 
categoric and continuous variables each. We trained, tested, and validated 
artificial neural networks for three outcomes of interest: mortality, days of 
supplemental oxygen, and length of NICU stay after the index case was 
identified. We compared variable impacts and performed reassignments with live 
predictions to evaluate the effect of palivizumab. Of the 176 infants, 31 
(17.6%) received palivizumab during the outbreaks. All neural network 
configurations converged within 4 seconds in less than 400 training cycles. 
Infants who received palivizumab required supplemental oxygen for a shorter 
duration compared with controls (105.2 ± 7.2 days vs 113.2 ± 10.4 days, 
p=0.003). This benefit was statistically significant in male infants whose birth 
weight was less than 0.7 kg and who had hemodynamically significant congenital 
heart disease. Length of NICU stay after identification of the index case and 
mortality were independent of palivizumab use.
CONCLUSION: Palivizumab may be an effective intervention during nosocomial 
outbreaks of RSV in a subgroup of extremely low-birth-weight male infants with 
hemodynamically significant congenital heart disease.

© 2013 Pharmacotherapy Publications, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/phar.1333
PMID: 23897635 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. Psychol Res. 2014 Jul;78(4):549-56. doi: 10.1007/s00426-013-0505-9. Epub 2013 
Aug 2.

The impact of finger counting habits on arithmetic in adults and children.

Newman SD(1), Soylu F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences, Indiana University, 
Bloomington, IN, 47405, USA, sdnewman@indiana.edu.

Here, we explored the impact of finger counting habits on arithmetic in both 
adults and children. Two groups of participants were examined, those that begin 
counting with their left hand (left-starters) and those that begin counting with 
their right hand (right-starters). For the adults, performance on an addition 
task in which participants added 2 two-digit numbers was compared. The results 
revealed that left-starters were slower than right-starters when adding and they 
had lower forward and backward digit-span scores. The children (aged 5-12) 
showed similar results on a single-digit timed addition task-right-starters 
outperformed left-starters. However, the children did not reveal differences in 
working memory or verbal and non-verbal intelligence as a function of finger 
counting habit. We argue that the motor act of finger counting influences how 
number is represented and suggest that left-starters may have a more bilateral 
representation that accounts for the slower processing.

DOI: 10.1007/s00426-013-0505-9
PMID: 23907537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Diagn Cytopathol. 2014 Mar;42(3):218-24. doi: 10.1002/dc.23026. Epub 2013 Aug 1.

Artificial neural network in breast lesions from fine-needle aspiration cytology 
smear.

Subbaiah RM(1), Dey P, Nijhawan R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and 
Research, Chandigarh, India.

Artificial neural networks (ANNs) are applied in engineering and certain medical 
fields. ANN has immense potential and is rarely been used in breast lesions. In 
this present study, we attempted to build up a complete robust back propagation 
ANN model based on cytomorphological data, morphometric data, nuclear 
densitometric data, and gray level co-occurrence matrix (GLCM) of ductal 
carcinoma and fibroadenomas of breast cases diagnosed on fine-needle aspiration 
cytology (FNAC). We selected 52 cases of fibroadenomas and 60 cases of 
infiltrating ductal carcinoma of breast diagnosed on FNAC by two cytologists. 
Essential cytological data was quantitated by two independent cytologists (SRM, 
PD). With the help of Image J software, nuclear morphomeric, densitometric, and 
GLCM features were measured in all the cases on hematoxylin and eosin-stained 
smears. With the available data, an ANN model was built up with the help of 
Neurointelligence software. The network was designed as 41-20-1 (41 input nodes, 
20 hidden nodes, 1 output node). The network was trained by the online back 
propagation algorithm and 500 iterations were done. Learning was adjusted after 
every iteration. ANN model correctly identified all cases of fibroadenomas and 
infiltrating carcinomas in the test set. This is one of the first successful 
composite ANN models of breast carcinomas. This basic model can be used to 
diagnose the gray zone area of the breast lesions on FNAC. We assume that this 
model may have far-reaching implications in future.

Copyright © 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/dc.23026
PMID: 23908018 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. IEEE Trans Cybern. 2014 Jun;44(6):843-56. doi: 10.1109/TCYB.2013.2273495. Epub 
2013 Jul 30.

KANTS: a stigmergic ant algorithm for cluster analysis and swarm art.

Fernandes CM, Mora AM, Merelo JJ, Rosa AC.

KANTS is a swarm intelligence clustering algorithm inspired by the behavior of 
social insects. It uses stigmergy as a strategy for clustering large datasets 
and, as a result, displays a typical behavior of complex systems: 
self-organization and global patterns emerging from the local interaction of 
simple units. This paper introduces a simplified version of KANTS and describes 
recent experiments with the algorithm in the context of a contemporary artistic 
and scientific trend called swarm art, a type of generative art in which swarm 
intelligence systems are used to create artwork or ornamental objects. KANTS is 
used here for generating color drawings from the input data that represent 
real-world phenomena, such as electroencephalogram sleep data. However, the main 
proposal of this paper is an art project based on well-known abstract paintings, 
from which the chromatic values are extracted and used as input. Colors and 
shapes are therefore reorganized by KANTS, which generates its own 
interpretation of the original artworks. The project won the 2012 Evolutionary 
Art, Design, and Creativity Competition.

DOI: 10.1109/TCYB.2013.2273495
PMID: 23912505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Hum Brain Mapp. 2014 May;35(5):1957-68. doi: 10.1002/hbm.22305. Epub 2013 Aug 2.

Subcortical regional morphology correlates with fluid and spatial intelligence.

Burgaleta M(1), MacDonald PA, Martínez K, Román FJ, Álvarez-Linera J, Ramos 
González A, Karama S, Colom R.

Author information:
(1)Center for Brain and Cognition, Universitat Pompeu Fabra, Barcelona, Spain; 
Facultad de Psicología, Universidad Autónoma de Madrid, Madrid, Spain; Fundación 
CIEN-Fundación Reina Sofía, Madrid, Spain.

Neuroimaging studies have revealed associations between intelligence and brain 
morphology. However, researchers have focused primarily on the anatomical 
features of the cerebral cortex, whereas subcortical structures, such as the 
basal ganglia (BG), have often been neglected despite extensive functional 
evidence on their relation with higher-order cognition. Here we performed shape 
analyses to understand how individual differences in BG local morphology account 
for variability in cognitive performance. Structural MRI was acquired in 104 
young adults (45 men, 59 women, mean age = 19.83, SD = 1.64), and the outer 
surface of striatal structures (caudate, nucleus accumbens, and putamen), globus 
pallidus, and thalamus was estimated for each subject and hemisphere. Further, 
nine cognitive tests were used to measure fluid (Gf), crystallized (Gc), and 
spatial intelligence (Gv). Latent scores for these factors were computed by 
means of confirmatory factor analysis and regressed vertex-wise against 
subcortical shape (local displacements of vertex position), controlling for age, 
sex, and adjusted for brain size. Significant results (FDR < 5%) were found for 
Gf and Gv, but not Gc, for the right striatal structures and thalamus. The main 
results show a relative enlargement of the rostral putamen, which is 
functionally connected to the right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and other 
intelligence-related prefrontal areas.

Copyright © 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/hbm.22305
PMCID: PMC6869737
PMID: 23913782 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Hist Psychol. 2014 Aug;17(3):206-22. doi: 10.1037/a0033339. Epub 2013 Aug 5.

Aims of teachers' psychometry: intelligence testing in Barcelona (1920).

Mülberger A(1), Balltondre M(1), Graus A(1).

Author information:
(1)CEHIC/Department Psicologia Bàsica, Facultat de Psicologia, Universitat 
Autònoma de Barcelona.

After World War I, members of the teaching profession in Spain were interested 
in appropriating psychological measurement and bringing it within the expertise 
of their occupational field, with the intention of upgrading their profession. 
As professionals devoted to the child, educators attempted to explore the 
infantile psyche using intelligence tests, with the intention of making 
scientific contributions to the field of psychology. In the present article we 
take as a key event one particular application enacted by a Catalan teacher, and 
insert that case study into the complex local scientific and educational 
context. It was a context in which the professional interests of teachers 
competed with those of school physicians, psychologists, and pedologists, at a 
time when important changes in pedagogical methods and school systems were under 
way. In the hand of teachers, intelligence testing was mainly seen as a 
malleable method on which to base daily educational practice on a more 
individualized and scientific basis. The historical analysis of the case turned 
out to be instrumental in the identification of common features and 
particularities attributable to specific local needs. In a society where public 
schooling competed with private schools, the results of mental testing were used 
to demonstrate publicly the excellent intellectual level of children attending a 
public graded primary school in Barcelona. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 
APA, all rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/a0033339
PMID: 23914847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. Eur J Sport Sci. 2014;14(5):403-9. doi: 10.1080/17461391.2013.825645. Epub 2013 
Aug 7.

Tactical proficiency among table tennis players with and without intellectual 
disabilities.

Van Biesen D(1), Mactavish J, Vanlandewijck Y.

Author information:
(1)a Department of Rehabilitation Sciences , KU Leuven , Leuven , Belgium.

The effect of intellectual impairment on sports performance has received limited 
attention by researchers. As a contribution to closing this gap, the purpose of 
the present investigation was to examine the differences in tactical proficiency 
between table tennis players with and without intellectual disabilities (ID). 
These groups were matched for training-volume and experience and consisted of 41 
male (age = 27±8) and 30 female (age= 28±8) elite players with ID and a 
reference group of 12 male (age= 24±12) and 5 female (age= 20±9) players without 
ID. In two different test settings - one a World Championship and the other a 
training camp - the players in each group performed 60 semi-standardised rallies 
against the same opponent. Players were told that 12 sets of five identical 
services would be delivered, and their goal was to return the service with the 
intention of 'winning the point'. The test results were validated for this 
study, to compute tactical proficiency scores (maximal score of eight points) 
for each player. A two-way Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) revealed significantly 
lower proficiency scores for players with ID than for those without ID. 
Repeated-measures ANOVA revealed that within each series of five rallies, 
starting with identical services, all participants were able to significantly 
improve their tactical proficiency gradually, but players without ID scored 
4.3±0.5 from the first ball on, and while athletes with ID only 3.3±0.7 after 
five balls. The results of this study indicate that ID is associated with 
decreased tactical proficiency in table tennis.

DOI: 10.1080/17461391.2013.825645
PMID: 23923980 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. Ergonomics. 2014;57(3):374-86. doi: 10.1080/00140139.2013.822566. Epub 2013 Aug 
7.

Similarities and differences of emotions in human-machine and human-human 
interactions: what kind of emotions are relevant for future companion systems?

Walter S(1), Wendt C, Böhnke J, Crawcour S, Tan JW, Chan A, Limbrecht K, Gruss 
S, Traue HC.

Author information:
(1)a Medical Psychology , Ulm University , Ulm , Germany.

Cognitive-technical intelligence is envisioned to be constantly available and 
capable of adapting to the user's emotions. However, the question is: what 
specific emotions should be reliably recognised by intelligent systems? Hence, 
in this study, we have attempted to identify similarities and differences of 
emotions between human-human (HHI) and human-machine interactions (HMI). We 
focused on what emotions in the experienced scenarios of HMI are retroactively 
reflected as compared with HHI. The sample consisted of N = 145 participants, 
who were divided into two groups. Positive and negative scenario descriptions of 
HMI and HHI were given by the first and second groups, respectively. 
Subsequently, the participants evaluated their respective scenarios with the 
help of 94 adjectives relating to emotions. The correlations between the 
occurrences of emotions in the HMI versus HHI were very high. The results do not 
support the statement that only a few emotions in HMI are relevant.

DOI: 10.1080/00140139.2013.822566
PMID: 23924061 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. Psychol Med. 2014 Jun;44(8):1751-64. doi: 10.1017/S0033291713001955. Epub 2013 
Aug 9.

Neural substrates of behavioral variability in attention deficit hyperactivity 
disorder: based on ex-Gaussian reaction time distribution and diffusion spectrum 
imaging tractography.

Lin HY(1), Gau SS(1), Huang-Gu SL(2), Shang CY(1), Wu YH(3), Tseng WY(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, National Taiwan University Hospital, Taipei, 
Taiwan.
(2)Graduate Institute of Behavioral Sciences and Department of Occupational 
Therapy, College of Medicine, Chang Gung University, Kwei-Shan, Tao-Yuan, 
Taiwan.
(3)School of Medicine, National Taiwan University College of Medicine, Taipei, 
Taiwan.
(4)Graduate Institute of Brain and Mind Sciences, National Taiwan University 
College of Medicine, Taipei, Taiwan.

BACKGROUND: Increased intra-individual variability (IIV) in reaction time (RT) 
across various tasks is one ubiquitous neuropsychological finding in attention 
deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). However, neurobiological underpinnings of 
IIV in individuals with ADHD have not yet been fully delineated. The ex-Gaussian 
distribution has been proved to capture IIV in RT. The authors explored the 
three parameters [μ (mu), σ (sigma), τ (tau)] of an ex-Gaussian RT distribution 
derived from the Conners' continuous performance test (CCPT) and their 
correlations with the microstructural integrity of the frontostriatal-caudate 
tracts and the cingulum bundles.
METHOD: We assessed 28 youths with ADHD (8-17 years; 25 males) and 28 age-, 
sex-, IQ- and handedness-matched typically developing (TD) youths using the 
CCPT, Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children, 3rd edition and magnetic 
resonance imaging (MRI). Microstructural integrity, indexed by generalized 
fractional anisotropy (GFA), was measured by diffusion spectrum imaging 
tractrography on a 3-T MRI system.
RESULTS: Youths with ADHD had larger σ (s.d. of Gaussian distribution) and τ 
(mean of exponential distribution) and reduced GFA in four bilateral 
frontostriatal tracts. With increased inter-stimulus intervals of CCPT, the 
magnitude of greater τ in ADHD than TD increased. In ADHD youths, the cingulum 
bundles and frontostriatal integrity were associated with three ex-Gaussian 
parameters and with μ (mean of Gaussian distribution) and τ, respectively; while 
only frontostriatal GFA was associated with μ and τ in TD youths.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest the crucial role of the integrity of the 
cingulum bundles in accounting for IIV in ADHD. Involvement of different brain 
systems in mediating IIV may relate to a distinctive pathophysiological 
processing and/or adaptive compensatory mechanism.

DOI: 10.1017/S0033291713001955
PMID: 23931705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. Arch Pathol Lab Med. 2014 Apr;138(4):526-37. doi: 10.5858/arpa.2013-0250-CP. 
Epub 2013 Aug 12.

A call to standardize preanalytic data elements for biospecimens.

Robb JA(1), Gulley ML, Fitzgibbons PL, Kennedy MF, Cosentino LM, Washington K, 
Dash RC, Branton PA, Jewell SD, Lapham RL.

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Pathology, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill 
(Dr Gulley); the Department of Pathology, St Jude Medical Center, Fullerton, 
California (Dr Fitzgibbons); the College of American Pathologists, Northfield, 
Illinois (Ms Kennedy); the Department of Translational Medicine, Biogen Idec, 
Cambridge, Massachusetts (Dr Cosentino); the Department of Pathology, Vanderbilt 
Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee (Dr Washington); the Department of 
Pathology, Duke Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina (Dr Dash); the 
Biorepositories and Biospecimens Research Branch, National Cancer Institute, 
National Institutes of Health, Rockville, Maryland (Dr Branton); the Department 
of Biospecimen Science, Van Andel Institute, Grand Rapids, Michigan (Dr Jewell); 
and the Department of Pathology, Spartanburg Regional Medical Center, 
Spartanburg, South Carolina (Dr Lapham).

Comment in
    Arch Pathol Lab Med. 2014 Apr;138(4):452.

CONTEXT: Biospecimens must have appropriate clinical annotation (data) to ensure 
optimal quality for both patient care and research. Clinical preanalytic 
variables are the focus of this study.
OBJECTIVE: To define the essential preanalytic variables (data fields) that 
should be attached to every collected biospecimen and to provide a complete list 
of such variables, along with their relative importance, which can vary, 
depending on downstream use, institutional needs, and information technology 
capabilities.
DESIGN: The College of American Pathologists Diagnostic Intelligence and Health 
Information Technology Committee sponsored a Biorepository Working Group to 
develop a ranked list of the preanalytic variables for annotating biospecimens. 
Members of the working group were experts in anatomic, clinical, and molecular 
pathology; biobanking; medical informatics; and accreditation. Several members 
had experience with federal government programs, such as the National Cancer 
Institute's Biospecimens and Biorepository Branch and the National Cancer 
Institute's Community Cancer Center Program. Potential preanalytic variables 
were identified and ranked along with available supporting evidence, 
definitions, and potential negative effects if the variable was not attached to 
the biospecimen. Additional national and international stakeholders reviewed the 
draft manuscript.
RESULTS: The ranked listing of 170 preanalytic variables produced can be used as 
a guide for site-specific implementation into patient care and/or research 
biorepository processes. Conclusions.-In our collective experience, it is often 
difficult to choose which of the many preanalytic variables to attach to any 
specific set of biospecimens used for patient care and/or research. The provided 
ranked list should aid in the selection of preanalytic variables for a given 
biospecimen collection.

DOI: 10.5858/arpa.2013-0250-CP
PMCID: PMC6446924
PMID: 23937609 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. J Appl Psychol. 2014 Jan;99(1):125-37. doi: 10.1037/a0034138. Epub 2013 Aug 19.

Emotionally unskilled, unaware, and uninterested in learning more: reactions to 
feedback about deficits in emotional intelligence.

Sheldon OJ(1), Dunning D(2), Ames DR(3).

Author information:
(1)Rutgers Business School-Newark and New Brunswick, Rutgers University.
(2)Department of Psychology, Cornell University.
(3)Columbia Business School, Columbia University.

Despite the importance of self-awareness for managerial success, many 
organizational members hold overly optimistic views of their expertise and 
performance-a phenomenon particularly prevalent among those least skilled in a 
given domain. We examined whether this same pattern extends to appraisals of 
emotional intelligence (EI), a critical managerial competency. We also examined 
why this overoptimism tends to survive explicit feedback about performance. 
Across 3 studies involving professional students, we found that the least 
skilled had limited insight into deficits in their performance. Moreover, when 
given concrete feedback, low performers disparaged either the accuracy or the 
relevance of that feedback, depending on how expediently they could do so. 
Consequently, they expressed more reluctance than top performers to pursue 
various paths to self-improvement, including purchasing a book on EI or paying 
for professional coaching. Paradoxically, it was top performers who indicated a 
stronger desire to improve their EI following feedback.

PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved

DOI: 10.1037/a0034138
PMID: 23957689 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. Tob Control. 2014 May;23(e1):e44-50. doi: 10.1136/tobaccocontrol-2013-050957. 
Epub 2013 Aug 19.

Countering the demand for, and supply of, illicit tobacco: an assessment of the 
'North of England Tackling Illicit Tobacco for Better Health' Programme.

McNeill A(1), Iringe-Koko B(2), Bains M(3), Bauld L(4), Siggens G(5), Russell 
A(6).

Author information:
(1)Addictions Department, Institute of Psychiatry, UK Centre for Tobacco Control 
Studies, King's College London, London, UK.
(2)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, University College London, 
London, UK.
(3)Division of Epidemiology and Public Health, University of Nottingham, 
Nottingham, UK.
(4)Socio-Management, University of Stirling, UK Centre for Tobacco Control 
Studies, Stirling, UK.
(5)NEMS Market Research Ltd, Billingham, UK.
(6)Department of Anthropology, Durham University, Durham, UK.

BACKGROUND: Illicit tobacco (IT) undermines the effectiveness of tobacco control 
strategies. We assessed the implementation and impact of a new programme 
designed to reduce demand for, as well as supply of, IT, in the north of 
England, where IT was prevalent.
METHODS: 'Mixed methods' research was undertaken. Qualitative methods included 
stakeholder interviews (at outset and 1 year later) and ethnographic research. 
Indicators reflecting those supply and demand issues for which data were 
available were identified and monitored, including relevant items on two 
cross-sectional surveys carried out in 2009 and 2011 with over 4000 individuals 
from which a social marketing campaign was also developed. IT reports to two 
existing hotlines, promoted through the programme, were assessed.
RESULTS: Initially, concerns abounded about the different philosophies and ways 
of working of local and national enforcement and health agencies, but these were 
much reduced at follow-up. A protocol was developed which greatly facilitated 
the flow of intelligence about IT supply. A social marketing campaign was 
developed highlighting two messages: IT makes it easier for children to start 
smoking and brings crime into the community, thereby avoiding misleading 
messages about relative harms of illicit and licit tobacco. Public and 
stakeholder awareness of IT increased as did calls to both hotlines.
CONCLUSIONS: A partnership of agencies, with competing values, was established 
to tackle IT, a complex public health issue and, inter alia, implemented a 
social marketing campaign using novel messages. This improved the flow of 
intelligence about the supply of IT and increased awareness of IT.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not 
already granted under a licence) please go to 
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

DOI: 10.1136/tobaccocontrol-2013-050957
PMCID: PMC4078700
PMID: 23958644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. Clin Rehabil. 2014 Mar;28(3):221-31. doi: 10.1177/0269215513498609. Epub 2013 
Aug 20.

The influence of sprint interval training on body composition, physical and 
metabolic fitness in adolescents and young adults with intellectual disability: 
a randomized controlled trial.

Boer PH(1), Meeus M, Terblanche E, Rombaut L, Wandele ID, Hermans L, Gysel T, 
Ruige J, Calders P.

Author information:
(1)1Department of Sport Science, North West University, Mafikeng, South Africa.

OBJECTIVE: In this study we evaluated the effect of sprint interval training on 
metabolic and physical fitness in adolescents and young adults with intellectual 
disabilities when compared with continuous aerobic training and no training 
(control).
METHODS: Fifty-four persons with intellectual disabilities (age: 17 (3.0), body 
mass index: 27.7 (3.7), intelligence quotient: 59 (8.6)) were matched based on 
age, gender and intelligence quotient between sprint interval training (n = 17), 
continuous aerobic training (n = 15) and control (n = 14). Sprint interval 
training was composed of three blocks of 10 minutes at ventilatory threshold 
(blocks 1 and 3: 10 sprint bouts of 15 seconds, followed by 45 seconds relative 
rest; block 2: continuous training) twice a week for 15 weeks. Continuous 
aerobic training was composed of three blocks of 10 minutes continuous training. 
After eight weeks, intensity was increased to 110% of ventilatory threshold. The 
control group did not participate in supervised exercise training. Before and 
after the training period, body composition, physical and metabolic fitness were 
evaluated.
RESULTS: Sprint interval training showed a significant positive evolution for 
waist circumference, fat%, systolic blood pressure, lipid profile, fasting 
insulin, homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance, peak VO2, peak 
Watt, ventilatory threshold, 6-minute walk distance and muscle fatigue 
resistance when compared with no training (P < 0.01). The sprint interval 
training group demonstrated significant improvements for fat%, systolic blood 
pressure, low-density lipoprotein, fasting insulin, peak VO2 and peak power and 
ventilatory threshold (P < 0.01) when compared with continuous aerobic training.
CONCLUSION: In this study we could observe that sprint interval training has 
stronger beneficial effects on body composition, physical fitness and metabolic 
fitness compared with control. Compared with continuous aerobic training, sprint 
interval training seems to result in better outcome.

DOI: 10.1177/0269215513498609
PMID: 23963438 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. Brain Dev. 2014 Jun;36(6):516-22. doi: 10.1016/j.braindev.2013.07.006. Epub 2013 
Aug 20.

Speech intonation in children with autism spectrum disorder.

Nakai Y(1), Takashima R(2), Takiguchi T(2), Takada S(3).

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Health Sciences, Kobe University, Kobe, Japan; Department 
of Nursing Childcare, Kawasaki College of Allied Health Professions, Kurashiki, 
Japan. Electronic address: nakai@jc.kawasaki-m.ac.jp.
(2)Graduate School of System Informatics, Kobe University, Kobe, Japan.
(3)Graduate School of Health Sciences, Kobe University, Kobe, Japan.

OBJECTIVE: The prosody of children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) has 
several abnormal features. We assessed the speech tone of children with ASD and 
of children with typical development (TD) by using a new quantitative acoustic 
analysis.
METHODS: Our study participants consisted of 63 children (26 with ASD and 37 
with TD). The participants were divided into 4 groups based on their 
developmental features and age. We assessed the variety of the fundamental 
frequency (F0) pattern quantitatively, using pitch coefficient of variation 
(CV), considering the different F0 mean for each word.
RESULTS: (1) No significant difference was observed between the ASD and TD group 
at pre-school age. However, the TD group exhibited significantly greater pitch 
CV than the ASD group at school age. (2) In pitch CV, range and standard 
deviation of the whole speech of each participant, no significant differences 
were observed between the type of participants and age. (3) No significant 
correlation was found between the pitch CV of each word and the Japanese Autism 
Screening Questionnaire total score, or between the pitch CV of each word and 
the intelligence quotient levels in the ASD group. A significant correlation was 
observed between the pitch CV of each word and social reciprocal interaction 
score.
CONCLUSIONS: We assessed the speech tone of children with ASD by using a new 
quantitative method. Monotonous speech in school-aged children with ASD was 
detected. The extent of monotonous speech was related to the extent of social 
reciprocal interaction in children with ASD.

Copyright © 2013 The Japanese Society of Child Neurology. Published by Elsevier 
B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.braindev.2013.07.006
PMID: 23973369 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Environ Monit Assess. 2014 Jan;186(1):35-45. doi: 10.1007/s10661-013-3353-6. 
Epub 2013 Aug 23.

Modeling of nitrate concentration in groundwater using artificial intelligence 
approach--a case study of Gaza coastal aquifer.

Alagha JS(1), Said MA, Mogheir Y.

Author information:
(1)School of Civil Engineering, Universiti Sains Malaysia, 14300, Nibong Tebal, 
Pulau Pinang, Malaysia.

Nitrate concentration in groundwater is influenced by complex and interrelated 
variables, leading to great difficulty during the modeling process. The 
objectives of this study are (1) to evaluate the performance of two artificial 
intelligence (AI) techniques, namely artificial neural networks and support 
vector machine, in modeling groundwater nitrate concentration using scant input 
data, as well as (2) to assess the effect of data clustering as a pre-modeling 
technique on the developed models' performance. The AI models were developed 
using data from 22 municipal wells of the Gaza coastal aquifer in Palestine from 
2000 to 2010. Results indicated high simulation performance, with the 
correlation coefficient and the mean average percentage error of the best model 
reaching 0.996 and 7 %, respectively. The variables that strongly influenced 
groundwater nitrate concentration were previous nitrate concentration, 
groundwater recharge, and on-ground nitrogen load of each land use land cover 
category in the well's vicinity. The results also demonstrated the merit of 
performing clustering of input data prior to the application of AI models. With 
their high performance and simplicity, the developed AI models can be 
effectively utilized to assess the effects of future management scenarios on 
groundwater nitrate concentration, leading to more reasonable groundwater 
resources management and decision-making.

DOI: 10.1007/s10661-013-3353-6
PMID: 23974533 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


106. Brain Topogr. 2014 Mar;27(2):271-8. doi: 10.1007/s10548-013-0309-7. Epub 2013 
Aug 22.

Electrophysiological correlates of connotative meaning in healthy children.

Skrandies W(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Physiology, Justus-Liebig University, Aulweg 129, 35392, 
Giessen, Germany, wolfgang.skrandies@physiologie.med.uni-giessen.de.

The affective, connotative meaning of words can be statistically quantified by 
the semantic differential technique. Words that are located clearly on one of 
the three dimensions called "Evaluation", "Potency", and "Activity" were used as 
visual stimuli in a topographic event related potential study (ERP). Stimuli had 
been statistically defined in a group of 249 children (Skrandies, Jpn Psychol 
Res 53: 65-76, 2011). We investigated electrical brain activity in 19 healthy 
children with normal intelligence and reading skills between 11 and 15 years of 
age. Words that belonged to different semantic classes were presented at random 
on a monitor, and EEG was measured from 30 channels. Evoked potentials were 
computed offline for each semantic class. In the ERP data we observed 
significant effects of word class on component latency, field strength and 
topography. Similar as with adult subjects such effects occurred at small 
latency of about 115 ms after word presentation. The language-evoked components 
in children were similar but not identical to those reported previously for 
various groups of adults. Our data show that visually evoked brain activity is 
modulated by connotative meaning of the stimuli at early processing stages not 
only in adults but also in children.

DOI: 10.1007/s10548-013-0309-7
PMID: 23974725 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107. Neuromolecular Med. 2014 Mar;16(1):94-105. doi: 10.1007/s12017-013-8260-z. Epub 
2013 Aug 28.

Low glucose utilization and neurodegenerative changes caused by sodium fluoride 
exposure in rat's developmental brain.

Jiang C(1), Zhang S, Liu H, Guan Z, Zeng Q, Zhang C, Lei R, Xia T, Wang Z, Yang 
L, Chen Y, Wu X, Zhang X, Cui Y, Yu L, Wang A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Health and MOE Key Lab of Environment and Health, 
School of Public, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and 
Technology, Hangkong Road 13, Wuhan, 430030, Hubei, People's Republic of China.

Fluorine, a toxic and reactive element, is widely prevalent throughout the 
environment and can induce toxicity when absorbed into the body. This study was 
to explore the possible mechanisms of developmental neurotoxicity in rats 
treated with different levels of sodium fluoride (NaF). The rats' intelligence, 
as well as changes in neuronal morphology, glucose absorption, and functional 
gene expression within the brain were determined using the Morris water maze 
test, transmission electron microscopy, small-animal magnetic resonance imaging 
and Positron emission tomography and computed tomography, and Western blotting 
techniques. We found that NaF treatment-impaired learning and memory in these 
rats. Furthermore, NaF caused neuronal degeneration, decreased brain glucose 
utilization, decreased the protein expression of glucose transporter 1 and glial 
fibrillary acidic protein, and increased levels of brain-derived neurotrophic 
factor in the rat brains. The developmental neurotoxicity of fluoride may be 
closely associated with low glucose utilization and neurodegenerative changes.

DOI: 10.1007/s12017-013-8260-z
PMID: 23982469 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


108. Soc Cogn Affect Neurosci. 2014 Oct;9(10):1464-71. doi: 10.1093/scan/nst140. Epub 
2013 Aug 29.

A neuroimaging investigation of attribute framing and individual differences.

Murch KB(1), Krawczyk DC(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, 
Dallas, TX, USA 75390 and Center for BrainHealth®, School of Behavioral and 
Brain Sciences, The University of Texas at Dallas, Dallas, TX, USA 75235.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, 
Dallas, TX, USA 75390 and Center for BrainHealth®, School of Behavioral and 
Brain Sciences, The University of Texas at Dallas, Dallas, TX, USA 75235 
Department of Psychiatry, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, 
Dallas, TX, USA 75390 and Center for BrainHealth®, School of Behavioral and 
Brain Sciences, The University of Texas at Dallas, Dallas, TX, USA 75235 
daniel.krawczyk@utdallas.edu.

Functional magnetic resonance imaging was used to evaluate the neural basis of 
framing effects. We tested the reflexive and reflective systems model of social 
cognition as it relates to framing. We also examined the relationships among 
frame susceptibility, intelligence and personality measures. Participants 
evaluated whether personal attributes applied to themselves from multiple 
perspectives and in positive and negative frames. Participants rated whether 
each statement was descriptive or not and endorsed positive frames more than 
negative frames. Individual differences on frame decisions enabled us to form 
high and low frame susceptibility groups. Endorsement of frame-consistent 
attributes was associated with personality factors, cognitive reflection and 
intelligence. Reflexive brain regions were associated with positive frames while 
reflective areas were associated with negative frames. Region of Interest 
analyses showed that frame-inconsistent responses were associated with increased 
activation within reflective cognitive control regions including the left 
dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (PFC), dorsomedial PFC and left ventrolateral 
PFC. Frame-consistent responses were associated with increased activation in the 
right orbitofrontal cortex. These results demonstrate that individual 
differences in frame susceptibility influence personal attribute evaluations. 
Overall, this study clarifies the neural correlates of the reflective and 
reflexive systems of social cognition as applied to decisions about social 
attributions.

© The Author (2013). Published by Oxford University Press. For Permissions, 
please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/scan/nst140
PMCID: PMC4187265
PMID: 23988759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


109. J Autism Dev Disord. 2014 Mar;44(3):627-35. doi: 10.1007/s10803-013-1913-9.

Gender and age differences in the core triad of impairments in autism spectrum 
disorders: a systematic review and meta-analysis.

Van Wijngaarden-Cremers PJ(1), van Eeten E, Groen WB, Van Deurzen PA, Oosterling 
IJ, Van der Gaag RJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Addiction and Developmental Psychiatry, Dimence GGz Zwolle, 
Grasdorpstraat 6, 8012EN, Zwolle, The Netherlands, p.vanwijngaarden@dimence.nl.

Autism is an extensively studied disorder in which the gender disparity in 
prevalence has received much attention. In contrast, only a few studies examine 
gender differences in symptomatology. This systematic review and meta-analysis 
of 22 peer reviewed original publications examines gender differences in the 
core triad of impairments in autism. Gender differences were transformed and 
concatenated using standardized mean differences, and analyses were stratified 
in five age categories (toddlerhood, preschool children, childhood, adolescence, 
young adulthood). Boys showed more repetitive and stereotyped behavior as from 
the age of six, but not below the age of six. Males and females did not differ 
in the domain of social behavior and communication. There is an 
underrepresentation of females with ASD an average to high intelligence. Females 
could present another autistic phenotype than males. As ASD is now defined 
according to the male phenotype this could imply that there is an ascertainment 
bias. More research is needed into the female phenotype of ASD with development 
of appropriate instruments to detect and ascertain them.

DOI: 10.1007/s10803-013-1913-9
PMID: 23989936 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


110. Kardiol Pol. 2014;72(2):134-9. doi: 10.5603/KP.a2013.0215. Epub 2013 Aug 30.

Cognitive impairment after appropriate implantable cardioverter-defibrillator 
therapy for ventricular fibrillation.

Hałas K, Krzyżanowski K(1), Krzyżanowska E, Smurzyński P, Ryczek R, 
Michałkiewicz D, Orski Z, Makowski K, Wierzbowski R, Gielerak G.

Author information:
(1)Wojskowy Instytut Medyczny. krystian.krzyzanowski@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Short periods of cerebral ischaemia during ventricular 
defibrillation testing may be associated with neuropsychological impairment. 
However, the impact of out-of-hospital ventricular fibrillation (VF) converted 
by implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) shock on cognitive functioning 
is unknown.
AIM: To assess the impact of out-of-hospital VF converted by ICD shock on 
cognitive functioning.
METHODS: The study included 52 primary prevention ICD recipients. Patients with 
a history of stroke or other neurological impairment, previous head injury and 
individuals unable to see or speak to complete neuropsychological tests were not 
included.Initially, a Mini-Mental State Examination was performed in all 
patients and one patient with a result below 24 points was excluded from the 
study. The cognitive battery consisted of four tests (six measurements): 1) the 
Digit Span subtest of Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Revised; 2) the Digit 
Symbol subtest of Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Revised; 3) the 
Halstead-Reitan Trail-Making Test A and B; and 4) the Ruff Figural Fluency Test.
RESULTS: The mean time from ICD implantation to cognitive assessment was 26 
months. During this period, 15 appropriate shocks for VF were observed in seven 
(14%) patients. The patients with appropriate ICD therapy were significantly 
worse in two out of the six neuropsychological measurements and had a 
significantly lower aggregate result. In multivariate linear regression 
analysis, defibrillation therapy was an independent factor of poor cognitive 
functioning, along with age and education.
CONCLUSIONS: Short periods of out-of-hospital VF converted by ICD are associated 
with cognitive impairment in the recipients of primary prevention ICD.

DOI: 10.5603/KP.a2013.0215
PMID: 23990235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


111. J Neurosci Methods. 2014 Jan 15;221:202-14. doi: 10.1016/j.jneumeth.2013.08.013. 
Epub 2013 Aug 30.

Assessing EEG sleep spindle propagation. Part 1: theory and proposed 
methodology.

O'Reilly C(1), Nielsen T.

Author information:
(1)Dream and Nightmare Laboratory, Center for Advanced Research in Sleep 
Medicine, Hôpital du Sacré-Coeur de Montréal, 5400 boulevard Gouin Ouest 
Montréal, QC H4J 1C5, Canada. Electronic address: 
christian.oreilly@umontreal.ca.

BACKGROUND: A convergence of studies has revealed sleep spindles to be 
associated with sleep-related cognitive processing and even with fundamental 
waking state capacities such as intelligence. However, some spindle 
characteristics, such as propagation direction and delay, may play a decisive 
role but are only infrequently investigated because of technical complexities.
NEW METHOD: A new methodology for assessing sleep spindle propagation over the 
human scalp using noninvasive electroencephalography (EEG) is described. This 
approach is based on the alignment of time-frequency representations of spindle 
activity across recording channels.
RESULTS: This first of a two-part series concentrates on framing theoretical 
considerations related to EEG spindle propagation and on detailing the 
methodology. A short example application is provided that illustrates the 
repeatability of results obtained with the new propagation measure in a sample 
of 32 night recordings. A more comprehensive experimental investigation is 
presented in part two of the series.
COMPARISON WITH EXISTING METHOD(S): Compared to existing methods, this approach 
is particularly well adapted for studying the propagation of sleep spindles 
because it estimates time delays rather than phase synchrony and it computes 
propagation properties for every individual spindle with windows adjusted to the 
specific spindle duration.
CONCLUSIONS: The proposed methodology is effective in tracking the propagation 
of spindles across the scalp and may thus help in elucidating the temporal 
aspects of sleep spindle dynamics, as well as other transient EEG and MEG 
events. A software implementation (the Spyndle Python package) is provided as 
open source software.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jneumeth.2013.08.013
PMID: 23999176 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


112. Mol Psychiatry. 2014 Jul;19(7):784-90. doi: 10.1038/mp.2013.106. Epub 2013 Sep 
3.

Exome sequencing in multiplex autism families suggests a major role for 
heterozygous truncating mutations.

Toma C(1), Torrico B(1), Hervás A(2), Valdés-Mas R(3), Tristán-Noguero A(4), 
Padillo V(5), Maristany M(5), Salgado M(2), Arenas C(6), Puente XS(3), Bayés 
M(7), Cormand B(8).

Author information:
(1)1] Department of Genetics, University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain [2] 
Biomedical Network Research Centre on Rare Diseases (CIBERER), Barcelona, Spain.
(2)Child and Adolescent Mental Health Unit, Hospital Universitari Mútua de 
Terrassa, Barcelona, Spain.
(3)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, University of Oviedo-IUOPA, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(4)Department of Genetics, University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(5)Developmental Disorders Unit (UETD), Hospital Sant Joan de Déu, Esplugues de 
Llobregat, Barcelona, Spain.
(6)Department of Statistics, University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(7)National Centre for Genomic Analysis (CNAG), Barcelona, Spain.
(8)1] Department of Genetics, University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain [2] 
Biomedical Network Research Centre on Rare Diseases (CIBERER), Barcelona, Spain 
[3] Institute of Biomedicine, University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.

Autism is a severe neurodevelopmental disorder, the aetiology of which remains 
mainly unknown. Family and twin studies provide strong evidence that genetic 
factors have a major role in the aetiology of this disease. Recently, whole 
exome sequencing (WES) efforts have focused mainly on rare de novo variants in 
singleton families. Although these studies have provided pioneering insights, de 
novo variants probably explain only a small proportion of the autism risk 
variance. In this study, we performed exome sequencing of 10 autism multiplex 
families with the aim of investigating the role of rare variants that are 
coinherited in the affected sibs. The pool of variants selected in our study is 
enriched with genes involved in neuronal functions or previously reported in 
psychiatric disorders, as shown by Gene Ontology analysis and by browsing the 
Neurocarta database. Our data suggest that rare truncating heterozygous variants 
have a predominant role in the aetiology of autism. Using a multiple linear 
regression model, we found that the burden of truncating mutations correlates 
with a lower non-verbal intelligence quotient (NVIQ). Also, the number of 
truncating mutations that were transmitted to the affected sibs was 
significantly higher (twofold) than those not transmitted. Protein-protein 
interaction analysis performed with our list of mutated genes revealed that the 
postsynaptic YWHAZ is the most interconnected node of the network. Among the 
genes found disrupted in our study, there is evidence suggesting that YWHAZ and 
also the X-linked DRP2 may be considered as novel autism candidate genes.

DOI: 10.1038/mp.2013.106
PMID: 23999528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


113. Anxiety Stress Coping. 2014;27(2):156-75. doi: 10.1080/10615806.2013.832219. 
Epub 2013 Sep 5.

Life outcomes influenced by war-related experiences during the Gulf crisis.

Hadi F(1), Lai BS, Llabre MM.

Author information:
(1)a Department of Educational Psychology , Kuwait University , Kuwait.

This study examined the life outcomes of children exposed to the Gulf crisis in 
1990-1991. We expected war-trauma exposure and psychological distress symptoms 
to predict poorer educational and occupational outcomes. Participants were 151 
Kuwaiti citizens who were assessed during childhood (in 1993; M age = 10.6 
years), and who were reassessed 10 years later in young adulthood (in 2003; M 
age = 21.2 years). Participants completed measures of intelligence, war-trauma 
exposure, posttraumatic stress symptoms, anxiety symptoms, depressive symptoms, 
intervening life events, and life outcomes. Results indicated that war-trauma 
exposure negatively impacted children's educational and occupational outcomes as 
young adults. Boys with higher levels of war-trauma exposure were less likely to 
attend University. Posttraumatic stress and anxiety symptoms also predicted 
poorer educational and occupational outcomes. However, this relationship was not 
significant when we accounted for children's intelligence. Depressive symptoms 
were not predictive of children's educational or occupational outcomes. Results 
suggest that war-trauma exposure may have life-altering effects on children. 
Tailored, early interventions are needed for children exposed to war traumas.

DOI: 10.1080/10615806.2013.832219
PMCID: PMC3877742
PMID: 24003829 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114. Child Abuse Negl. 2014 Jan;38(1):65-75. doi: 10.1016/j.chiabu.2013.07.017. Epub 
2013 Sep 6.

Relationship between adverse early experiences, stressors, psychosocial 
resources and wellbeing.

Mc Elroy S(1), Hevey D(2).

Author information:
(1)Research Centre for Psychological Health, School of Psychology, Trinity 
College Dublin, Aras An Phairsaigh, College Green, Dublin 2, Ireland; Family and 
Psychosocial Services, Great Ormond Street Hospital, Great Ormond Street, 
London, WC1N 3JH, UK; St Patrick's University Hospital, James Street, Dublin 8, 
Ireland.
(2)Research Centre for Psychological Health, School of Psychology, Trinity 
College Dublin, Aras An Phairsaigh, College Green, Dublin 2, Ireland.

The study examined a diathesis stress model of the relationship between adverse 
child experiences (ACEs), stressors and psychosocial resources to explore their 
relationship with wellbeing. A cross sectional study was conducted across two 
mental health and addiction treatment centers. 176 individuals were interviewed 
using a demographics form, SCID-DSM-IV(First, Spitzer, Gibbon, &Williams, 2002), 
Child Trauma Questionnaire (Bernstein & Fink, 1998), NEO-Five Factor Inventory 
(Costa & McCrae, 1992), Trait Emotional Intelligence Questionnaire (Petrides, 
2009), The Coping, Inventory for Stressful Situations (CISS) (Endler & Parker, 
1990), Recent Life Events Questionnaire (Department of Health, 1985) and 
perceived social support from family, friends and religion. Multiple, 
regressions and correlations were used to analyze the data. All early 
experiences, except physical, abuse and death of a parent in childhood, were 
significantly correlated with increased number of, stressors and lower wellbeing 
scores. This is possibly because of sample specific issues. Number of stressors 
partially mediated the relationship between ACEs and wellbeing. Increased number 
of ACEs was related to higher neuroticism and emotion-focused coping and lower 
conscientiousness, agreeableness, trait emotional intelligence and task coping 
scores. These resources were significantly related to increased stressors and 
lower wellbeing. Distraction and emotion coping significantly moderated the 
relationship between number of stressors and wellbeing. These findings support 
the diathesis stress model and indicate that there are significant relationships 
between ACEs, psychosocial, resources, stressors and wellbeing. Recommendations 
to improve wellbeing are discussed.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chiabu.2013.07.017
PMID: 24011494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


115. Am J Geriatr Psychiatry. 2014 Dec;22(12):1391-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.jagp.2013.04.017. Epub 2013 Sep 5.

Comparison of anxiety as reported by older people with intellectual disabilities 
and by older people with normal intelligence.

Hermans H(1), Beekman AT(2), Evenhuis HM(3).

Author information:
(1)Intellectual Disability Medicine, Department of General Practice, Erasmus MC 
University Medical Center Rotterdam, The Netherlands; Amarant, Healthcare 
Organization for People With Intellectual Disabilities, Tilburg, The 
Netherlands. Electronic address: h.hermans.1@erasmusmc.nl.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, VU University Medical Center, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(3)Intellectual Disability Medicine, Department of General Practice, Erasmus MC 
University Medical Center Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVES: Older people with intellectual disabilities (ID) may experience more 
and different symptoms of anxiety than older people with normal intelligence.
STUDY QUESTIONS: (1) Is the reported severity of anxiety in this group similar 
to that in the general older population; (2) Are specific anxiety symptoms 
reported as frequently by both groups?
DESIGN: Cross-sectional.
SETTING: Formal Dutch intellectual disability services and Dutch 
population-based study.
PARTICIPANTS: One hundred fifty-four participants of the Healthy Ageing and 
Intellectual Disability study with mild or moderate ID (IQ <70), aged 55-85 
years, and 2,917 participants of the Longitudinal Aging Study Amsterdam with 
normal intelligence, aged 55-85 years.
MEASUREMENTS: The general anxiety subscale of the Hospital Anxiety and 
Depression Scale.
RESULTS: Mean (standard deviation) Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale total 
score of subjects with ID was significantly higher than that of subjects with 
normal intelligence (3.53 [3.03]) versus 2.53 [3.30]; p <0.01), whereas the 
percentage of scores above cutoff in both groups was similar. Four of 7 items 
were more often reported as present by subjects with ID: "tense or wound up 
feelings," "frightened feelings," "worrying thoughts," and "sudden feelings of 
panic."
CONCLUSIONS: Older people with ID report more symptoms of anxiety than older 
people with normal intelligence. Tense feelings and worrying especially need 
more attention, because more than one-half of all older people with ID reported 
such symptoms.

Copyright © 2014 American Association for Geriatric Psychiatry. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jagp.2013.04.017
PMID: 24012225 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. BMJ Qual Saf. 2014 Feb;23(2):106-15. doi: 10.1136/bmjqs-2013-001947. Epub 2013 
Sep 9.

Culture and behaviour in the English National Health Service: overview of 
lessons from a large multimethod study.

Dixon-Woods M(1), Baker R, Charles K, Dawson J, Jerzembek G, Martin G, McCarthy 
I, McKee L, Minion J, Ozieranski P, Willars J, Wilkie P, West M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, University of Leicester, , Leicester, UK.

Comment in
    doi: 10.1136/bmjqs-2013-002471.

BACKGROUND: Problems of quality and safety persist in health systems worldwide. 
We conducted a large research programme to examine culture and behaviour in the 
English National Health Service (NHS).
METHODS: Mixed-methods study involving collection and triangulation of data from 
multiple sources, including interviews, surveys, ethnographic case studies, 
board minutes and publicly available datasets. We narratively synthesised data 
across the studies to produce a holistic picture and in this paper present a 
high-level summary.
RESULTS: We found an almost universal desire to provide the best quality of 
care. We identified many 'bright spots' of excellent caring and practice and 
high-quality innovation across the NHS, but also considerable inconsistency. 
Consistent achievement of high-quality care was challenged by unclear goals, 
overlapping priorities that distracted attention, and compliance-oriented 
bureaucratised management. The institutional and regulatory environment was 
populated by multiple external bodies serving different but overlapping 
functions. Some organisations found it difficult to obtain valid insights into 
the quality of the care they provided. Poor organisational and information 
systems sometimes left staff struggling to deliver care effectively and 
disempowered them from initiating improvement. Good staff support and management 
were also highly variable, though they were fundamental to culture and were 
directly related to patient experience, safety and quality of care.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results highlight the importance of clear, challenging goals 
for high-quality care. Organisations need to put the patient at the centre of 
all they do, get smart intelligence, focus on improving organisational systems, 
and nurture caring cultures by ensuring that staff feel valued, respected, 
engaged and supported.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjqs-2013-001947
PMCID: PMC3913222
PMID: 24019507 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. Eur Arch Psychiatry Clin Neurosci. 2014 Aug;264(5):441-8. doi: 
10.1007/s00406-013-0441-0.

Fluid intelligence and empathy in association with personality disorder 
trait-scores: exploring the link.

Hengartner MP, Ajdacic-Gross V, Rodgers S, Müller M, Haker H, Rössler W.

There is some evidence that fluid intelligence as well as empathy may be 
significantly related to personality disorders (PDs). To our knowledge, no study 
has addressed those issues simultaneously in all 10 DSM PDs in a sample of the 
general population. We analysed data from 196 participants aged 20–41 from the 
Epidemiology Survey of the Zurich Programme for Sustainable Development of 
Mental Health Services (ZInEP), a comprehensive psychiatric survey in the 
general population of Zurich, Switzerland. We assessed the digit symbol-coding 
test (DSCT), the “reading the mind in the eyes” test (RMET) and the 
interpersonal reactivity index (IRI). Both measures of cognitive empathy (i.e. 
RMET and IRI perspective taking) were not related to any PD trait-score. The 
total PD trait-score was significantly associated with low scores on DSCT and 
IRI empathic concern and high scores on IRI personal distress, which indicates a 
dose–response relationship in those measures. DSCT was particularly related to 
borderline PD, IRI empathic concern to schizoid and narcissistic PDs, and IRI 
personal distress to avoidant PD. The proportion of variance explained in the 
total PD trait-score accounted for by DSCT, IRI empathic concern and IRI 
personal distress was 2.6, 2.3 and 13.3 %, respectively. Symptomatology and 
severity of PDs are related to low fluid intelligence and reduced emotional 
empathy as characterized by low empathic concern and high personal distress 
towards emotional expressions of others. Further research is needed that 
examines the association between cognitive empathy and personality pathology as 
well as potential clinical applications.

DOI: 10.1007/s00406-013-0441-0
PMID: 24022591 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118. Autism Res. 2014 Feb;7(1):28-39. doi: 10.1002/aur.1328. Epub 2013 Sep 10.

Do children with autism re-enact object movements rather than imitate 
demonstrator actions?

Custance DM(1), Mayer JL, Kumar E, Hill E, Heaton PF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Goldsmiths College, London, UK.

It has been suggested that autism-specific imitative deficits may be reduced or 
even spared in object-related activities. However, most previous research has 
not sufficiently distinguished object movement reenactment (learning about the 
ways in which object move) from imitation (learning about the topography of 
demonstrated actions). Twenty children with autism (CWA) and 20 typically 
developing children (TDC) were presented with puzzle boxes containing prizes. 
Test objects and experimental conditions were designed to isolate object- and 
action-related aspects of demonstrations. There were four types of video 
demonstrations: (a) a full demonstration by an adult; (b) a ghost demonstration 
with object movements alone; (c) mimed solutions demonstrated adjacent to the 
objects; and (d) random actions performed on the surface of the objects. There 
were no significant between-group differences in the degree to which CWA and TDC 
matched the full demonstrations, the actual demonstrations or in their times to 
first solution in any of the conditions. Although there was no clear imitative 
deficit in the CWA, regression analyses were conducted to explore in more detail 
whether diagnosis, verbal intelligence quotient (VIQ), nonverbal IQ NVIQ, age or 
motor coordination predicted performance. The results are discussed in relation 
to the use of extrinsic vs. intrinsic rewards and the interplay between motor 
coordination and the relative rigidity vs. pliability of objects.

© 2013 International Society for Autism Research, Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/aur.1328
PMID: 24022995 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. Child Neuropsychol. 2014;20(5):557-82. doi: 10.1080/09297049.2013.832740. Epub 
2013 Sep 13.

Neuropsychological and neurobehavioral outcome following childhood arterial 
ischemic stroke: attention deficits, emotional dysregulation, and executive 
dysfunction.

O'Keeffe F(1), Liégeois F, Eve M, Ganesan V, King J, Murphy T.

Author information:
(1)a Research Department of Clinical, Educational and Health Psychology , 
University College , London , London , UK.

OBJECTIVES: To investigate neuropsychological and neurobehavioral outcome in 
children with arterial ischemic stroke (AIS).
BACKGROUND: Childhood stroke can have consequences on motor, cognitive, and 
behavioral development. We present a cross-sectional study of neuropsychological 
and neurobehavioral outcome at least one year poststroke in a uniquely 
homogeneous sample of children who had experienced AIS.
METHOD: Forty-nine children with AIS aged 6 to 18 years were recruited from a 
specialist clinic. Neuropsychological measures of intelligence, reading 
comprehension, attention, and executive function were administered. A 
triangulation of data collection included questionnaires completed by the 
children, their parents, and teachers, rating behavior, executive functions, and 
emotions.
KEY FINDINGS: Focal neuropsychological vulnerabilities in attention (response 
inhibition and dual attention) and executive function were found, beyond general 
intellectual functioning, irrespective of hemispheric side of stroke. 
Difficulties with emotional and behavioral regulation were also found. 
Consistent with an "early plasticity" hypothesis, earlier age of stroke was 
associated with better performance on measures of executive function.
CONCLUSIONS: A significant proportion of children poststroke are at long-term 
risk of difficulties with emotional regulation, executive function, and 
attention. Data also suggest that executive functions are represented in 
widespread networks in the developing brain and are vulnerable to unilateral 
injury.

DOI: 10.1080/09297049.2013.832740
PMCID: PMC4104789
PMID: 24028185 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. J Pediatr Endocrinol Metab. 2014 Jan;27(1-2):93-9. doi: 10.1515/jpem-2013-0231.

X-linked recessive nephrogenic diabetes insipidus: a clinico-genetic study.

Hong CR, Kang HG, Choi HJ, Cho MH, Lee JW, Kang JH, Park HW, Koo JW, Ha TS, Kim 
SY, Il Cheong H.

A retrospective genotype and phenotype analysis of X-linked congenital 
nephrogenic diabetes insipidus (NDI) was conducted on a nationwide cohort of 25 
(24 male, 1 female) Korean children with AVPR2 gene mutations, comparing 
non-truncating and truncating mutations. In an analysis of male patients, the 
median age at diagnosis was 0.9 years old. At a median follow-up of 5.4 years, 
urinary tract dilatations were evident in 62% of patients and their median 
glomerular filtration rate was 72 mL/min/1.73 m2. Weights and heights were under 
the 3rd percentile in 22% and 33% of patients, respectively. One patient had low 
intelligence quotient and another developed end-stage renal disease. No 
statistically significant genotype-phenotype correlation was found between 
non-truncating and truncating mutations. One patient was female; she was 
analyzed separately because inactivation and mosaicism of the X chromosome may 
influence clinical manifestations in female patients. Current unsatisfactory 
long-term outcome of congenital NDI necessitates a novel therapeutic strategy.

DOI: 10.1515/jpem-2013-0231
PMID: 24030030 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


121. Brain Dev. 2014 Aug;36(7):620-5. doi: 10.1016/j.braindev.2013.08.006. Epub 2013 
Sep 12.

No association between catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) genotype and 
attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in Japanese children.

Yatsuga C(1), Toyohisa D(2), Fujisawa TX(1), Nishitani S(3), Shinohara K(3), 
Matsuura N(4), Ikeda S(5), Muramatsu M(5), Hamada A(6), Tomoda A(7).

Author information:
(1)Research Center for Child Mental Development, University of Fukui, Fukui, 
Japan.
(2)Department of Child Development, Faculty of Life Sciences, Kumamoto 
University, Kumamoto, Japan.
(3)Department of Neurobiology and Behavior, Graduate School of Biomedical 
Sciences, Nagasaki University, Nagasaki, Japan.
(4)School of Education, Tokyo University and Graduate School of Social Welfare, 
Tokyo, Japan.
(5)Tokyo Medical and Dental University, Medical Research Institute, Medical 
Genomics, Molecular Epidemiology, Tokyo, Japan.
(6)Division of Integrative Omics and Bioinformatics, National Cancer Center 
Research Institute, Tokyo, Japan.
(7)Research Center for Child Mental Development, University of Fukui, Fukui, 
Japan. Electronic address: atomoda@u-fukui.ac.jp.

OBJECTIVE: This study ascertained the association between attention 
deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in Japanese children and a polymorphism of 
catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT), a dopamine-control gene. The secondary aim 
of the study was the evaluation of a putative association between 
methylphenidate (MPH) effect/adverse effects and the COMT genotype.
METHODS: To ascertain the distribution of the Val158Met variant of COMT, 50 
children meeting ADHD inclusion criteria were compared with 32 healthy children. 
Clinical improvement and the occurrence of adverse effects were measured before 
and 3 months after MPH administration in children with ADHD, and analyzed for 
genotype association. Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children-Third Edition 
(WISC-III), age, MPH dose were included as co-variables.
RESULTS: The occurrence of the COMT Val/Val genotype was significantly higher in 
children with ADHD (χ(2)(1)=7.13, p<0.01). However, there was no significant 
difference in the Val/Val genotype according to disorder, and WISC and ADHD 
rating scale scores, after correcting for the interaction between disorder and 
COMT genotype. Furthermore, no significant difference in MPH effect/adverse 
effects was observed in association with the COMT genotype in the ADHD group.
CONCLUSIONS: These results showed a lack of association between the COMT Val/Val 
genotype and ADHD in Japan.

Copyright © 2013 The Japanese Society of Child Neurology. Published by Elsevier 
B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.braindev.2013.08.006
PMID: 24035255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. Ann Neurol. 2014 Jan;75(1):33-42. doi: 10.1002/ana.24015. Epub 2014 Jan 2.

Characterization of atypical language activation patterns in focal epilepsy.

Berl MM(1), Zimmaro LA, Khan OI, Dustin I, Ritzl E, Duke ES, Sepeta LN, Sato S, 
Theodore WH, Gaillard WD.

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Imaging and Tissue Sciences Section on Tissue Biophysics and 
Biomimetics, Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human 
Development, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD; Center for 
Neuroscience Research, Children's National Medical Center, George Washington 
University, Washington, DC.

OBJECTIVE: Functional magnetic resonance imaging is sensitive to the variation 
in language network patterns. Large populations are needed to rigorously assess 
atypical patterns, which, even in neurological populations, are a minority.
METHODS: We studied 220 patients with focal epilepsy and 118 healthy volunteers 
who performed an auditory description decision task. We compared a data-driven 
hierarchical clustering approach to the commonly used a priori laterality index 
(LI) threshold (LI < 0.20 as atypical) to classify language patterns within 
frontal and temporal regions of interest. We explored (n = 128) whether IQ 
varied with different language activation patterns.
RESULTS: The rate of atypical language among healthy volunteers (2.5%) and 
patients (24.5%) agreed with previous studies; however, we found 6 patterns of 
atypical language: a symmetrically bilateral, 2 unilaterally crossed, and 3 
right dominant patterns. There was high agreement between classification 
methods, yet the cluster analysis revealed novel correlations with clinical 
features. Beyond the established association of left-handedness, early seizure 
onset, and vascular pathology with atypical language, cluster analysis 
identified an association of handedness with frontal lateralization, early 
seizure onset with temporal lateralization, and left hemisphere focus with a 
unilateral right pattern. Intelligence quotient was not significantly different 
among patterns.
INTERPRETATION: Language dominance is a continuum; however, our results 
demonstrate meaningful thresholds in classifying laterality. Atypical language 
patterns are less frequent but more variable than typical language patterns, 
posing challenges for accurate presurgical planning. Language dominance should 
be assessed on a regional rather than hemispheric basis, and clinical 
characteristics should inform evaluation of atypical language dominance. 
Reorganization of language is not uniformly detrimental to language functioning.

© 2014 American Neurological Association.

DOI: 10.1002/ana.24015
PMCID: PMC4209919
PMID: 24038442 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. Hum Brain Mapp. 2014 Jun;35(6):2619-31. doi: 10.1002/hbm.22355. Epub 2013 Sep 3.

White matter microstructure correlates of mathematical giftedness and 
intelligence quotient.

Navas-Sánchez FJ(1), Alemán-Gómez Y, Sánchez-Gonzalez J, Guzmán-De-Villoria JA, 
Franco C, Robles O, Arango C, Desco M.

Author information:
(1)Unidad de Medicina y Cirugía Experimental, Hospital General Universitario 
Gregorio Marañón, Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria Gregorio Marañón, Madrid, 
Spain; Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Salud Mental (CIBERSAM), 
Madrid, Spain.

Recent functional neuroimaging studies have shown differences in brain 
activation between mathematically gifted adolescents and controls. The aim of 
this study was to investigate the relationship between mathematical giftedness, 
intelligent quotient (IQ), and the microstructure of white matter tracts in a 
sample composed of math-gifted adolescents and aged-matched controls. 
Math-gifted subjects were selected through a national program based on detecting 
enhanced visuospatial abilities and creative thinking. We used diffusion tensor 
imaging to assess white matter microstructure in neuroanatomical connectivity. 
The processing included voxel-wise and region of interest-based analyses of the 
fractional anisotropy (FA), a parameter which is purportedly related to white 
matter microstructure. In a whole-sample analysis, IQ showed a significant 
positive correlation with FA, mainly in the corpus callosum, supporting the idea 
that efficient information transfer between hemispheres is crucial for higher 
intellectual capabilities. In addition, math-gifted adolescents showed increased 
FA (adjusted for IQ) in white matter tracts connecting frontal lobes with basal 
ganglia and parietal regions. The enhanced anatomical connectivity observed in 
the forceps minor and splenium may underlie the greater fluid reasoning, 
visuospatial working memory, and creative capabilities of these children.

© 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/hbm.22355
PMCID: PMC6868969
PMID: 24038774 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. Hum Brain Mapp. 2014 Jun;35(6):2632-42. doi: 10.1002/hbm.22356. Epub 2013 Sep 
13.

Genes contributing to subcortical volumes and intellectual ability implicate the 
thalamus.

Bohlken MM(1), Brouwer RM, Mandl RC, van Haren NE, Brans RG, van Baal GC, de 
Geus EJ, Boomsma DI, Kahn RS, Hulshoff Pol HE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, UMC Utrecht, The Netherlands.

It has been shown that brain volume and general intellectual ability are to a 
significant extent influenced by the same genetic factors. Several cortical 
regions of the brain also show a genetic correlation with intellectual ability, 
demonstrating that intellectual functioning is probably represented in a 
heritable distributed network of cortical regions throughout the brain. This 
study is the first to investigate a genetic association between subcortical 
volumes and intellectual ability, taking into account the thalamus, caudate 
nucleus, putamen, globus pallidus, hippocampus, amygdala, and nucleus accumbens 
using an extended twin design. Genetic modeling was performed on a healthy adult 
twin sample consisting of 106 twin pairs and 30 of their siblings, IQ data was 
obtained from 132 subjects. Our results demonstrate that of all subcortical 
volumes measured, only thalamus volume is significantly correlated with 
intellectual functioning. Importantly, the association found between thalamus 
volume and intellectual ability is significantly influenced by a common genetic 
factor. This genetic factor is also implicated in cerebral brain volume. The 
thalamus, with its widespread cortical connections, may thus play a key role in 
human intelligence.

Copyright © 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/hbm.22356
PMCID: PMC6869799
PMID: 24038793 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. Pediatr Blood Cancer. 2014 Mar;61(3):464-72. doi: 10.1002/pbc.24746. Epub 2013 
Aug 29.

Cognitive function in children with brain tumors in the first year after 
diagnosis compared to healthy matched controls.

Shortman RI(1), Lowis SP, Penn A, McCarter RJ, Hunt LP, Brown CC, Stevens MC, 
Curran AL, Sharples PM.

Author information:
(1)Neuropsychology, Frenchay Hospital, Bristol, England.

BACKGROUND: Improved survival of children with brain tumors (BTs) has increased 
focus on ameliorating morbidity. To reduce the risk of progressive cognitive 
decline, remedial strategies need to be instituted early, based upon accurate 
appraisal of need, yet few studies have investigated cognition in BT children 
early post-diagnosis. The study aims were to investigate cognition in children 
with primary BTs 1, 6, and 12 months post-diagnosis compared with healthy 
children, exploring the impact of disease and treatment variables.
METHODS: Forty-eight children aged 2-16 years with primary BTs, referred to a 
Regional Neurosurgical Unit over the 2-year study period were eligible for 
enrollment. The "best friends" model was used to recruit matched controls. 
Cognition was assessed using age-appropriate Wechsler Intelligence scales; 
Children's Memory Scale; Test of Everyday Attention for Children, and Wechsler 
Quicktest.
RESULTS: Patients with BTs had significantly reduced performance compared to 
controls early post-diagnosis in tests of Performance IQ, processing speed, 
verbal and visual memory, and selective attention. Improved performance over 12 
months was seen in patients with BTs although also, for some measures, in 
controls. Significant deficits in cognitive performance were seen one year 
post-diagnosis for Verbal IQ; processing speed, visual and verbal immediate 
memory, and selective attention. Infratentorial site, high tumor grade, 
hydrocephalus, radiotherapy, and chemotherapy were associated with poorer 
functioning.
CONCLUSION: Early cognitive impairment is present in BT children, sometimes 
prior to radiotherapy/chemotherapy treatment, and is associated with 
hydrocephalus, high tumor grade and infratentorial site. Future studies should 
investigate the role of early rehabilitation in improving cognition.

© 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/pbc.24746
PMID: 24039108 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


126. Theor Popul Biol. 2014 Feb;91:44-9. doi: 10.1016/j.tpb.2013.09.005. Epub 2013 
Sep 14.

Coevolution of intelligence, behavioral repertoire, and lifespan.

Ghirlanda S(1), Enquist M(2), Lind J(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Brooklyn College, 2900 Bedford Ave., Brooklyn, NY 
11210, USA; Center for the Study of Cultural Evolution, Stockholm University, 
Lilla frescativ. 7B, S-106 91, Stockholm, Sweden. Electronic address: 
drghirlanda@gmail.com.
(2)Center for the Study of Cultural Evolution, Stockholm University, Lilla 
frescativ. 7B, S-106 91, Stockholm, Sweden; Department of Zoology, Stockholm 
University, Svante Arrheniusv. 14D, S-106 91, Stockholm, Sweden. Electronic 
address: magnus.enquist@intercult.su.se.
(3)Center for the Study of Cultural Evolution, Stockholm University, Lilla 
frescativ. 7B, S-106 91, Stockholm, Sweden; Department of Zoology, Stockholm 
University, Svante Arrheniusv. 14D, S-106 91, Stockholm, Sweden. Electronic 
address: johan.lind@zoologi.su.se.

Erratum in
    Theor Popul Biol. 2014 Nov;97:57.
    Theor Popul Biol. 2014 Sep;96:19.

Across many taxa, intriguing positive correlations exist between intelligence 
(measured by proxy as encephalization), behavioral repertoire size, and 
lifespan. Here we argue, through a simple theoretical model, that such 
correlations arise from selection pressures for efficient learning of behavior 
sequences. We define intelligence operationally as the ability to disregard 
unrewarding behavior sequences, without trying them out, in the search for 
rewarding sequences. We show that increasing a species' behavioral repertoire 
increases the number of rewarding behavior sequences that can be performed, but 
also the time required to learn such sequences. This trade-off results in an 
optimal repertoire size that decreases rapidly with increasing sequence length. 
Behavioral repertoire size can be increased by increasing intelligence or 
lengthening the lifespan, giving rise to the observed correlations between these 
traits.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tpb.2013.09.005
PMID: 24044983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2014 Feb;68(2):130-6. doi: 
10.1136/jech-2013-202637. Epub 2013 Sep 23.

Intelligence in early adulthood and mortality from natural and unnatural causes 
in middle-aged Danish men.

Meincke RH(1), Mortensen EL, Avlund K, Rosthøj S, Sørensen HJ, Osler M.

Author information:
(1)Section of Social Medicine, Department of Public Health, University of 
Copenhagen, , Copenhagen, Denmark.

BACKGROUND: High intelligence early in life has consistently been associated 
with decreased mortality, but the mechanisms are still not fully understood. In 
this cohort study, we examined the association between intelligence in early 
adulthood and later mortality from natural and unnatural causes taking birth 
weight, parental socioeconomic position, participants' own education and body 
mass index into account.
METHODS: 13 536 Danish men born in 1953 and 1959-1961 with data from birth 
certificates and intelligence test scores from conscription were followed until 
2009. Information on vital status was obtained from the Civil Registration 
System. Mortality risks were analysed by the multiple Cox proportional hazards 
model.
RESULTS: The risk of mortality from natural as well as unnatural causes was more 
than twice as high among men in the lowest scoring intelligence tertile 
(HRnatural deaths=2.24; 1.90-2.65 and HRunnatural deaths=2.67; 2.03-3.53). 
Adjusting for all covariates attenuated the estimates, but the association 
remained (HRnatural deaths=1.82; 1.48-2.25 and HRunnatural deaths=2.30; 
1.63-3.25).
CONCLUSIONS: In men, intelligence in early adulthood was inversely associated 
with midlife mortality from natural and unnatural causes. The associations 
remained after adjustments for a range of covariates.

DOI: 10.1136/jech-2013-202637
PMID: 24062410 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. Diabetologia. 2014 Jan;57(1):102-9. doi: 10.1007/s00125-013-3065-z. Epub 2013 
Sep 25.

Maternal diabetes in pregnancy and offspring cognitive ability: sibling study 
with 723,775 men from 579,857 families.

Fraser A(1), Almqvist C, Larsson H, Långström N, Lawlor DA.

Author information:
(1)MRC Integrative Epidemiology Unit at the University of Bristol, Oakfield 
House, Oakfield Grove, Bristol, BS8 2BN, UK, Abigail.Fraser@bristol.ac.uk.

AIMS/HYPOTHESIS: The aim of this study was to investigate the association 
between maternal diabetes in pregnancy and offspring cognitive ability and also 
to assess whether the association was due to intrauterine mechanisms or shared 
familial characteristics.
METHODS: We linked national registers and conducted a prospective cohort study 
of singleton Swedish-born men to explore associations between maternal pregnancy 
diabetes and educational achievement at age 16 years, the age of completing 
compulsory education in Sweden (n = 391,545 men from 337,174 families, 
graduating in 1988-1997 and n = 326,033 men from 282,079 families, graduating in 
1998-2009), and intelligence quotient (IQ) at the mandatory conscription 
examination at 18 years of age (n = 664,871 from 543,203 families).
RESULTS: Among non-siblings, maternal diabetes in pregnancy was associated with 
lower offspring cognitive ability even after adjustment for maternal age at 
birth, parity, education, early-pregnancy BMI, offspring birth year, gestational 
age and birthweight. For example, in non-siblings, the IQ of men whose mothers 
had diabetes in their pregnancy was on average 1.36 points lower (95% CI -2.12, 
-0.60) than men whose mothers did not have diabetes. In comparison, we found no 
such association within sibships (mean difference 1.70; 95% CI -1.80, 5.21).
CONCLUSIONS/INTERPRETATION: The association between maternal diabetes in 
pregnancy and offspring cognitive outcomes is likely explained by shared 
familial characteristics and not by an intrauterine mechanism.

DOI: 10.1007/s00125-013-3065-z
PMCID: PMC3857877
PMID: 24065154 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


129. Neuroimage. 2014 Jan 1;84:810-9. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2013.09.038. Epub 
2013 Sep 23.

Cognitive ability changes and dynamics of cortical thickness development in 
healthy children and adolescents.

Burgaleta M(1), Johnson W, Waber DP, Colom R, Karama S.

Author information:
(1)Universidad Autónoma de Madrid, Spain; Universitat Pompeu Fabra, Spain.

Intelligence quotient (IQ) scores tend to remain stable across the lifespan. 
Nevertheless, in some healthy individuals, significant decreases or increases in 
IQ have been observed over time. It is unclear whether such changes reflect true 
functional change or merely measurement error. Here, we applied surface-based 
corticometry to investigate vertex-wise cortical surface area and thickness 
correlates of changes in Full Scale IQ (FSIQ), Performance IQ (PIQ) and Verbal 
IQ (VIQ) in a representative sample of children and adolescents (n=188, mean 
age=11.59years) assessed two years apart as part of the NIH Study of Normal 
Brain Development. No significant associations between changes in IQ measures 
and changes in cortical surface area were observed, whereas changes in FSIQ, 
PIQ, and VIQ were related to rates of cortical thinning, mainly in left frontal 
areas. Participants who showed reliable gains in FSIQ showed no significant 
changes in cortical thickness on average, whereas those who exhibited no 
significant FSIQ change showed moderate declines in cortical thickness. 
Importantly, individuals who showed large decreases in FSIQ displayed the 
steepest and most significant reductions in cortical thickness. Results support 
the view that there can be meaningful cognitive ability changes that impact IQ 
within relatively short developmental periods and show that such changes are 
associated with the dynamics of cortical thickness development.

© 2013.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2013.09.038
PMCID: PMC3888797
PMID: 24071525 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest: Authors declare that they 
have no conflicting financial interests.


130. Ann Thorac Surg. 2014 Jan;97(1):48-55. doi: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2013.07.018. 
Epub 2013 Sep 25.

Effects on cognition of conventional and robotically assisted cardiac valve 
operation.

Bruce KM(1), Yelland GW(2), Almeida AA(3), Smith JA(4), Robinson SR(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Monash University, Melbourne, Australia.
(2)Blood-Brain Interactions Group, School of Psychology and Psychiatry, Monash 
University, Melbourne, Australia.
(3)Department of Surgery, Monash University, Melbourne, Australia; Department of 
Cardiothoracic Surgery, Monash University, Melbourne, Australia; Cardiothoracic 
Surgery Unit, Epworth Hospital, Melbourne, Australia.
(4)Department of Surgery, Monash University, Melbourne, Australia; Department of 
Cardiothoracic Surgery, Monash University, Melbourne, Australia.
(5)School of Health Sciences and Health Innovations Research Institute, RMIT 
University, Melbourne, Australia. Electronic address: 
stephen.robinson@rmit.edu.au.

BACKGROUND: The effect of valve surgical procedures on cognition was 
investigated in patients undergoing conventional or robotically assisted 
techniques. The confounding factors of surgical procedure, mood state, 
preexisting cognitive impairment, and repeated experience with cognitive tests 
were controlled for.
METHODS: Patients undergoing conventional valve procedures (n = 15), robotically 
assisted valve procedures (n = 15), and thoracic surgical procedures (n = 15), 
along with a nonsurgical control group (n = 15) were tested preoperatively, 1 
week after operation, and 8 weeks after operation by use of a battery of 
cognitive tests and a mood state assessment. Surgical group data were normalized 
against data from the nonsurgical control group before statistical analysis.
RESULTS: Patients undergoing conventional valve procedures performed worse than 
those undergoing robotically assisted valve procedures on every subtest before 
operation, and this disadvantage persisted after operation. Age and premorbid 
intelligence quotient were significantly associated with performance on several 
cognitive subtests. Anxiety, depression, and stress were not associated with 
impaired cognitive performance in the surgical groups after operation. A week 
after operation, patients undergoing conventional valve procedures performed 
worse on the cognitive tests that had a motor component, which may reflect 
discomfort caused by the sternotomy. Patients undergoing robotically assisted 
valve procedures were significantly less impaired on information processing 
tasks 1 week after operation when compared with those undergoing conventional 
valve procedures. The majority of patients who were impaired 1 week after 
operation recovered to preoperation levels within 8 weeks.
CONCLUSIONS: The robotically assisted valve surgical procedure results in more 
rapid recovery of performance on cognitive tests. However, regardless of the 
type of surgical intervention, the prospect of a recovery of cognitive 
performance to preoperative levels is high.

Copyright © 2014 The Society of Thoracic Surgeons. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2013.07.018
PMID: 24075495 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


131. Prog Neuropsychopharmacol Biol Psychiatry. 2014 Jan 3;48:149-54. doi: 
10.1016/j.pnpbp.2013.09.009. Epub 2013 Sep 25.

No sex differences in neuropsychological performance in first episode psychosis 
patients.

Ayesa-Arriola R(1), Rodriguez-Sanchez JM, Gomez-Ruiz E, Roiz-Santiáñez R, Reeves 
LL, Crespo-Facorro B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Marqués de Valdecilla University Hospital, IFIMAV, 
School of Medicine, University of Cantabria, Santander, Spain; CIBERSAM, Centro 
Investigación Biomédica en Red Salud Mental, Madrid, Spain. Electronic address: 
rayesa@humv.es.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to verify whether male patients with 
psychosis have greater neurocognitive impairment than female patients at illness 
onset.
METHOD: Participants with a first episode of psychosis (74 women/86 men) and 
healthy controls (62 women/97 men) were assessed with an extensive 
neuropsychological test battery.
RESULTS: Women in the clinical group were older at illness onset and had 
achieved higher formal education than men. This trend was the same for the 
control group. The patient group presented with lower premorbid IQ compared to 
healthy controls, and performed below for most neuropsychological tests. Women 
scored higher than men on a test of verbal memory, whereas men scored higher 
than women on a test of reaction time, visual memory, and a planning task. There 
were no group-by-sex interactions for any of the neuropsychological tests.
CONCLUSION: The present study shows that at the onset of psychosis there are no 
differences between males and females in neuropsychological performance. The 
differential pattern of cognitive performance observed is similar to that in 
healthy males and females. Furthermore, females with a late onset of psychosis 
may represent a subgroup with specific visuospatial and problem solving 
impairments.

© 2013.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pnpbp.2013.09.009
PMID: 24075821 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


132. Appl Neuropsychol Child. 2014;3(2):152-60. doi: 10.1080/21622965.2012.753570. 
Epub 2013 Sep 30.

WISC-IV unusual digit span performance in a sample of adolescents with learning 
disabilities.

Harrison AG(1), Armstrong I.

Author information:
(1)a Regional Assessment and Resource Centre , Queen's University , Kingston , 
Ontario , Canada.

Accurate identification of symptom magnification is essential when determining 
whether or not obtained test data are valid or interpretable. Apart from using 
freestanding symptom validity tests, many researchers encourage use of embedded 
measures of test-related motivation, including ones derived from the Digit Span 
subtest of the Wechsler scales. Such embedded measures are based on 
identification of performance patterns that are implausible if the test taker is 
investing full effort; however, it is unclear whether or not persons with 
preexisting cognitive difficulties such as specific learning disabilities (LD) 
might be falsely accused of poor test motivation due to actual but impaired 
working-memory skills. This study examined the specificity of such measures by 
reviewing performance of 86 adolescents with LDs on three measures embedded in 
the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children-Fourth Edition-namely, Digit Span 
(DS), Vocabulary-DS differences, and Reliable Digit Span (RDS) scores. Results 
indicate that while RDS is likely insensitive to impairments associated with LD, 
other DS measures may have an unacceptably high false-positive rate, especially 
if Canadian normative data are used to calculate scores.

DOI: 10.1080/21622965.2012.753570
PMID: 24079535 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


133. Psychol Assess. 2014 Mar;26(1):55-68. doi: 10.1037/a0034475. Epub 2013 Sep 30.

Factorial validity and measurement invariance across intelligence levels and 
gender of the overexcitabilities questionnaire-II (OEQ-II).

Van den Broeck W(1), Hofmans J(2), Cooremans S(1), Staels E(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical and Lifespan Psychology, Vrije Universiteit Brussel.
(2)Department of Experimental and Applied Psychology, Vrije Universiteit 
Brussel.

The concept of overexcitability, derived from Dabrowski's theory of personality 
development, offers a promising approach for the study of the developmental 
dynamics of giftedness. The present study aimed at (a) examining the factorial 
structure of the Overexcitabilities Questionnaire-II scores (OEQ-II) and (b) 
testing measurement invariance of these scores across intelligence and gender. A 
sample of 641 Dutch-speaking adolescents from 11 to 15 years old, 363 girls and 
278 boys, participated in this study. Results showed that a model without 
cross-loadings did not fit the data well (using confirmatory factor analysis), 
whereas a factor model in which all cross-loadings were included yielded fit 
statistics that were in support of the factorial structure of the OEQ-II scores 
(using exploratory structural equation modeling). Furthermore, our findings 
supported the assumption of (partial) strict measurement invariance of the 
OEQ-II scores across intelligence levels and across gender. Such levels of 
measurement invariance allow valid comparisons between factor means and factor 
relationships across groups. In particular, the gifted group scored 
significantly higher on intellectual and sensual overexcitability (OE) than the 
nongifted group, girls scored higher on emotional and sensual OE than boys, and 
boys scored higher on intellectual and psychomotor OE than girls.

2014 APA

DOI: 10.1037/a0034475
PMID: 24079958 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


134. Hear Res. 2014 Feb;308:84-97. doi: 10.1016/j.heares.2013.09.012. Epub 2013 Sep 
27.

Examining neural plasticity and cognitive benefit through the unique lens of 
musical training.

Moreno S(1), Bidelman GM(2).

Author information:
(1)Rotman Research Institute, Baycrest Centre for Geriatric Care, Toronto, ON, 
Canada; University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada. Electronic address: 
smoreno@research.baycrest.org.
(2)Institute for Intelligent Systems, University of Memphis, Memphis, TN, USA; 
School of Communication Sciences & Disorders, University of Memphis, Memphis, 
TN, USA.

Training programs aimed to alleviate or improve auditory-cognitive abilities 
have either experienced mixed success or remain to be fully validated. The 
limited benefits of such regimens are largely attributable to our weak 
understanding of (i) how (and which) interventions provide the most robust and 
long lasting improvements to cognitive and perceptual abilities and (ii) how the 
neural mechanisms which underlie such abilities are positively modified by 
certain activities and experience. Recent studies indicate that music training 
provides robust, long-lasting biological benefits to auditory function. 
Importantly, the behavioral advantages conferred by musical experience extend 
beyond simple enhancements to perceptual abilities and even impact non-auditory 
functions necessary for higher-order aspects of cognition (e.g., working memory, 
intelligence). Collectively, preliminary findings indicate that alternative 
forms of arts engagement (e.g., visual arts training) may not yield such 
widespread enhancements, suggesting that music expertise uniquely taps and 
refines a hierarchy of brain networks subserving a variety of auditory as well 
as domain-general cognitive mechanisms. We infer that transfer from specific 
music experience to broad cognitive benefit might be mediated by the degree to 
which a listener's musical training tunes lower- (e.g., perceptual) and 
higher-order executive functions, and the coordination between these processes. 
Ultimately, understanding the broad impact of music on the brain will not only 
provide a more holistic picture of auditory processing and plasticity, but may 
help inform and tailor remediation and training programs designed to improve 
perceptual and cognitive benefits in human listeners.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.heares.2013.09.012
PMID: 24079993 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135. Mem Cognit. 2014 Apr;42(3):464-80. doi: 10.3758/s13421-013-0364-z.

The role of individual differences in cognitive training and transfer.

Jaeggi SM(1), Buschkuehl M, Shah P, Jonides J.

Author information:
(1)School of Education, University of California, Irvine, Irvine, CA, 
92697-5500, USA, smjaeggi@uci.edu.

Working memory (WM) training has recently become a topic of intense interest and 
controversy. Although several recent studies have reported near- and 
far-transfer effects as a result of training WM-related skills, others have 
failed to show far transfer, suggesting that generalization effects are elusive. 
Also, many of the earlier intervention attempts have been criticized on 
methodological grounds. The present study resolves some of the methodological 
limitations of previous studies and also considers individual differences as 
potential explanations for the differing transfer effects across studies. We 
recruited intrinsically motivated participants and assessed their need for 
cognition (NFC; Cacioppo & Petty Journal of Personality and Social Psychology 
42:116-131, 1982) and their implicit theories of intelligence (Dweck, 1999) 
prior to training. We assessed the efficacy of two WM interventions by comparing 
participants' improvements on a battery of fluid intelligence tests against 
those of an active control group. We observed that transfer to a composite 
measure of fluid reasoning resulted from both WM interventions. In addition, we 
uncovered factors that contributed to training success, including motivation, 
need for cognition, preexisting ability, and implicit theories about 
intelligence.

DOI: 10.3758/s13421-013-0364-z
PMID: 24081919 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


136. Appl Neuropsychol Child. 2014;3(4):275-83. doi: 10.1080/21622965.2012.757700. 
Epub 2013 Oct 1.

Intellectual ability as a predictor of performance on the Wisconsin Card-Sorting 
Test.

Tanabe MK(1), Whitaker AM, O'Callaghan ET, Murray J, Houskamp BM.

Author information:
(1)a California School of Professional Psychology , Alliant International 
University-Los Angeles , Alhambra , California.

The purpose of this study was to explore the relationship between intelligence 
and executive functioning in youth. More specifically, the authors hypothesized 
that there would be a positive correlation between scores on the Wechsler 
Intelligence Scale for Children-Fourth Edition General Ability Index (GAI) and 
understanding of sorting principles as measured by percent conceptual-level 
responses on the Wisconsin Card-Sorting Test (WCST). One hundred eighty-five 
children and adolescents completed neuropsychological evaluations. Results 
revealed a curvilinear regression with bright youth (GAI = 115-129) and gifted 
youth (GAI ≥130) performing better than average youth (GAI = 90-114) and no 
difference in performance between bright and gifted youth. Additionally, 
post-hoc analyses revealed intelligence in children 5 to 8 years of age and 12 
to 16 years of age did not significantly predict percent conceptual-level 
responses, while intelligence predicted more than 19% of the variance in percent 
conceptual-level responses for children ages 9 to 11 years old. Findings 
revealed new evidence about the role of intellectual ability in executive 
functioning among different age ranges and have important implications for 
psychologists, caregivers, educators, and other professionals working with this 
population.

DOI: 10.1080/21622965.2012.757700
PMID: 24083565 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


137. J Altern Complement Med. 2014 Jan;20(1):19-23. doi: 10.1089/acm.2013.0207. Epub 
2013 Oct 2.

Therapeutic horse riding improves cognition, mood arousal, and ambulation in 
children with dyspraxia.

Hession CE(1), Eastwood B, Watterson D, Lehane CM, Oxley N, Murphy BA.

Author information:
(1)1 Limerick School of Art and Design, Limerick Institute of Technology , Co. 
Limerick, Ireland .

Comment in
    J Altern Complement Med. 2014 Jan;20(1):1-2.

OBJECTIVES: The objectives of this study were to evaluate the effects of the 
physical motion of a horse (riding therapy) combined with the audiovisual 
perception of this motion on a group of children with dyspraxia in terms of 
cognition, mood arousal, and gait variability.
DESIGN: The study design was a pretest/post-test.
SETTINGS/LOCATION: The study was conducted at the Fettercairn Youth Horse 
Project, Fettercairn, Tallaght, Dublin.
SUBJECTS: Forty (40) children ranging from 6 to 15 years of age with a primary 
diagnosis of dyspraxia were the study subjects.
INTERVENTIONS: Children meeting inclusion criteria participated in six 30-minute 
horse-riding sessions and two 30-minute audiovisual screening sessions.
OUTCOME MEASURES: A Standard Progressive Matrices test (also known as the Ravens 
test) was used to measure aspects of general intelligence. A Childhood 
Depression Inventory (CDI) questionnaire was used to assess cognitive, 
affective, and behavioral signs of depression. A GAITRite Pressure Mapping 
System analyzed foot function and gait variability by measuring single and 
double support, cycle time, cadence, toe in/out, and stride length.
RESULTS: Significant improvements were evident on the Ravens test and the CDI by 
the end of the study period. The amount of both single and double support 
required while completing the walking task also was significantly reduced. 
Improvements were visible on toe in/out values, cycle time, and cadence. Changes 
in stride length did not reach statistical significance.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings support the theory that riding therapy and/or the 
perception of beat-based rhythms, as experienced by the rider on the horse, 
stimulates cognition, mood, and gait parameters. In addition, the data also 
pointed to the potential value of an audiovisual approach to equine therapy.

DOI: 10.1089/acm.2013.0207
PMID: 24088010 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


138. Pediatr Hematol Oncol. 2014 Mar;31(2):181-93. doi: 10.3109/08880018.2013.803212. 
Epub 2013 Oct 2.

Assessment of neuropsychological late effects in survivors of childhood 
leukemia.

Kalafatçılar Aİ(1), Tüfekçi Ö, Ören H, Hız S, Güleryüz H, Akay A, Orçim E, Olgun 
Y, İrken G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Dokuz Eylül University Faculty of Medicine, İzmir, 
Turkey.

The neurologic dysfunctions caused by treatment may affect health and quality of 
life in survivors of childhood leukemia. The objective of this study was to 
identify the neuropsychological late effects of leukemia treatment to provide an 
assessment about the degree and incidence of these late effects. Neurological 
and ophtalmological examination, cranial magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), 
auditory and neurocognitive tests, and questionnaires of quality of life were 
performed to 44 acute leukemia survivors at least 5 years after diagnosis. 
Median time since completion of chemotherapy was 7.5 years (2-18) and median age 
at the time of the study was 16.4 years (8-31). At least one or more late 
effects detected by physical examination (PE), neurological tests, or 
neurocognitive tests encountered in 80% of the patients, and 64% of the patients 
specified at least one complaint in the quality of life questionnaire. MRI 
revealed pathological findings in 18% and electroencephalogram (EEG) 
abnormalities were present in 9% of the patients. Evaluation of total 
intelligence scores revealed that 30% of patients' IQ scores were <80 and 70% of 
the patients' scores demonstrated neurocognitive dysfunctions. The patients 
>6 years at the time of diagnosis were found to have more psychological problems 
and higher rates of smoking and alcohol consumption. The most frequent complaint 
was headache and the most common problem in school was denoted as difficulty in 
concentration. Our study demonstrated that most of the survivors of childhood 
leukemia are at risk of developing neuropsycological late effects.

DOI: 10.3109/08880018.2013.803212
PMID: 24088177 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. Psychiatr Prax. 2014 Mar;41(2):95-100. doi: 10.1055/s-0033-1349595. Epub 2013 
Oct 2.

[Multiple-choice vocabulary intelligence test MWT in schizophrenia: valid 
measure of premorbid intelligence?].

[Article in German]

Wittorf A(1), Wiedemann G(2), Klingberg S(1).

Author information:
(1)Universitätsklinik für Psychiatrie und Psychotherapie, Tübingen.
(2)Klinik für Psychiatrie und Psychotherapie, Klinikum Fulda.

OBJECTIVE: The multiple-choice vocabulary intelligence test MWT 
(Mehrfachwahl-Wortschatz-Intelligenztest) as a measure of premorbid IQ is widely 
used in clinical practice and research in Germany. The study examined whether 
the MWT is actually insensitive to brain dysfunction and psychopathology in 
patients with schizophrenia.
METHOD: 81 post-acute patients with schizophrenia and 27 matched healthy 
controls completed the MWT at two points in time. At baseline, we further 
applied a neuropsychological test battery and a psychopathology rating.
RESULTS: The multiple linear regression analysis showed that the MWT-IQ of 
patients is significantly confounded by neuropsychological dysfunctions and 
psychopathology. The repeated measurement ANOVA pointed to a significant 
recovery effect of the MWT-IQ during clinical remission in the patient group.
CONCLUSION: The results question the validity of the MWT as a measure of 
premorbid IQ in schizophrenia.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0033-1349595
PMID: 24089322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140. Autism. 2014 Aug;18(6):672-83. doi: 10.1177/1362361313493681. Epub 2013 Oct 2.

Group cognitive behavioural therapy and group recreational activity for adults 
with autism spectrum disorders: a preliminary randomized controlled trial.

Hesselmark E(1), Plenty S(2), Bejerot S(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden 
ehesselmark@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, 
Sweden.
(3)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden 
Northern Stockholm Psychiatry, VUB/KogNUS, St Göran Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden.

Although adults with autism spectrum disorder are an increasingly identified 
patient population, few treatment options are available. This preliminary 
randomized controlled open trial with a parallel design developed two group 
interventions for adults with autism spectrum disorders and intelligence within 
the normal range: cognitive behavioural therapy and recreational activity. Both 
interventions comprised 36 weekly 3-h sessions led by two therapists in groups 
of 6-8 patients. A total of 68 psychiatric patients with autism spectrum 
disorders participated in the study. Outcome measures were Quality of Life 
Inventory, Sense of Coherence Scale, Rosenberg Self-Esteem Scale and an 
exploratory analysis on measures of psychiatric health. Participants in both 
treatment conditions reported an increased quality of life at post-treatment (d 
= 0.39, p < 0.001), with no difference between interventions. No amelioration of 
psychiatric symptoms was observed. The dropout rate was lower with cognitive 
behavioural therapy than with recreational activity, and participants in 
cognitive behavioural therapy rated themselves as more generally improved, as 
well as more improved regarding expression of needs and understanding of 
difficulties. Both interventions appear to be promising treatment options for 
adults with autism spectrum disorder. The interventions' similar efficacy may be 
due to the common elements, structure and group setting. Cognitive behavioural 
therapy may be additionally beneficial in terms of increasing specific skills 
and minimizing dropout.

© The Author(s) 2013.

DOI: 10.1177/1362361313493681
PMCID: PMC4230566
PMID: 24089423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


141. Gene. 2014 Jan 15;534(1):100-6. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2013.09.093. Epub 2013 Oct 
2.

Siblings with opposite chromosome constitutions, dup(2q)/del(7q) and 
del(2q)/dup(7q).

Shim SH(1), Shim JS, Min K, Lee HS, Park JE, Park SH, Hwang E, Kim M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Science, College of Life Science, CHA University, 
Republic of Korea; Genetics Laboratory, Fertility Center of CHA Gangnam Medical 
Center, CHA University, Republic of Korea.

Chromosome 7q36 microdeletion syndrome is a rare genomic disorder characterized 
by underdevelopment of the brain, microcephaly, anomalies of the sex organs, and 
language problems. Developmental delay, intellectual disability, autistic 
spectrum disorders, BDMR syndrome, and unusual facial morphology are the key 
features of the chromosome 2q37 microdeletion syndrome. A genetic screening for 
two brothers with global developmental delay using high-resolution chromosomal 
analysis and subtelomeric multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification 
revealed subtelomeric rearrangements on the same sites of 2q37.2 and 7q35, with 
reversed deletion and duplication. Both of them showed dysmorphic facial 
features, severe disability of physical and intellectual development, and 
abnormal genitalia with differential abnormalities in their phenotypes. The 
family did not have abnormal genetic phenotypes. According to the genetic 
analysis of their parents, adjacent-1 segregation from their mother's was 
suggested as a mechanism of their gene mutation. By comparing the phenotypes of 
our patients with previous reports on similar patients, we tried to obtain the 
information of related genes and their chromosomal locations.

© 2013.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2013.09.093
PMID: 24095776 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. Neurobiol Learn Mem. 2014 Feb;108:185-95. doi: 10.1016/j.nlm.2013.09.014. Epub 
2013 Oct 2.

Associations and propositions: the case for a dual-process account of learning 
in humans.

McLaren IP(1), Forrest CL(1), McLaren RP(1), Jones FW(2), Aitken MR(1), 
Mackintosh NJ(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Psychology, University of Exeter, Perry Road, Exeter, EX4 4QG, UK.
(2)School of Psychology, University of Exeter, Perry Road, Exeter, EX4 4QG, UK; 
Department of Psychology, Politics and Sociology, Canterbury Christ Church 
University, UK.
(3)Department of Psychology, University of Cambridge, Downing St., Cambridge CB2 
3EB, UK. Electronic address: njsmm10@gmail.com.

We review evidence that supports the conclusion that people can and do learn in 
two distinct ways - one associative, the other propositional. No one disputes 
that we solve problems by testing hypotheses and inducing underlying rules, so 
the issue amounts to deciding whether there is evidence that we (and other 
animals) also rely on a simpler, associative system, that detects the frequency 
of occurrence of different events in our environment and the contingencies 
between them. There is neuroscientific evidence that associative learning occurs 
in at least some animals (e.g., Aplysia californica), so it must be the case 
that associative learning has evolved. Since both associative and propositional 
theories can in principle account for many instances of successful learning, the 
problem is then to show that there are at least some cases where the two classes 
of theory predict different outcomes. We offer a demonstration of cue 
competition effects in humans under incidental conditions as evidence against 
the argument that all such effects are based on cognitive inference. The latter 
supposition would imply that if the necessary information is unavailable to 
inference then no cue competition should occur. We then discuss the case of 
unblocking by reinforcer omission, where associative theory predicts an 
irrational solution to the problem, and consider the phenomenon of the Perruchet 
effect, in which conscious expectancy and conditioned response dissociate. 
Further discussion makes use of evidence that people will sometimes provide one 
solution to a problem when it is presented to them in summary form, and another 
when they are presented in rapid succession with trial-by trial information. We 
also demonstrate that people trained on a discrimination may show a peak shift 
(predicted by associative theory), but given the time and opportunity to detect 
the relationships between S+ and S-, show rule-based behavior instead. Finally, 
we conclude by presenting evidence that research on individual differences 
suggests that variation in intelligence and explicit problem solving ability are 
quite unrelated to variation in implicit (associative) learning, and briefly 
consider the computational implications of our argument, by asking how both 
associative and propositional processes can be accommodated within a single 
framework for cognition.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nlm.2013.09.014
PMID: 24096204 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 2014 Mar;231(6):1201-16. doi: 
10.1007/s00213-013-3290-7. Epub 2013 Oct 6.

Biomarkers in autism spectrum disorder: the old and the new.

Ruggeri B(1), Sarkans U, Schumann G, Persico AM.

Author information:
(1)MRC Social, Genetic and Developmental Psychiatry Centre, Institute of 
Psychiatry, King's College London, De Crespigny Park, London, SE5 8AF, UK.

RATIONALE: Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a complex heterogeneous 
neurodevelopmental disorder with onset during early childhood and typically a 
life-long course. The majority of ASD cases stems from complex, 'multiple-hit', 
oligogenic/polygenic underpinnings involving several loci and possibly 
gene-environment interactions. These multiple layers of complexity spur interest 
into the identification of biomarkers able to define biologically homogeneous 
subgroups, predict autism risk prior to the onset of behavioural abnormalities, 
aid early diagnoses, predict the developmental trajectory of ASD children, 
predict response to treatment and identify children at risk for severe adverse 
reactions to psychoactive drugs.
OBJECTIVES: The present paper reviews (a) similarities and differences between 
the concepts of 'biomarker' and 'endophenotype', (b) established biomarkers and 
endophenotypes in autism research (biochemical, morphological, hormonal, 
immunological, neurophysiological and neuroanatomical, neuropsychological, 
behavioural), (c) -omics approaches towards the discovery of novel biomarker 
panels for ASD, (d) bioresource infrastructures and (e) data management for 
biomarker research in autism.
RESULTS: Known biomarkers, such as abnormal blood levels of serotonin, oxytocin, 
melatonin, immune cytokines and lymphocyte subtypes, multiple 
neuropsychological, electrophysiological and brain imaging parameters, will 
eventually merge with novel biomarkers identified using unbiased genomic, 
epigenomic, transcriptomic, proteomic and metabolomic methods, to generate 
multimarker panels. Bioresource infrastructures, data management and data 
analysis using artificial intelligence networks will be instrumental in 
supporting efforts to identify these biomarker panels.
CONCLUSIONS: Biomarker research has great heuristic potential in targeting 
autism diagnosis and treatment.

DOI: 10.1007/s00213-013-3290-7
PMID: 24096533 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


144. Bone Marrow Transplant. 2014 Mar;49(3):332-7. doi: 10.1038/bmt.2013.146. Epub 
2013 Oct 7.

Application of machine learning algorithms for clinical predictive modeling: a 
data-mining approach in SCT.

Shouval R(1), Bondi O(2), Mishan H(2), Shimoni A(3), Unger R(2), Nagler A(3).

Author information:
(1)1] The Division of Hematology and Bone Marrow Transplantation and Internal 
Medicine "F" Department, The Chaim Sheba Medical Center, Tel HaShomer, Israel 
[2] 2013 Pinchas Borenstein Talpiot Medical Leadership Program, The Chaim Sheba 
Medical Center, Tel HaShomer, Israel.
(2)The Mina and Everard Goodman Faculty of Life Sciences, Bar-Ilan University, 
Ramat-Gan, Israel.
(3)The Division of Hematology and Bone Marrow Transplantation and Internal 
Medicine "F" Department, The Chaim Sheba Medical Center, Tel HaShomer, Israel.

Data collected from hematopoietic SCT (HSCT) centers are becoming more abundant 
and complex owing to the formation of organized registries and incorporation of 
biological data. Typically, conventional statistical methods are used for the 
development of outcome prediction models and risk scores. However, these 
analyses carry inherent properties limiting their ability to cope with large 
data sets with multiple variables and samples. Machine learning (ML), a field 
stemming from artificial intelligence, is part of a wider approach for data 
analysis termed data mining (DM). It enables prediction in complex data 
scenarios, familiar to practitioners and researchers. Technological and 
commercial applications are all around us, gradually entering clinical research. 
In the following review, we would like to expose hematologists and stem cell 
transplanters to the concepts, clinical applications, strengths and limitations 
of such methods and discuss current research in HSCT. The aim of this review is 
to encourage utilization of the ML and DM techniques in the field of HSCT, 
including prediction of transplantation outcome and donor selection.

DOI: 10.1038/bmt.2013.146
PMID: 24096823 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


145. Dev Neurorehabil. 2014 Aug;17(4):219-23. doi: 10.3109/17518423.2012.749952. Epub 
2013 Oct 8.

Voices from the past: comparing the rapid prompting method and facilitated 
communication.

Tostanoski A(1), Lang R, Raulston T, Carnett A, Davis T.

Author information:
(1)Clinic for Autism Research Evaluation and Support, Texas State University-San 
Marcos , San Marcos, TX , USA.

OBJECTIVE: This article briefly reviews the history and damage caused by 
facilitated communication (FC) and highlights the parallels between FC and the 
Rapid Prompting Method (RPM).
BACKGROUND: FC involves a therapist (or facilitator) supporting the hand of a 
person with autism while a message is typed on a letter board. FC is widely 
acknowledged to be a pseudoscientific, unsafe, and unethical treatment for 
people with autism. RPM is a more recent intervention for people with autism 
that involves the facilitator holding and moving the letter board while the 
individual with autism moves their own hand. Those who espouse the perceived 
benefits of FC and RPM make strikingly similar claims of hidden intelligence and 
extraordinary communication abilities in people with autism following treatment.
CONCLUSION: Clients, proponents, and practitioners of RPM should demand 
scientific validation of RPM in order to ensure the safety of people with 
disabilities that are involved with RPM.

DOI: 10.3109/17518423.2012.749952
PMID: 24102487 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. Paediatr Anaesth. 2014 Mar;24(3):257-65. doi: 10.1111/pan.12257. Epub 2013 Sep 
19.

Neurotoxicity of sedative and analgesia drugs in young infants with congenital 
heart disease: 4-year follow-up.

Garcia Guerra G(1), Robertson CM, Alton GY, Joffe AR, Cave DA, Yasmin F, Dinu 
IA, Creighton DE, Ross DB, Rebeyka IM; Western Canadian Complex Pediatric 
Therapies Follow-up Group.

Collaborators: Moddemann D, Blakley P, Sauve R, Bodani J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB, Canada.

OBJECTIVES/AIM: To determine whether sedation/analgesia drugs used before, 
during, and after infant cardiac surgery are associated with neurocognitive and 
functional outcomes.
BACKGROUND: Some animal models suggest neurotoxic effects of anesthetic drugs on 
the developing brain; however, potential human effects are unknown. Whether 
these results can be extrapolated to humans is unknown.
METHODS/MATERIALS: Prospective follow-up project of all infants ≤6 weeks old 
having surgery for congenital heart disease between 04/03 and 12/06. 
Demographic, perioperative, and sedation/analgesia variables were collected. 
Outcomes at kindergarten age were Wechsler Preschool and Primary Scale of 
Intelligence-III, Beery-Buktenica Developmental Test of Visual Motor Integration 
(VMI-V), and General Adaptive Composite (GAC) of the Adaptive Behavior 
Assessment System-II. Multivariable linear regression was used to identify 
predictor variables.
RESULTS: From 135 infants who underwent heart surgery, 19 died, 17 were 
excluded, 8 were lost to follow-up, leaving 91 children for analysis. Multiple 
linear regression found days on chloral hydrate [3.5 (3.7) days] was associated 
with lower performance intelligence quotient (PIQ) (Effect size -1.03; 95% CI 
-1.96, -0.10; P = 0.03), and cumulative dose [54.2 (60.3) mg·kg(-1) ] of 
benzodiazepines was associated with lower VMI scores (Effect size -0.07; 95% CI 
-0.12, -0.01; P = 0.026). No other associations were found between 
sedation/analgesia variables and full-scale IQ, PIQ, Verbal IQ, VMI, or GAC.
CONCLUSION: Assessment of this cohort at kindergarten age found a small 
statistically significant association between days on chloral hydrate and PIQ, 
and benzodiazepine cumulative dose and lower VMI. No other association between 
sedation/analgesia drugs and outcomes was found.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/pan.12257
PMID: 24103018 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


147. Eur J Paediatr Neurol. 2014 Jan;18(1):60-5. doi: 10.1016/j.ejpn.2013.08.005. 
Epub 2013 Sep 25.

Neuropsychological performance in children with temporal lobe epilepsy having 
normal MRI findings.

Mankinen K(1), Harila MJ(2), Rytky SI(3), Pokka TM(4), Rantala HM(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Oulu University Hospital, PB 29, 90014 Oulu, 
Finland. Electronic address: katariina.mankinen@oulu.fi.
(2)Department of Neurology, Oulu University Hospital, Oulu, Finland.
(3)Department of Clinical Neurophysiology, Oulu University Hospital, Oulu, 
Finland.
(4)Department of Pediatrics, Oulu University Hospital, PB 29, 90014 Oulu, 
Finland.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Most information on the neuropsychological performance of 
pediatric patients with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) is derived from selected 
surgical series. Non-lesional pediatric TLE patients were studied here at the 
population level in order to investigate the extent to which neuropsychological 
deficits predisposing to learning difficulties exist in this more common group.
METHODS: Language, memory and executive functions were measured in children aged 
8-15 years with non-lesional TLE and of normal intelligence (n = 21), and their 
performance was compared with that of healthy age and gender-matched children (n 
= 21). The effects of clinical epilepsy variables on performance were examined.
RESULTS: Although neuropsychological performance did not differ between the TLE 
patients and the healthy controls, female gender, early onset, longer duration 
and abnormal interictal EEG had a negative effect on neuropsychological 
performance.
CONCLUSIONS: Children with early-onset epilepsy should be assessed carefully for 
neuropsychological impairment using sufficiently broad batteries of tests in 
order to detect even slight deficits. Our sample size was small and these 
findings should be interpreted as preliminary results and need to be confirmed 
in larger studies.

Copyright © 2013. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejpn.2013.08.005
PMID: 24103143 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


148. Autism Res. 2014 Feb;7(1):40-9. doi: 10.1002/aur.1333. Epub 2013 Sep 17.

Age and sensory processing abnormalities predict declines in encoding and recall 
of temporally manipulated speech in high-functioning adults with ASD.

Mayer JL(1), Heaton PF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Roehampton, London, UK.

While temporal and perceptual processing abnormalities, identified in a number 
of electrophysiological and brain imaging studies of individuals with (ASD), are 
likely to impact on speech perception, surprisingly little is known about the 
behavioral outcomes of such abnormalities. It has been hypothesized that rapid 
temporal processing deficits may be linked to impaired language development 
through interference with acoustic information during speech perception. The 
present study aimed to investigate the impact of temporal changes on encoding 
and recall of speech, and the associated cognitive, clinical, and behavioral 
correlates in adults with ASD. Research carried out with typically developing 
(TD) adults has shown that word recall diminishes as the speed of speech 
increases, and it was predicted that the magnitude of this effect would be far 
greater in those with ASD because of a preexisting rapid temporal processing 
deficit. Nineteen high-functioning adults with ASD, and age- and 
intelligence-matched TD controls performed verbatim recall of temporally 
manipulated sentences. Reduced levels of word recall in response to increases in 
presentation speed were observed, and this effect was greater in the older 
participants in the ASD group than in the control group. This is the first study 
to show that both sensory abnormalities and aging impact on speech encoding in 
ASD. Auditory processing deficits in ASD may be indicative of an association 
with the sensory abnormalities and social and communication impairments 
characterizing the disorder.

© 2013 International Society for Autism Research, Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/aur.1333
PMID: 24106132 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149. Subst Use Misuse. 2014 Mar;49(4):395-404. doi: 10.3109/10826084.2013.841248. 
Epub 2013 Oct 9.

Are sexes affected differently by ketamine? An exploratory study in ketamine 
users.

Liang HJ(1), Lau CG, Tang KL, Chan F, Ungvari GS, Tang WK.

Author information:
(1)1Department of Psychiatry, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, 
China.

One hundred primary ketamine users and 100 controls were recruited in Hong Kong 
between December 2009 and December 2011. Cognitive assessment included general 
intelligence, working, verbal, and visual memory, and executive functions. A 
Univariate General Linear Model was used to compare cognitive performance 
between the male and female ketamine users and controls. The female users 
appeared to have a higher risk of visual memory impairment than their male 
counterparts. Further studies are warranted to clarify the mechanism of the 
sex-specific effect of ketamine on cognitive functions.

DOI: 10.3109/10826084.2013.841248
PMID: 24106975 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


150. Exp Brain Res. 2014 Jan;232(1):113-9. doi: 10.1007/s00221-013-3724-9. Epub 2013 
Oct 11.

Increased response conflict in recreational cocaine polydrug users.

Sellaro R(1), Hommel B, Colzato LS.

Author information:
(1)Leiden Institute for Brain and Cognition, Leiden University, Leiden, The 
Netherlands, r.sellaro@fsw.leidenuniv.nl.

Recent studies suggest that recreational use of cocaine is associated with 
significant impairments in the same cognitive control functions that are 
affected by chronic use. Here we tested whether recreational cocaine use can 
impact the emergence and resolution of response conflict in conflict-inducing 
tasks. Recreational cocaine polydrug users (n = 17) and cocaine-free controls (n 
= 17), matched for sex, age, intelligence, and alcohol consumption, performed a 
Simon task-which is known to induce response conflict. Recreational users showed 
a larger Simon effect, indicating that they had more difficulty resolving 
stimulus-induced response conflict. This finding is consistent with the recent 
literature showing that even small doses of cocaine are sufficient to compromise 
key cognitive control functions.

DOI: 10.1007/s00221-013-3724-9
PMID: 24114510 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


151. Biomed Tech (Berl). 2014 Feb;59(1):7-18. doi: 10.1515/bmt-2013-0074.

Artificial intelligence techniques used in respiratory sound analysis--a 
systematic review.

Palaniappan R, Sundaraj K, Sundaraj S.

Artificial intelligence (AI) has recently been established as an alternative 
method to many conventional methods. The implementation of AI techniques for 
respiratory sound analysis can assist medical professionals in the diagnosis of 
lung pathologies. This article highlights the importance of AI techniques in the 
implementation of computer-based respiratory sound analysis. Articles on 
computer-based respiratory sound analysis using AI techniques were identified by 
searches conducted on various electronic resources, such as the IEEE, Springer, 
Elsevier, PubMed, and ACM digital library databases. Brief descriptions of the 
types of respiratory sounds and their respective characteristics are provided. 
We then analyzed each of the previous studies to determine the specific 
respiratory sounds/pathology analyzed, the number of subjects, the signal 
processing method used, the AI techniques used, and the performance of the AI 
technique used in the analysis of respiratory sounds. A detailed description of 
each of these studies is provided. In conclusion, this article provides 
recommendations for further advancements in respiratory sound analysis.

DOI: 10.1515/bmt-2013-0074
PMID: 24114889 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


152. Dev Med Child Neurol. 2014 Feb;56(2):148-56. doi: 10.1111/dmcn.12282. Epub 2013 
Oct 1.

A cohort study on full breastfeeding and child neuropsychological development: 
the role of maternal social, psychological, and nutritional factors.

Julvez J(1), Guxens M, Carsin AE, Forns J, Mendez M, Turner MC, Sunyer J.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Research in Environmental Epidemiology (CREAL), Barcelona, Spain; 
Hospital del Mar Research Institute (IMIM), Barcelona, Spain; CIBER 
Epidemiologia y Salud Pública (CIBERESP), Barcelona, Spain.

Comment in
    Dev Med Child Neurol. 2014 Feb;56(2):101-2.

AIM: This study investigated whether duration of full breastfeeding is 
associated with child neuropsychological development and whether this 
association is explained by social, psychological, and nutritional factors 
within families.
METHOD: Participants in this study were a population-based birth cohort in the 
city of Sabadell (Catalonia, Spain). Females were recruited during the first 
trimester of pregnancy between July 2004 and July 2006. Information about 
parental characteristics and breastfeeding was obtained through questionnaires. 
Full breastfeeding was categorized as never, short term (≤4mo), long term 
(4-6mo), or very long term (>6mo). A trained psychologist assessed the 
neuropsychological development of children at 4 years of age (n=434) using the 
McCarthy Scales of Children's Abilities (MSCA).
RESULTS: Full breastfeeding showed an independent association with child general 
MSCA scores after adjusting for a range of social, psychological, and 
nutritional factors (>6mo, coefficient=7.4 [95% confidence interval=2.8-12.0], 
p=0.011). Maternal social class, education level, and IQ were also associated 
with child neuropsychological scores, but did not explain breastfeeding 
associations. Omega-3 (n3) fatty acid levels were not associated with child 
neuropsychological scores.
INTERPRETATION: Very long-term full breastfeeding was independently associated 
with neuropsychological functions of children at 4 years of age. Maternal 
indicators of intelligence, psychopathology, and colostrum n3 fatty acids did 
not explain this association.

© 2013 Mac Keith Press.

DOI: 10.1111/dmcn.12282
PMID: 24116864 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


153. Acta Paediatr. 2014 Jan;103(1):70-80. doi: 10.1111/apa.12449. Epub 2013 Nov 9.

Early lexical development and risk of verbal and nonverbal cognitive delay at 
school age.

Ghassabian A(1), Rescorla L, Henrichs J, Jaddoe VW, Verhulst FC, Tiemeier H.

Author information:
(1)The Generation R Study, Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, the Netherlands; 
Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry/Psychology, Erasmus Medical 
Center-Sophia Children's Hospital, Rotterdam, the Netherlands.

AIM: To characterise the relationship between preschool lexical delay and 
language comprehension and nonverbal intelligence at school age.
METHODS: The mothers of 2724 children completed the MacArthur Communicative 
Development Inventory when their child reached 1.5 years and the Language 
Development Survey and the Parent Report of Children's Ability at 2.5 years. 
When the children were 6 years old, we assessed vocabulary comprehension and 
nonverbal intelligence using Dutch batteries for language and nonverbal 
intelligence.
RESULTS: Demographic factors explained 9.9% of the variance in vocabulary 
comprehension and 8.7% of the variance in nonverbal intelligence at 6 years. 
Male gender, low maternal education and non-Western ethnic background predicted 
vocabulary comprehension delay at 6 years. Lexical development at 1.5 and 
2.5 years explained only 3.8% of the variance in language comprehension at the 
age of six. Late onset expressive vocabulary delay increased the risk of 
language comprehension and nonverbal intelligence delay at 6 years (OR=2.31, 95% 
CI: 1.62-3.29 and OR=1.74, 95% CI: 1.17-2.58, respectively).
CONCLUSION: Sociodemographic factors are important predictors of delays in 
language and nonverbal abilities as children enter school. In contrast, early 
expressive lexical delays, in particular before the age of two, have limited 
predictive power for language delays at the age of six.

©2013 Foundation Acta Paediatrica. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/apa.12449
PMID: 24117532 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


154. Acta Paediatr. 2014 Jan;103(1):62-9. doi: 10.1111/apa.12441. Epub 2013 Nov 15.

The importance of language in the home for school-age children with permanent 
hearing loss.

Vohr BR(1), Topol D, Watson V, St Pierre L, Tucker R.

Author information:
(1)Women and Infants Hospital, The Alpert Medical School of Brown University, 
Providence, RI, USA.

AIM: To determine the characteristics of the natural spoken language environment 
associated with better language skills at school age of children with permanent 
hearing loss (HL) screened in a newborn hearing screen programme.
METHODS: A language processor recorded language environment including child 
vocalisations (CVs), conversational turns (CTs), adult word count (AWC), 
percentage of language and percentage of silence in 23 children with HL and 41 
hearing controls. Relationships of language environment scores with Reynell 
language scores were analysed.
RESULTS: Children with HL had significantly lower Reynell comprehension scores 
(15-25 points; p = 0.0001) and expressive scores (7-12 points; NS) than hearing 
children. In regression analyses for the children with HL, after adjusting for 
age of entry to early intervention and stay in a NICU, every increase in ten 
percentage points of language in the home was associated with 7.2 points higher 
comprehension score (p = 0.027) and 9.99 points higher expressive score 
(p = 0.006). After adjusting for nonverbal intelligence, similar independent 
effects of the language environment on both comprehension (p = 0.027) and 
expressive scores (p = 0.006) were identified.
CONCLUSION: A rich language environment in the home is associated with better 
language abilities, which are necessary for academic success for children with 
permanent HL at school age.

©2013 Foundation Acta Paediatrica. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/apa.12441
PMID: 24117984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


155. Int J Nurs Pract. 2014 Dec;20(6):588-96. doi: 10.1111/ijn.12204. Epub 2013 Oct 
11.

Relationship between self-compassion and emotional intelligence in nursing 
students.

Şenyuva E(1), Kaya H, Işik B, Bodur G.

Author information:
(1)Nursing Education Department, Istanbul University Florence Nightingale 
Nursing Faculty, İstanbul, Turkey.

Nursing focuses on meeting physical, social and emotional health-care needs of 
individuals, families and society. In health care, nurses directly communicate 
with patients and try to empathize with them. Nurses give care under emotionally 
intense conditions where the individual undergoes pain and distress. Research is 
aimed at analysing the correlation of self-compassion and emotional intelligence 
of nursing students. The population of the research consisted of all the 
undergraduate students (571 students) of the 2010-2011 fall semester of the 
department of nursing. An information form, Self-compassion Scale and Emotional 
Intelligence Assessment Scale were utilized to obtain data for the research. For 
the assessment of the findings of research, Statistical Package for Social 
Sciences 16.0 for Windows was utilized for statistical analysis. Results 
indicated that there is a correlation between self-compassion and emotional 
intelligence and that emotional intelligence, which includes the individual 
perceiving one's emotions and using the knowledge one gained from them to 
function while directing thoughts, actions and professional applications, has 
positive contributions to the features of nurses with developed self-compassion.

© 2013 Wiley Publishing Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ijn.12204
PMID: 24118163 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


156. Eur J Public Health. 2014 Oct;24(5):850-6. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/ckt158. Epub 2013 
Oct 11.

In search for a public health leadership competency framework to support 
leadership curriculum-a consensus study.

Czabanowska K(1), Smith T(2), Könings KD(3), Sumskas L(4), Otok R(5), 
Bjegovic-Mikanovic V(6), Brand H(7); Leaders for European Public Health.

Author information:
(1)1 Department of International Health, CAPHRI, Faculty of Health, Medicine and 
Life Sciences, Maastricht University, Maastricht, The Netherlands 
kasia.czabanowska@maastrichtuniversity.nl.
(2)2 Centre for Leadership in Health and Social Care, Sheffield Hallam 
University, Sheffield, UK.
(3)3 Department of Educational Development and Research, Faculty of Health, 
Medicine and Life Sciences, Maastricht University, Maastricht, The Netherlands 4 
Graduate School of Health Professions Education, Maastricht University, 
Maastricht, The Netherlands.
(4)5 Department of Preventive Medicine, Institute of Health Research, Lithuanian 
University of Health Sciences, Kaunas, Lithuania.
(5)6 The Association of Schools of Public Health in the European Region 
(ASPHER), Brussels, Belgium.
(6)7 Faculty of Medicine, Centre School of Public Health and Management, 
University of Belgrade, Belgrade, Serbia.
(7)1 Department of International Health, CAPHRI, Faculty of Health, Medicine and 
Life Sciences, Maastricht University, Maastricht, The Netherlands.

Comment in
    Eur J Public Health. 2014 Oct;24(5):704-5.

BACKGROUND: Competency-based education is increasingly popular, especially in 
the area of continuing professional development. Many competency frameworks have 
been developed; however, few address leadership competencies for European public 
health professionals. The aim of this study was to develop a public health 
leadership competency framework to inform a leadership curriculum for public 
health professionals. The framework was developed as part of the Leaders for 
European Public Health project-supported by the EU Lifelong Learning Programme.
METHODS: The study was carried out in three phases: a literature review, 
consensus development panel and Delphi survey. The public health leadership 
competency framework was initially developed from a literature review. A 
preliminary list of competencies was submitted to a panel of experts. Two 
consensus development panels were held to evaluate and make changes to the 
initial draft competency framework. Then two rounds of a Delphi survey were 
carried out in an effort to reach consensus. Both surveys were presented through 
Survey Monkey to members of the Association of the Schools of Public Health in 
the European Region Working Group on Innovation in Public Health Teaching and 
Education.
RESULTS: The framework was developed consisting of 52 competencies organized 
into eight domains: Systems Thinking; Political Leadership; Collaborative 
Leadership: Building and Leading Interdisciplinary Teams; Leadership and 
Communication; Leading Change; Emotional Intelligence and Leadership in 
Team-based Organizations; Leadership, Organizational Learning and Development 
and Ethics and Professionalism.
CONCLUSION: The framework can serve as a useful tool in identifying gaps in 
knowledge and skills, and shaping competency-based continuing professional 
development leadership curricula for public health professionals in Europe.

© The Author 2013. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
European Public Health Association. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/ckt158
PMID: 24121098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


157. Am J Hematol. 2014 Feb;89(2):162-7. doi: 10.1002/ajh.23604.

Parent education and biologic factors influence on cognition in sickle cell 
anemia.

King AA(1), Strouse JJ, Rodeghier MJ, Compas BE, Casella JF, McKinstry RC, 
Noetzel MJ, Quinn CT, Ichord R, Dowling MM, Miller JP, Debaun MR.

Author information:
(1)Program in Occupational Therapy and Department of Pediatrics 
Hematology/Oncology, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, 
Missouri.

Children with sickle cell anemia have a high prevalence of silent cerebral 
infarcts (SCIs) that are associated with decreased full-scale intelligence 
quotient (FSIQ). While the educational attainment of parents is a known strong 
predictor of the cognitive development of children in general, the role of 
parental education in sickle cell anemia along with other factors that adversely 
affect cognitive function (anemia, cerebral infarcts) is not known. We tested 
the hypothesis that both the presence of SCI and parental education would impact 
FSIQ in children with sickle cell anemia. A multicenter, cross-sectional study 
was conducted in 19 US sites of the Silent Infarct Transfusion Trial among 
children with sickle cell anemia, age 5-15 years. All were screened for SCIs. 
Participants with and without SCI were administered the Wechsler Abbreviated 
Scale of Intelligence. A total of 150 participants (107 with and 43 without 
SCIs) were included in the analysis. In a multivariable linear regression model 
for FSIQ, the absence of college education for the head of household was 
associated with a decrease of 6.2 points (P = 0.005); presence of SCI with a 5.2 
point decrease (P = 0.017); each $1000 of family income per capita with a 0.33 
point increase (P = 0.023); each increase of 1 year in age with a 0.96 point 
decrease (P = 0.023); and each 1% (absolute) decrease in hemoglobin oxygen 
saturation with 0.75 point decrease (P = 0.030). In conclusion, FSIQ in children 
with sickle cell anemia is best accounted for by a multivariate model that 
includes both biologic and socioenvironmental factors.

Copyright © 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajh.23604
PMCID: PMC4310566
PMID: 24123128 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


158. Neurosci Biobehav Rev. 2014 Jul;44:124-41. doi: 10.1016/j.neubiorev.2013.09.015. 
Epub 2013 Oct 12.

EEG-neurofeedback for optimising performance. I: a review of cognitive and 
affective outcome in healthy participants.

Gruzelier JH(1).

Author information:
(1)Goldsmiths, University of London, UK. Electronic address: 
jgruzelier@gold.ac.uk.

A re-emergence of research on EEG-neurofeedback followed controlled evidence of 
clinical benefits and validation of cognitive/affective gains in healthy 
participants including correlations in support of feedback learning mediating 
outcome. Controlled studies with healthy and elderly participants, which have 
increased exponentially, are reviewed including protocols from the clinic: 
sensory-motor rhythm, beta1 and alpha/theta ratios, down-training theta maxima, 
and from neuroscience: upper-alpha, theta, gamma, alpha desynchronisation. 
Outcome gains include sustained attention, orienting and executive attention, 
the P300b, memory, spatial rotation, RT, complex psychomotor skills, implicit 
procedural memory, recognition memory, perceptual binding, intelligence, mood 
and well-being. Twenty-three of the controlled studies report neurofeedback 
learning indices along with beneficial outcomes, of which eight report 
correlations in support of a meditation link, results which will be supplemented 
by further creativity and the performing arts evidence in Part II. Validity 
evidence from optimal performance studies represents an advance for the 
neurofeedback field demonstrating that cross fertilisation between clinical and 
optimal performance domains will be fruitful. Theoretical and methodological 
issues are outlined further in Part III.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neubiorev.2013.09.015
PMID: 24125857 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


159. Reprod Biomed Online. 2014 Jan;28(1):54-63. doi: 10.1016/j.rbmo.2013.07.013. 
Epub 2013 Aug 27.

Neonatal and neurodevelopmental outcome of children aged 3-10 years born 
following assisted oocyte activation.

Vanden Meerschaut F(1), D'Haeseleer E(2), Gysels H(3), Thienpont Y(3), Dewitte 
G(4), Heindryckx B(5), Oostra A(4), Roeyers H(3), Van Lierde K(2), De Sutter 
P(5).

Author information:
(1)Department for Reproductive Medicine, University Hospital Ghent, De Pintelaan 
185-1P4, 9000 Ghent, Belgium. Electronic address: 
Frauke.VandenMeerschaut@UGent.be.
(2)Department of Otorhinolaryngology and Head and Neck Surgery, Speech and 
Language Pathology, University Hospital Ghent, De Pintelaan 185-2P2, 9000 Ghent, 
Belgium.
(3)Department of Experimental Clinical and Health Psychology, Research Group 
Developmental Disorders, Ghent University, Henri Dunantlaan 2, 9000 Ghent, 
Belgium.
(4)Centre for Developmental Disorders, De Pintelaan 185-2K5, 9000 Ghent, 
Belgium.
(5)Department for Reproductive Medicine, University Hospital Ghent, De Pintelaan 
185-1P4, 9000 Ghent, Belgium.

Assisted oocyte activation (AOA) using a calcium ionophore has been used for 
more than a decade following intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) 
fertilization failure. However, since AOA does not mimic precisely the 
physiological fertilization process, concerns exist about its use in human 
assisted reproduction. This study assessed the neonatal and neurodevelopmental 
outcome of children aged ≥ 3 years who had been born following AOA in our 
centre. Twenty-one children participated in the study (81% response rate; mean 
age 63.6 ± 21.07 months). Neonatal data were collected via questionnaires. 
Neurodevelopmental outcome was tested using the Reynell Developmental Language 
Scales or Clinical Evaluation of Language Fundamentals, Wechsler Preschool and 
Primary Scale of Intelligence or Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children, and 
the Movement Assessment Battery for Children III. Behaviour was scored by the 
Social Communication Questionnaire, the Child Behaviour Checklist and the 
Teachers Report Form. For all tests and questionnaires, the mean outcomes lay 
within the expected ranges. These are first data on the developmental outcome of 
AOA children. The high response rate and the robustness of the tests support the 
data, which are reassuring although still considered preliminary. Therefore, AOA 
should still be performed only in selected couples.

Copyright © 2013 Reproductive Healthcare Ltd. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rbmo.2013.07.013
PMID: 24125944 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


160. Pediatr Neonatol. 2014 Apr;55(2):114-9. doi: 10.1016/j.pedneo.2013.08.001. Epub 
2013 Oct 11.

The growth of very-low-birth-weight infants at 5 years old in Taiwan.

Wang PW(1), Fang LJ(2), Tsou KI(3); Taiwan Infant Developmental Collaborative 
Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Taipei City Hospital, Women and Children's Campus, 
Taipei, Taiwan. Electronic address: dae61@tpech.gov.tw.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, Taipei City Hospital, Women and Children's Campus, 
Taipei, Taiwan.
(3)School of Medicine, Fu-Jen Catholic University, Department of Pediatrics, 
Cardinal Tien Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan.

BACKGROUND: The goal of this study was to compare the growth and effect of 
growth on cognitive performance at 5 years of age of a group of 
very-low-birth-weight (VLBW) infants and a group of healthy full-term infants.
METHODS: Beginning in 1995, under the sponsorship of the Premature Baby 
Foundation, the Society of Neonatology, Taiwan, conducted a multicenter 
follow-up study of VLBW infants in Taiwan. The study enrolled 322 VLBW infants 
and 103 controls for assessment of growth data and cognitive performance at 
several time points from birth through to 5 years of age. Growth data were 
assessed with measurements of weight, height, and head circumference taken at 
the ages of 6 months, 12 months, 24 months, and 60 months. Cognitive performance 
was assessed at the age of 5 years. The VLBW infants were regarded as "failed" 
if a measurement was 2 standard deviations below the mean measurement of the 
control group. Neonatal and perinatal data had been collected prospectively as 
part of a longitudinal study. Cognitive performance was assessed using the 
Chinese version of the Wechsler Preschool and Primary Scale of Intelligence 
(WPPSI-R).
RESULTS: From 6 months to 5 years, VLBW infants had lower weight, height, and 
head circumference than the controls. Two hundred twenty-four VLBW infants 
(69.6%) returned for assessment at 5 years old. Of the 224 VLBW infants, 
complete sets of measurements of weight, height, and head circumference were 
obtained for 126 cases (56.3%), 127 cases (56.7%), and 106 cases (47.3%), 
respectively. Of these, 13 patients (10.3%) failed in weight, 11 patients (8.7%) 
failed in height, and 17 patients (16.0%) failed in head circumference at the 
age of 5 years. The mean WPPSI-R scores at the age of 5 years for VLBW children 
were: 94.1 ± 16.4 (performance IQ), 87.2 ± 12.8 (verbal IQ), and 89.5 ± 14.6 
(full IQ). All of these values were also lower than those of the control group, 
with the differences being statistically significant (p < 0.05). The WPPSI-R 
scores of VLBW children who failed in head circumference were notably lower than 
those of VLBW children whose head circumference had caught up with that of their 
peers.
CONCLUSION: The growth of VLBW infants was lower than that of healthy full-term 
infants through 5 years of age. The cognitive performance for VLBW children was 
also decreased compared to that of the control group, and there was an 
association between slower growth and decreased cognitive ability.

Copyright © 2013. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pedneo.2013.08.001
PMID: 24126010 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


161. Hist Psychol. 2014 Aug;17(3):223-36. doi: 10.1037/a0033740. Epub 2013 Oct 14.

Making up intelligence scales: De Sanctis's and Binet's tests, 1905 and after.

Cicciola E(1), Foschi R(1), Lombardo GP(1).

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Psicologia Dinamica e Clinica, "Sapienza" University of Rome.

Sante De Sanctis (1862-1935) and Alfred Binet (1857-1911), the latter in 
collaboration with Théodore Simon (1873-1960), introduced their intelligence 
tests to the scientific community at the Fifth International Congress of 
Psychology, held in Rome in 1905 on April 26-30. The cultural and political 
contexts within which De Sanctis and Binet developed their respective 
intelligence tests showed certain similarities. Nevertheless, De Sanctis's 
intelligence test and Binet's test did differ in certain respects. The objective 
of this article is to understand the differences and similarities between the 
Parisian and the Roman contexts in relation to mental testing, and to 
investigate the theoretical-methodological contributions of each. In addition, 
the article analyzes the "diversity" of De Sanctis's context and test, which did 
not influence the international psychology. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 
APA, all rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/a0033740
PMID: 24127867 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


162. J Paediatr Child Health. 2014 Jan;50(1):16-23. doi: 10.1111/jpc.12390. Epub 2013 
Oct 18.

Neurobehavioural correlates in older children and adolescents with obesity and 
obstructive sleep apnoea.

Tan E(1), Healey D, Schaughency E, Dawes P, Galland B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Women's and Children's Health, University of Otago, Dunedin, 
New Zealand.

AIM: The relationship between obstructive sleep apnoea (OSA) and poorer 
neurobehavioural outcomes in school-age children is well established, but the 
relationship in obese children and adolescents, in whom OSA is more common, is 
not so well established. We aimed to investigate this relationship in 
10-18-year-olds.
METHODS: Thirty-one participants with a mean body mass index (BMI) of 32.3 ± 4.9 
enrolled. BMI-for-age cut-offs were used to define obesity. Participants 
underwent polysomnography and were classified into OSA (apnoea-hypopnoea index 
(AHI) > 2 per hour) and non-OSA (AHI ≤ 2) groups. Intelligence, memory and 
learning, academic achievement, behaviour and executive functioning were 
assessed using the Wechsler Abbreviated Scale of Intelligence, Wide Range 
Assessment of Memory and Learning 2, Wechsler Individual Achievement Test II 
(WIAT-II), Behavioural Assessment System for Children 2 and Behaviour Rating 
Inventory of Executive Function, respectively.
RESULTS: Forty-eight per cent (15/31) were classified as having OSA, and 52% 
(16/31) as non-OSA. The obese cohort performed below the average of normative 
data on several neurobehavioural measures. WIAT-II maths scores were 
significantly lower (P = 0.034) in the OSA group than in the non-OSA group 
(means 84.5 vs. 94.6, respectively), losing significance after adjustment for 
IQ, age and gender. Self-reported school problems were significantly worse in 
the OSA group before and after multivariate adjustment (P = 0.010, Cohen's d = 
1.02). No other significant differences were found.
CONCLUSIONS: Results suggest that OSA may increase risk for some poorer 
educational and behavioural outcomes. The findings are reasonably consistent 
with and add to the evidence base of the few studies that have explored this 
relationship.

© 2013 The Authors. Journal of Paediatrics and Child Health © 2013 Paediatrics 
and Child Health Division (Royal Australasian College of Physicians).

DOI: 10.1111/jpc.12390
PMID: 24134790 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


163. Nucleic Acids Res. 2014 Jan;42(Database issue):D1222-8. doi: 10.1093/nar/gkt926. 
Epub 2013 Oct 16.

RiceWiki: a wiki-based database for community curation of rice genes.

Zhang Z(1), Sang J, Ma L, Wu G, Wu H, Huang D, Zou D, Liu S, Li A, Hao L, Tian 
M, Xu C, Wang X, Wu J, Xiao J, Dai L, Chen LL, Hu S, Yu J.

Author information:
(1)CAS Key Laboratory of Genome Sciences and Information, Beijing Institute of 
Genomics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100101, China, Research Institute 
of Subtropical Forestry, Chinese Academy of Forestry, Fuyang, Zhejiang 311400, 
China, School of Computer Science and Technology, Beijing Institute of 
Technology, Beijing 100081, China and College of Life Science and Technology, 
Huazhong Agricultural University, Wuhan 430070, China.

Rice is the most important staple food for a large part of the world's human 
population and also a key model organism for biological studies of crops as well 
as other related plants. Here we present RiceWiki (http://ricewiki.big.ac.cn), a 
wiki-based, publicly editable and open-content platform for community curation 
of rice genes. Most existing related biological databases are based on expert 
curation; with the exponentially exploding volume of rice knowledge and other 
relevant data, however, expert curation becomes increasingly laborious and 
time-consuming to keep knowledge up-to-date, accurate and comprehensive, 
struggling with the flood of data and requiring a large number of people getting 
involved in rice knowledge curation. Unlike extant relevant databases, RiceWiki 
features harnessing collective intelligence in community curation of rice genes, 
quantifying users' contributions in each curated gene and providing explicit 
authorship for each contributor in any given gene, with the aim to exploit the 
full potential of the scientific community for rice knowledge curation. Based on 
community curation, RiceWiki bears the potential to make it possible to build a 
rice encyclopedia by and for the scientific community that harnesses community 
intelligence for collaborative knowledge curation, covers all aspects of 
biological knowledge and keeps evolving with novel knowledge.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gkt926
PMCID: PMC3964990
PMID: 24136999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


164. Pediatr Neurol. 2014 Jan;50(1):31-7. doi: 10.1016/j.pediatrneurol.2013.07.022. 
Epub 2013 Oct 15.

Corticosteroid therapy for duchenne muscular dystrophy: improvement of 
psychomotor function.

Sato Y(1), Yamauchi A(2), Urano M(2), Kondo E(2), Saito K(3).

Author information:
(1)Affiliated Field of Genetic Medicine, Division of Biomedical Engineering and 
Science, Graduate Course of Medicine, Graduate School of Tokyo Women's Medical 
University, Tokyo, Japan; Institute of Medical Genetics, Tokyo Women's Medical 
University, Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Institute of Medical Genetics, Tokyo Women's Medical University, Tokyo, 
Japan.
(3)Affiliated Field of Genetic Medicine, Division of Biomedical Engineering and 
Science, Graduate Course of Medicine, Graduate School of Tokyo Women's Medical 
University, Tokyo, Japan; Institute of Medical Genetics, Tokyo Women's Medical 
University, Tokyo, Japan. Electronic address: saito@img.twmu.ac.jp.

BACKGROUND: Of the numerous clinical trials for Duchenne muscular dystrophy, 
only the corticosteroid prednisolone has shown potential for temporal 
improvement in motor ability. In this study, the effects of prednisolone on 
intellectual ability are examined in 29 cases of Duchenne muscular dystrophy 
because little information has been reported. And also, motor functions and 
cardiac functions were evaluated.
METHODS: The treated group was administered prednisolone (0.75 mg/kg) orally on 
alternate days and the compared with the untreated control group. Gene mutations 
were investigated. The patients were examined for intelligence quotient adequate 
for age, brain natriuretic peptide, creatine kinase, and manual muscle testing 
before treatment and after the period 6 months to 2 years.
RESULTS: Intelligence quotient scores of the treated increased to 6.5 ± 11.9 
(mean ± standard deviation) were compared with the controls 2.1 ± 4.9 (P = 
0.009). Intelligence quotient scores of the patients with nonsense point 
mutations improved significantly (21.0 ± 7.9) more than those with deletion or 
duplication (1.9 ± 9.0; P = 0.015). Motor function, such as time to stand up, of 
those treated improved significantly and brain natriuretic peptide level was 
reduced to a normal level after treatment in 15 patients (73%).
CONCLUSIONS: Our results demonstrate the effectiveness of prednisolone in 
improving intellectual impairment as well as in preserving motor function and 
brain natriuretic peptide levels. We presume that prednisolone has a 
read-through effect on the stop codons in the central nervous systems of 
Duchenne muscular dystrophy because intelligence quotient of point mutation case 
was improved significantly.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pediatrneurol.2013.07.022
PMID: 24138948 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


165. Neurol Med Chir (Tokyo). 2014;54(3):205-10. doi: 10.2176/nmc.cr2012-0343. Epub 
2013 Oct 21.

A case of thrombosed giant aneurysm of the azygos anterior cerebral artery: 
clipping under monitoring of motor evoked potentials of the lower extremities.

Yoneda H(1), Suzuki M, Ishihara H, Koizumi H, Nomura S, Fujii M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Clinical Neuroscience, Higher Biointegration, 
Yamaguchi University Graduate School of Medicine.

Giant aneurysms of the distal anterior cerebral artery (ACA), especially the 
azygos ACA, are rare. We treated a patient with giant aneurysm of the azygos ACA 
who underwent aspiration of thrombus and clipping under monitoring of motor 
evoked potentials of the lower extremities (L-MEPs), resulting in remarkable 
recovery of motor and intellectual function. A 72-year-old male was admitted 
with left motor weakness persisting for 2 weeks. Neurologically, disorientation 
and intellectual impairment were also noted. Imaging disclosed a 60-mm diameter 
aneurysm with heterochronous thrombi arising from the distal bifurcation of the 
azygos ACA. One month after the onset, radical surgery was scheduled. The azygos 
ACA was secured and the aneurysm was dissected, and the distal parts of the 
azygos ACA were confirmed. After removal of the thrombus, the neck was 
reconstructed with eight clips. L-MEPs disappeared due to occlusion of the 
azygos ACA for 20 minutes but reappeared after 22 minutes and normalized 78 
minutes after reperfusion. Motor weakness improved entirely with mini-mental 
state examination score of 29 points at 1 month after surgery. One year later, 
Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Third Edition and Wechsler Memory 
Scale-Revised scores reached normal levels. Review of reported cases found this 
aneurysm tends to occur in males in their 50s to 70s presenting with mass sign. 
Decompression of the aneurysm in the frontal lobe and monitoring of L-MEPs 
during temporary occlusion of the ACA are important.

DOI: 10.2176/nmc.cr2012-0343
PMCID: PMC4533418
PMID: 24140776 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest Disclosure None of the 
authors have a real or perceived conflict of interest regarding the work in the 
manuscript.


166. Vision Res. 2014 Jun;99:180-5. doi: 10.1016/j.visres.2013.10.003. Epub 2013 Oct 
16.

The effect of sleep in perceptual learning with complex objects.

Baeck A(1), Rentmeesters N(2), Holtackers S(3), Op de Beeck HP(4).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Biological Psychology, University of Leuven (KULeuven), 
Tiensestraat 102, 3000 Leuven, Belgium; Laboratory of Experimental Psychology, 
University of Leuven (KULeuven), Tiensestraat 102, 3000 Leuven, Belgium. 
Electronic address: Annelies.baeck@ppw.kuleuven.be.
(2)Laboratory of Biological Psychology, University of Leuven (KULeuven), 
Tiensestraat 102, 3000 Leuven, Belgium. Electronic address: 
Nils.rentmeesters@telenet.be.
(3)Laboratory of Biological Psychology, University of Leuven (KULeuven), 
Tiensestraat 102, 3000 Leuven, Belgium. Electronic address: Sjoerth@gmail.com.
(4)Laboratory of Biological Psychology, University of Leuven (KULeuven), 
Tiensestraat 102, 3000 Leuven, Belgium. Electronic address: 
Hans.OpdeBeeck@ppw.kuleuven.be.

Recognition of objects improves with training, but task performance also 
improves between sessions without further training. This offline learning seems 
to be influenced by post-training sleep, as is evidenced in perceptual learning 
studies with simple stimuli. In this study we aim to investigate the role of 
sleep in perceptual learning with complex natural and man-made objects. 
Participants were trained with a backward masking task during four sessions with 
12h between each training session (morning-evening-morning-evening or 
evening-morning-evening-morning). A larger improvement on performance was found 
after a night's sleep, than when subjects performed the task without having 
slept between training sessions. This effect was not influenced by the 
participants' chronotype or non-verbal intelligence. In addition, we replicated 
some key characteristics of perceptual learning with complex objects. 
Participants were retested six days after the last training session with the 
previously trained stimulus and new stimuli. The performance gains were 
long-lasting and specific to the trained stimulus set.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.visres.2013.10.003
PMID: 24140960 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167. Cognition. 2014 Jan;130(1):11-30. doi: 10.1016/j.cognition.2013.08.013. Epub 
2013 Oct 18.

Goal neglect and knowledge chunking in the construction of novel behaviour.

Bhandari A(1), Duncan J.

Author information:
(1)MRC Cognition and Brain Sciences Unit, 15 Chaucer Road, Cambridge CB2 7EF, 
UK. Electronic address: apoorva.bhandari@mrc-cbu.cam.ac.uk.

Task complexity is critical in cognitive efficiency and fluid intelligence. To 
examine functional limits in task complexity, we examine the phenomenon of goal 
neglect, where participants with low fluid intelligence fail to follow task 
rules that they otherwise understand. Though neglect is known to increase with 
task complexity, here we show that - in contrast to previous accounts - the 
critical factor is not the total complexity of all task rules. Instead, when the 
space of task requirements can be divided into separate sub-parts, neglect is 
controlled by the complexity of each component part. The data also show that 
neglect develops and stabilizes over the first few performance trials, i.e. as 
instructions are first used to generate behaviour. In all complex behaviour, a 
critical process is combination of task events with retrieved task requirements 
to create focused attentional episodes dealing with each decision in turn. In 
large part, we suggest, fluid intelligence may reflect this process of 
converting complex requirements into effective attentional episodes.

Copyright © 2013 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cognition.2013.08.013
PMCID: PMC3857602
PMID: 24141034 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


168. Brain Inj. 2014;28(1):15-9. doi: 10.3109/02699052.2013.847209. Epub 2013 Oct 21.

Executive dysfunction is related with decreased frontal lobe blood flow in 
patients with subarachnoid haemorrhage.

Uchikawa K(1), Inaba M, Kagami H, Ichimura S, Fujiwara T, Tsuji T, Otaka Y, Liu 
M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine .

OBJECTIVE: This study evaluated executive dysfunction in patients with 
subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) using the Behavioural Assessment of the 
Dysexecutive Syndrome (BADS) and correlated the occurrence of executive 
dysfunction with cerebral blood flow (CBF) reduction in the frontal lobe as 
assessed by single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT).
DESIGN: Correlational study.
SUBJECTS: Twenty-two patients who underwent microsurgical clipping at least 3 
months after SAH.
METHODS: This study evaluated the BADS and the Wechsler Adult Intelligence 
Scale-III (WAIS-III). In addition, it assessed activities of daily living (ADL). 
CBF was evaluated using SPECT. The patients were divided into the following 
groups according to the results of SPECT: (1) those with reduced CBF in the 
frontal lobe (reduced CBF group, n = 8) and (2) those with intact CBF (intact 
CBF group, n = 14).
RESULTS: The BADS score was significantly lower in the reduced CBF group 
compared with that of the intact CBF group, while there was no significant 
difference in the WAIS-III scores and ADL scale between the two groups.
CONCLUSION: Although this result was conducted with a small sample size, 
executive dysfunction correlates with reduced CBF in the frontal lobes of SAH 
patients. A detailed evaluation of executive function is suggested in SAH 
patients, even if the patient's intelligence test and ADL scale reveal no 
abnormalities.

DOI: 10.3109/02699052.2013.847209
PMID: 24144107 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


169. Pers Soc Psychol Bull. 2014 Feb;40(2):139-52. doi: 10.1177/0146167213507088. 
Epub 2013 Oct 21.

Mental contrasting and transfer of energization.

Sevincer AT(1), Busatta PD, Oettingen G.

Author information:
(1)1University of Hamburg, Germany.

Mental contrasting a desired future with present reality is a self-regulation 
strategy that fosters energization in line with a person's expectations of 
successfully attaining the desired future. We investigated whether physiological 
energization (measured by systolic blood pressure) elicited by mental 
contrasting a desired future of solving a given task transfers to effort in an 
unrelated task. As predicted, mental contrasting a desired future of excelling 
in an intelligence test (Study 1) and of writing an excellent essay (Study 2) 
triggered changes in energization that translated into physical effort in 
squeezing a handgrip (Study 1) and translated into mental effort in writing a 
get-well letter (Study 2). Results suggest that mental contrasting of solving 
one task triggers energization that may fuel effort for performing an unrelated 
task. Implications for intervention research are discussed.

DOI: 10.1177/0146167213507088
PMID: 24145296 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


170. J Pediatr. 2014 Jan;164(1):123-129.e1. doi: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2013.09.026. Epub 
2013 Oct 22.

Motor outcomes in children exposed to early psychosocial deprivation.

Levin AR(1), Zeanah CH Jr(2), Fox NA(3), Nelson CA(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Boston Children's Hospital/Harvard Medical School, 
Boston, MA; Laboratories of Cognitive Neuroscience, Boston Children's 
Hospital/Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA. Electronic address: 
April.Levin@childrens.harvard.edu.
(2)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Tulane University School of 
Medicine, New Orleans, LA.
(3)Department of Human Development and Quantitative Methodology, University of 
Maryland, College Park, MD.
(4)Laboratories of Cognitive Neuroscience, Boston Children's Hospital/Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, MA; Center on the Developing Child at Harvard 
University, Cambridge, MA.

OBJECTIVES: To determine the effect of psychosocial deprivation early in life on 
motor development, assess the impact of a foster care intervention on improving 
motor development, and assess the association between motor and cognitive 
outcomes in children with a history of institutional care.
STUDY DESIGN: In a randomized controlled trial, children living in Romanian 
institutions were randomly assigned to care as usual in the institution or 
placed in family-centered foster care as part of the Bucharest Early 
Intervention Project. The average age at placement into foster care was 23 
months. At age 8 years, the Bruininks-Oseretsky Test of Motor Proficiency, 
Second Edition, Short Form (BOT2-SF) was applied to assess the motor proficiency 
of children in both groups, as well as a never-institutionalized group from the 
Romanian community.
RESULTS: Children in the never-institutionalized group did significantly better 
on the BOT2-SF than children who had ever been institutionalized (P < .001). 
There was no significant difference in performance between children in the care 
as usual group and the foster care group. This finding also held true for all 
individual items on the BOT2-SF except sit-ups. Regression analyses revealed 
that the between-group and within-group differences in BOT2-SF scores were 
largely mediated by IQ.
CONCLUSION: Early deprivation had a negative effect on motor development that 
was not resolved by placement in foster care. This effect was predominantly 
mediated by IQ. This study highlights the importance of monitoring for and 
addressing motor delays in children with a history of institutionalization, 
particularly those children with low IQ.

Copyright © 2014 Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2013.09.026
PMCID: PMC4059764
PMID: 24161221 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


171. Ann Dyslexia. 2014 Apr;64(1):1-33. doi: 10.1007/s11881-013-0083-y. Epub 2013 Oct 
26.

Project DyAdd: implicit learning in adult dyslexia and ADHD.

Laasonen M(1), Väre J, Oksanen-Hennah H, Leppämäki S, Tani P, Harno H, Hokkanen 
L, Pothos E, Cleeremans A.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cognitive and Neuropsychology, Institute of Behavioural Sciences, 
University of Helsinki, P.O. Box 9, Siltavuorenpenger 1, FIN-00014, Helsinki, 
Finland, marja.laasonen@helsinki.fi.

In this study of the project DyAdd, implicit learning was investigated through 
two paradigms in adults (18-55 years) with dyslexia (n = 36) or with attention 
deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD, n = 22) and in controls (n = 35). In the 
serial reaction time (SRT) task, there were no group differences in learning. 
However, those with ADHD exhibited faster RTs compared to other groups. In the 
artificial grammar learning (AGL) task, the groups did not differ from each 
other in their learning (i.e., grammaticality accuracy or similarity choices). 
Further, all three groups were sensitive to fragment overlap between learning 
and test-phase items (i.e., similarity choices were above chance). 
Grammaticality performance of control participants was above chance, but that of 
participants with dyslexia and participants with ADHD failed to differ from 
chance, indicating impaired grammaticality learning in these groups. While the 
main indices of AGL performance, grammaticality accuracy and similarity choices 
did not correlate with the neuropsychological variables that reflected 
dyslexia-related (phonological processing, reading, spelling, arithmetic) or 
ADHD-related characteristics (executive functions, attention), or intelligence, 
the explicit knowledge for the AGL grammar (i.e., ability to freely generate 
grammatical strings) correlated positively with the variables of phonological 
processing and reading. Further, SRT reaction times correlated positively with 
full scale intelligence quotient (FIQ). We conclude that, in AGL, learning 
difficulties of the underlying rule structure (as measured by grammaticality) 
are associated with dyslexia and ADHD. However, learning in AGL is not related 
to the defining neuropsychological features of dyslexia or ADHD. Instead, the 
resulting explicit knowledge relates to characteristics of dyslexia.

DOI: 10.1007/s11881-013-0083-y
PMID: 24162872 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


172. Behav Res Methods. 2014 Sep;46(3):641-59. doi: 10.3758/s13428-013-0401-7.

Thin slices of creativity: using single-word utterances to assess creative 
cognition.

Prabhakaran R(1), Green AE, Gray JR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Yale University, Box 208205, New Haven, CT, 
06520-8205, USA.

We investigated the hypothesis that individual differences in creative cognition 
can be manifest even in brief responses, such as single-word utterances. 
Participants (n = 193) were instructed to say a verb upon seeing a noun 
displayed on a computer screen and were cued to respond creatively to half of 
the nouns. For every noun-verb pair (72 pairs per subject), we assessed the 
semantic distance between the noun and the verb, using latent semantic analysis 
(LSA). Semantic distance was higher in the cued ("creative") condition than the 
uncued condition, within subjects. Critically, between subjects, semantic 
distance in the cued condition had a strong relationship to a creativity factor 
derived from a battery of verbal, nonverbal, and achievement-based creativity 
measures (β= .50), and this relation remained when controlling for intelligence 
and personality. The data show that creative cognition can be assessed reliably 
and validly from such thin slices of behavior.

DOI: 10.3758/s13428-013-0401-7
PMCID: PMC4105589
PMID: 24163211 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


173. J Interprof Care. 2014 Mar;28(2):157-9. doi: 10.3109/13561820.2013.847407. Epub 
2013 Oct 28.

Interprofessional social and emotional intelligence skills training: study 
findings and key lessons.

Flowers LK(1), Thomas-Squance R, Brainin-Rodriguez JE, Yancey AK.

Author information:
(1)Equilibrium Dynamics , San Francisco, CA , USA .

Frequently changing demands in health care systems have focused attention on the 
need for emotional competence (EC) - social and emotional intelligence skills, 
to adapt efficiently, responsively and productively. This paper reports on 
findings from a workshop that introduced practical EC skills to nearly 1000 
participants in education, medicine, mental health and substance abuse 
counseling. The holistic EC presentations were designed to teach concepts and 
principles providing each participant with the opportunity for individualized 
learning. Ninety percent of the participants rated these presentations as 
valuable and useful. Following this positive response, the approach was adapted 
to train health professionals serving diverse populations. This report shares 
our experience teaching various professionals and describes preliminarily 
testing of the adapted EC training program on a small group of health 
professionals, whose responsibilities included teamwork, program design, 
teaching clients and patients EC basics to support healthy practices and 
self-care. Their positive response supports the need for expanded study and 
further investigation.

DOI: 10.3109/13561820.2013.847407
PMID: 24164409 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


174. Am J Med Genet B Neuropsychiatr Genet. 2014 Jan;165B(1):41-51. doi: 
10.1002/ajmg.b.32203. Epub 2013 Oct 26.

Impaired response inhibition is associated with self-reported symptoms of 
depression, anxiety, and ADHD in female FMR1 premutation carriers.

Kraan CM(1), Hocking DR, Georgiou-Karistianis N, Metcalfe SA, Archibald AD, 
Fielding J, Trollor J, Bradshaw JL, Cohen J, Cornish KM.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, Nursing, and Health Sciences, School of Psychology & 
Psychiatry, Monash University, Clayton, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.

Fragile X Mental Retardation 1 (FMR1) premutation carriers (PM-carriers) have a 
defective trinucleotide expansion on the FMR1 gene that is associated with 
continuum of neuropsychological and mental disorders. Currently, little is known 
about the distinct subcomponents of executive function potentially impaired in 
female PM-carriers, and there have been no investigations into associations 
between executive function and incidences of mental disorders. A total of 35 
female PM-carriers confirmed by Asuragen triple primed PCR DNA testing and 35 
age- and intelligence-matched controls completed tests of executive function 
(i.e., response inhibition and working memory) and self-reported on social 
anxiety, depression, and ADHD predominantly inattentive (ADHD-PI) symptoms. 
Compared to controls, PM-carriers were significantly elevated on self-reported 
social anxiety and ADHD-PI symptoms. Irrespective of mental symptoms, female 
PM-carries performed significantly worse than controls on a response inhibition 
test, and further investigations revealed significant correlations between 
executive function performance and self-reported symptoms of anxiety, depression 
and ADHD-PI. Critically, among PM-carriers with good executive function 
performance, no women exceeded threshold markers for probable caseness of mental 
disorder. However, rates of probable caseness were elevated in those with 
average performance (response inhibition: social anxiety: 41.7%; depression: 
20%; ADHD: 44.4%; working memory: social anxiety: 27.3%; depression: 9.1%; ADHD: 
18.2%) and highly elevated for those with poor executive function performance 
(response inhibition: social anxiety: 58.3%; depression: 80%; ADHD: 55.6%; 
working memory: social anxiety: 100%; depression: 50%; ADHD: 83.3%). These data 
suggest that subtle executive dysfunction may be a useful neuropsychological 
indicator for a range of mental disorders previously reported in female 
PM-carriers.

© 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.b.32203
PMID: 24166828 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


175. Int Psychogeriatr. 2014 Feb;26(2):239-46. doi: 10.1017/S1041610213001762. Epub 
2013 Oct 29.

Effect of methylphenidate on attention in apathetic AD patients in a randomized, 
placebo-controlled trial.

Lanctôt KL(1), Chau SA(1), Herrmann N(1), Drye LT(2), Rosenberg PB(3), Scherer 
RW(2), Black SE(1), Vaidya V(2), Bachman DL(4), Mintzer JE(4).

Author information:
(1)Departments of Psychiatry and Medicine (Neurology), and Brain Sciences 
Research Program, Sunnybrook Research Institute, Departments of Psychiatry, 
Pharmacology/Toxicology and Medicine (Neurology), University of Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada.
(2)Department of Epidemiology, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, 
Baltimore, MD, USA.
(3)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Johns Hopkins University 
School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(4)Department of Neurosciences, Alzheimer's Research and Clinical Programs, 
Medical University of South Carolina, SC, USA.

BACKGROUND: Little is known about the effect of methylphenidate (MPH) on 
attention in Alzheimer's disease (AD). MPH has shown to improve apathy in AD, 
and both apathy and attention have been related to dopaminergic function. The 
goal was to investigate MPH effects on attention in AD and assess the 
relationship between attention and apathy responses.
METHODS: MPH (10 mg PO twice daily) or placebo was administered for six weeks in 
a randomized, double-blind trial in mild-to-moderate AD outpatients with apathy 
(Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI) Apathy ≥ 4). Attention was measured with the 
Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale--Digit Span (DS) subtest (DS forward, 
selective attention) and apathy with the Apathy Evaluation Scale (AES). A mixed 
effects linear regression estimated the difference in change from baseline 
between treatment groups, defined as δ (MPH (DS week 6-DS baseline)) - (placebo 
(DS week 6-DS baseline)).
RESULTS: In 60 patients (37 females, age = 76 ± 8, Mini-Mental State Examination 
(MMSE) = 20 ± 5, NPI Apathy = 7 ± 2), the change in DS forward (δ = 0.87 (95% 
CI: 0.06-1.68), p = 0.03) and DS total (δ = 1.01 (95% CI: 0.09-1.93), p = 0.03) 
favored MPH over placebo. Of 57 completers, 17 patients had improved apathy 
(≥3.3 points on the AES from baseline to end point) and 40 did not. There were 
no significant associations between AES and NPI Apathy with DS change scores in 
the MPH, placebo, AES responder, or non-responder groups. DS scores did not 
predict apathy response to MPH treatment.
CONCLUSION: These results suggest MPH can improve attention and apathy in AD; 
however, the effects appear independent in this population.

DOI: 10.1017/S1041610213001762
PMCID: PMC3927455
PMID: 24169147 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: All authors have 
completed the Unified Competing Interest form at 
www.icmje.org/coi_disclosure.pdf and declare that (1) authors KLL, SC, NH, LTD, 
PBR, RWS, SEB, VV, DLB have no relationships with any companies that might have 
an interest in the submitted work in the previous 3 years; (2) their spouses, 
partners, or children have no financial relationships that may be relevant to 
the submitted work; and (4) have no non-financial interests that may be relevant 
to the submitted work. Author JEM, has relationships with NIA that might have an 
interest in the submitted work in the previous 3 years; (2) his spouses, 
partners, or children have no financial relationships that may be relevant to 
the submitted work; and (4) JEM has no non-financial interests that may be 
relevant to the submitted work.


176. Diabetes. 2014 Jan;63(1):343-53. doi: 10.2337/db13-0179. Epub 2013 Oct 29.

Neuroanatomical correlates of dysglycemia in young children with type 1 
diabetes.

Marzelli MJ(1), Mazaika PK, Barnea-Goraly N, Hershey T, Tsalikian E, Tamborlane 
W, Mauras N, White NH, Buckingham B, Beck RW, Ruedy KJ, Kollman C, Cheng P, 
Reiss AL; Diabetes Research in Children Network (DirecNet).

Collaborators: Tsalikian E, Tansey MJ, Coffey J, Cabbage J, Salamati S, Mauras 
N, Fox LA, Cato M, Englert K, Sikes K, Ewen T, Buckingham BA, Wilson DM, Aye T, 
Caswell K, Weinzimer SA, Tamborlane WV, Steffen A, Weyman K, Zgorski M, White 
NH, Arbelaez AM, Levandoski L, Starnes A, Hershey T, Beck RW, Ruedy KJ, Kollman 
C, Cheng P, Stevens B, Reiss AL, Barnea-Goraly N, Marzelli MJ, Mazaika PM, 
Hershey T, Considine C, Bondurant A, Cuneo M, Bihun E, Grafeman SJ.

Author information:
(1)Center for Interdisciplinary Brain Sciences Research, Department of 
Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Stanford University, Stanford, CA.

Comment in
    Diabetes. 2014 Jan;63(1):62-4.

Studies of brain structure in type 1 diabetes (T1D) describe widespread 
neuroanatomical differences related to exposure to glycemic dysregulation in 
adults and adolescents. In this study, we investigate the neuroanatomical 
correlates of dysglycemia in very young children with early-onset T1D. 
Structural magnetic resonance images of the brain were acquired in 142 children 
with T1D and 68 age-matched control subjects (mean age 7.0 ± 1.7 years) on six 
identical scanners. Whole-brain volumetric analyses were conducted using 
voxel-based morphometry to detect regional differences between groups and to 
investigate correlations between regional brain volumes and measures of glycemic 
exposure (including data from continuous glucose monitoring). Relative to 
control subjects, the T1D group displayed decreased gray matter volume (GMV) in 
bilateral occipital and cerebellar regions (P < 0.001) and increased GMV in the 
left inferior prefrontal, insula, and temporal pole regions (P = 0.002). Within 
the T1D group, hyperglycemic exposure was associated with decreased GMV in 
medial frontal and temporal-occipital regions and increased GMV in lateral 
prefrontal regions. Cognitive correlations of intelligence quotient to GMV were 
found in cerebellar-occipital regions and medial prefrontal cortex for control 
subjects, as expected, but not for the T1D group. Thus, early-onset T1D affects 
regions of the brain that are associated with typical cognitive development.

DOI: 10.2337/db13-0179
PMCID: PMC3868050
PMID: 24170697 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


177. Psychol Sci. 2014 Jan;25(1):76-84. doi: 10.1177/0956797613497022. Epub 2013 Oct 
30.

Developmental reversals in risky decision making: intelligence agents show 
larger decision biases than college students.

Reyna VF(1), Chick CF, Corbin JC, Hsia AN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Development, Cornell University.

Intelligence agents make risky decisions routinely, with serious consequences 
for national security. Although common sense and most theories imply that 
experienced intelligence professionals should be less prone to irrational 
inconsistencies than college students, we show the opposite. Moreover, the 
growth of experience-based intuition predicts this developmental reversal. We 
presented intelligence agents, college students, and postcollege adults with 30 
risky-choice problems in gain and loss frames and then compared the three 
groups' decisions. The agents not only exhibited larger framing biases than the 
students, but also were more confident in their decisions. The postcollege 
adults (who were selected to be similar to the students) occupied an interesting 
middle ground, being generally as biased as the students (sometimes more biased) 
but less biased than the agents. An experimental manipulation testing an 
explanation for these effects, derived from fuzzy-trace theory, made the 
students look as biased as the agents. These results show that, although framing 
biases are irrational (because equivalent outcomes are treated differently), 
they are the ironical output of cognitively advanced mechanisms of meaning 
making.

DOI: 10.1177/0956797613497022
PMCID: PMC4076289
PMID: 24171931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting Interests The authors 
declared that they had no conflicts of interest with respect to their authorship 
or the publication of this article.


178. J Biomed Inform. 2014 Feb;47:153-9. doi: 10.1016/j.jbi.2013.10.005. Epub 2013 
Oct 29.

An SVM-based high-quality article classifier for systematic reviews.

Kim S(1), Choi J(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, College of Medicine, Seoul National 
University, 103 Daehak-ro, Jongno-gu, Seoul 110-799, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Biomedical Engineering, College of Medicine, Seoul National 
University, 103 Daehak-ro, Jongno-gu, Seoul 110-799, Republic of Korea. 
Electronic address: jinchoi@snu.ac.kr.

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether SVM-based classifiers, which are trained on a 
combination of inclusion and common exclusion articles, are useful to experts 
reviewing journal articles for inclusion during new systematic reviews.
METHODS: Test collections were built using the annotated reference files from 19 
procedure and 4 drug systematic reviews. The classifiers were trained by 
balanced data sets, which were sampled using random sampling. This approach 
compared two balanced data sets, one with a combination of included and commonly 
excluded articles and one with a combination of included and excluded articles. 
AUCs were used as evaluation metrics.
RESULTS: The AUCs of the classifiers, which were trained on the balanced data 
set with included and commonly excluded articles, were significantly higher than 
those of the classifiers, which were trained on the balanced data set with 
included and excluded articles.
CONCLUSION: Automatic, high-quality article classifiers using machine learning 
could reduce the workload of experts performing systematic reviews when 
topic-specific data are scarce. In particular, when used as training data, a 
combination of included and commonly excluded articles is more helpful than a 
combination of included and excluded articles.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbi.2013.10.005
PMID: 24177318 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


179. J Pediatr (Rio J). 2014 Mar-Apr;90(2):155-60. doi: 10.1016/j.jped.2013.06.010. 
Epub 2013 Oct 30.

Cognitive and behavioral heterogeneity in genetic syndromes.

Pegoraro LF(1), Steiner CE(2), Celeri EH(3), Banzato CE(3), Dalgalarrondo P(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Psychology and Psychiatry, Faculty of Medical Sciences, 
Universidade de Campinas, Campinas, SP, Brazil; Pediatric Research Center, 
Department of Pediatrics, Faculty of Medical Sciences, Universidade de Campinas, 
Campinas, SP, Brazil. Electronic address: luizflp@fcm.unicamp.br.
(2)Department of Medical Genetics, Faculty of Medical Sciences, Universidade de 
Campinas, Campinas, SP, Brazil.
(3)Department of Medical Psychology and Psychiatry, Faculty of Medical Sciences, 
Universidade de Campinas, Campinas, SP, Brazil.
(4)Department of Medical Psychology and Psychiatry, Faculty of Medical Sciences, 
Universidade de Campinas, Campinas, SP, Brazil; Pediatric Research Center, 
Department of Pediatrics, Faculty of Medical Sciences, Universidade de Campinas, 
Campinas, SP, Brazil.

OBJECTIVE: this study aimed to investigate the cognitive and behavioral 
profiles, as well as the psychiatric symptoms and disorders in children with 
three different genetic syndromes with similar sociocultural and socioeconomic 
backgrounds.
METHODS: thirty-four children aged 6 to 16 years, with Williams-Beuren syndrome 
(n=10), Prader-Willi syndrome (n=11), and Fragile X syndrome (n=13) from the 
outpatient clinics of Child Psychiatry and Medical Genetics Department were 
cognitively assessed through the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children 
(WISC-III). Afterwards, a full-scale intelligence quotient (IQ), verbal IQ, 
performance IQ, standard subtest scores, as well as frequency of psychiatric 
symptoms and disorders were compared among the three syndromes.
RESULTS: significant differences were found among the syndromes concerning 
verbal IQ and verbal and performance subtests. Post-hoc analysis demonstrated 
that vocabulary and comprehension subtest scores were significantly higher in 
Williams-Beuren syndrome in comparison with Prader-Willi and Fragile X 
syndromes, and block design and object assembly scores were significantly higher 
in Prader-Willi syndrome compared with Williams-Beuren and Fragile X syndromes. 
Additionally, there were significant differences between the syndromes 
concerning behavioral features and psychiatric symptoms. The Prader-Willi 
syndrome group presented a higher frequency of hyperphagia and self-injurious 
behaviors. The Fragile X syndrome group showed a higher frequency of social 
interaction deficits; such difference nearly reached statistical significance.
CONCLUSION: the three genetic syndromes exhibited distinctive cognitive, 
behavioral, and psychiatric patterns.

Copyright © 2013 Sociedade Brasileira de Pediatria. Published by Elsevier 
Editora Ltda. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jped.2013.06.010
PMID: 24184301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


180. Eur Eat Disord Rev. 2014 Jan;22(1):15-24. doi: 10.1002/erv.2260.

Intellectual function in patients with anorexia nervosa and bulimia nervosa.

Weider S, Indredavik MS, Lydersen S, Hestad K.

OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to examine cognitive function in individuals with 
anorexia nervosa (AN) and bulimia nervosa (BN) on the basis of IQ measures, 
indexes and subtests of the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale – Third Edition 
(WAIS-III).
METHODS: A total of 41 patients with AN, 40 patients with BN and 40 healthy 
controls (HC), matched for sex, age and education, were recruited consecutively 
to complete the WAIS-III.
RESULTS: The AN group showed a significantly lower performance than the HC group 
on most global measures and on eight of the 13 administered subtests. Minor 
differences in verbal function were detected between the BN group and the HC 
group.
CONCLUSION: The patients with eating disorders showed normal intellectual 
functions compared with the normative population. However, the AN group 
displayed a consistently lower performance than the matched HC group, which 
performed above normative means. The BN group performed at a level between that 
of the AN and HC groups.

DOI: 10.1002/erv.2260
PMID: 24185818 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


181. Dev Psychol. 2014 Apr;50(4):1037-48. doi: 10.1037/a0034910. Epub 2013 Nov 4.

Rational thinking and cognitive sophistication: development, cognitive 
abilities, and thinking dispositions.

Toplak ME(1), West RF(2), Stanovich KE(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, York University.
(2)Department of Graduate Psychology, James Madison University.
(3)Department of Applied Psychology and Human Development, University of 
Toronto.

We studied developmental trends in 5 important reasoning tasks that are critical 
components of the operational definition of rational thinking. The tasks 
measured denominator neglect, belief bias, base rate sensitivity, resistance to 
framing, and the tendency toward otherside thinking. In addition to age, we 
examined 2 other individual difference domains that index cognitive 
sophistication: cognitive ability (intelligence and executive functioning) and 
thinking dispositions (actively open-minded thinking, superstitious thinking, 
and need for cognition). All 5 reasoning domains were consistently related to 
cognitive sophistication regardless of how it was indexed (age, cognitive 
ability, thinking dispositions). The implications of these findings for 
taxonomies of developmental trends in rational thinking tasks are discussed.

PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/a0034910
PMID: 24188038 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


182. Emotion. 2014 Feb;14(1):43-50. doi: 10.1037/a0034314. Epub 2013 Nov 4.

The effect of intranasal oxytocin on perceiving and understanding emotion on the 
Mayer-Salovey-Caruso Emotional Intelligence Test (MSCEIT).

Cardoso C(1), Ellenbogen MA(1), Linnen AM(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Research in Human Development, Department of Psychology, Concordia 
University.

Evidence suggests that intranasal oxytocin enhances the perception of emotion in 
facial expressions during standard emotion identification tasks. However, it is 
not clear whether this effect is desirable in people who do not show deficits in 
emotion perception. That is, a heightened perception of emotion in faces could 
lead to "oversensitivity" to the emotions of others in nonclinical participants. 
The goal of this study was to assess the effects of intranasal oxytocin on 
emotion perception using ecologically valid social and nonsocial visual tasks. 
Eighty-two participants (42 women) self-administered a 24 IU dose of intranasal 
oxytocin or a placebo in a double-blind, randomized experiment and then 
completed the perceiving and understanding emotion components of the 
Mayer-Salovey-Caruso Emotional Intelligence Test. In this test, emotion 
identification accuracy is based on agreement with a normative sample. As 
expected, participants administered intranasal oxytocin rated emotion in facial 
stimuli as expressing greater emotional intensity than those given a placebo. 
Consequently, accurate identification of emotion in faces, based on agreement 
with a normative sample, was impaired in the oxytocin group relative to placebo. 
No such effect was observed for tests using nonsocial stimuli. The results are 
consistent with the hypothesis that intranasal oxytocin enhances the salience of 
social stimuli in the environment, but not nonsocial stimuli. The present 
findings support a growing literature showing that the effects of intranasal 
oxytocin on social cognition can be negative under certain circumstances, in 
this case promoting "oversensitivity" to emotion in faces in healthy people.

PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/a0034314
PMID: 24188065 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


183. Neuropsychology. 2014 Mar;28(2):212-221. doi: 10.1037/neu0000034. Epub 2013 Nov 
4.

Duration of epilepsy and cognitive development in children: a longitudinal 
study.

van Iterson L(1), Zijlstra BJH(2), Augustijn PB(3), van der Leij A(2), de Jong 
PF(2).

Author information:
(1)SEIN Epilepsy Institute in the Netherlands Foundation, Department of 
Psychology.
(2)Research Institute of Child Development and Education, University of 
Amsterdam.
(3)SEIN Epilepsy Institute in the Netherlands Foundation, Department of 
Neurology.

OBJECTIVE: To study the pattern of cognitive development in relation to duration 
of epilepsy.
METHODS: Participants were 113 children with epilepsy referred because of 
concerns about their cognitive development and tested at least twice at tertiary 
epilepsy settings. Verbal, Performance, and Full Scale IQ were measured with 
Wechsler Intelligence Scales. Various epilepsy and demographic variables were 
included. Change over time was modeled with multilevel analysis for longitudinal 
data with variable measurement occasion.
RESULTS: The Verbal and Full Scales could be fitted best as a downward 
progressing function. Earlier in time, decline was likely to be largest; later 
in time, decline followed a continuous, dwindling course. A similar trend was 
seen for the Performance Scale. Initially, Verbal IQ was higher than Performance 
IQ but this discrepancy decreased over time. Later onset of epilepsy was 
associated with an attenuated decline of the Verbal Scale. None of the other 
epilepsy variables were related to the course of cognitive development. Higher 
parental education was associated with higher IQ, but was not protective against 
decline.
CONCLUSIONS: Verbal IQ, though initially spared, drops. The Performance IQ, 
which may have shown its vulnerability earlier in the course of the epilepsy, 
shows overall smaller changes. It is suggested that seizures impact 
synergistically on an affected brain, which leads to progressive cognitive 
decline. Earlier onset of epilepsy is associated with relatively higher VIQ, 
larger VIQ > PIQ discrepancies and more decline.

PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/neu0000034
PMID: 24188112 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


184. Neuropsychology. 2014 May;28(3):415-22. doi: 10.1037/neu0000024. Epub 2013 Nov 
4.

Reading in subjects with an oral cleft: speech, hearing and neuropsychological 
skills.

Conrad AL(1), McCoy TE(2), DeVolder I(2), Richman LC(1), Nopoulos P(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Iowa Children's Hospital.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, University of Iowa Carver College of Medicine.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate speech, hearing, and neuropsychological correlates to 
reading among children, adolescents, and young adults with nonsyndromic cleft of 
the lip and/or palate (NSCL/P).
METHOD: All testing was completed in a single visit at a Midwestern university 
hospital. Subjects in both the NSCL/P (n = 80) and the control groups (n = 62) 
ranged in age from 7-26 years (average age = 17.60 and 17.66, respectively). 
Subjects completed a battery of standardized tests evaluating intelligence, 
neuropsychological skills, and word reading. Subjects with NSCL/P also underwent 
speech assessment, and past audiology records were evaluated.
RESULTS: After controlling for age and socioeconomic status, subjects with cleft 
performed significantly worse on a test of word reading. For subjects with 
cleft, word reading deficits were not associated with measures of speech or 
hearing, but were correlated with impairments in auditory memory.
CONCLUSION: These findings show poorer reading among subjects with NSCL/P 
compared with those without. Further work needs to focus on correlates of 
reading among subjects with cleft to allow early identification and appropriate 
intervention/accommodation for those at risk.

DOI: 10.1037/neu0000024
PMCID: PMC4076825
PMID: 24188114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


185. Psychol Assess. 2014 Mar;26(1):207-14. doi: 10.1037/a0034832. Epub 2013 Nov 4.

Whose IQ is it?--Assessor bias variance in high-stakes psychological assessment.

McDermott PA(1), Watkins MW(2), Rhoad AM(1).

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Education.
(2)Department of Educational Psychology, Baylor University.

Assessor bias variance exists for a psychological measure when some appreciable 
portion of the score variation that is assumed to reflect examinees' individual 
differences (i.e., the relevant phenomena in most psychological assessments) 
instead reflects differences among the examiners who perform the assessment. 
Ordinary test reliability estimates and standard errors of measurement do not 
inherently encompass assessor bias variance. This article reports on the 
application of multilevel linear modeling to examine the presence and extent of 
assessor bias in the administration of the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for 
Children-Fourth Edition (WISC-IV) for a sample of 2,783 children evaluated by 
448 regional school psychologists for high-stakes special education 
classification purposes. It was found that nearly all WISC-IV scores conveyed 
significant and nontrivial amounts of variation that had nothing to do with 
children's actual individual differences and that the Full Scale IQ and Verbal 
Comprehension Index scores evidenced quite substantial assessor bias. 
Implications are explored.

2014 APA

DOI: 10.1037/a0034832
PMID: 24188149 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


186. Sch Psychol Q. 2014 Mar;29(1):52-63. doi: 10.1037/spq0000038. Epub 2013 Nov 4.

Bifactor structure of the Wechsler Preschool and Primary Scale of 
Intelligence--Fourth Edition.

Watkins MW(1), Beaujean AA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Educational Psychology, Baylor University.

The Wechsler Preschool and Primary Scale of Intelligence--Fourth Edition 
(WPPSI-IV; Wechsler, 2012) represents a substantial departure from its 
predecessor, including omission of 4 subtests, addition of 5 new subtests, and 
modification of the contents of the 5 retained subtests. Wechsler (2012) 
explicitly assumed a higher-order structure with general intelligence (g) as the 
second-order factor that explained all the covariation of several first-order 
factors but failed to consider a bifactor model. The WPPSI-IV normative sample 
contains 1,700 children aged 2 years and 6 months through 7 years and 7 months, 
bifurcated into 2 age groups: 2:6-3:11 year olds (n = 600) and 4:0-7:7 year olds 
(n = 1,100). This study applied confirmatory factor analysis to the WPPSI-IV 
normative sample data to test the fit of a bifactor model and to determine the 
reliability of the resulting factors. The bifactor model fit the WPPSI-IV 
normative sample data as well as or better than the higher-order models favored 
by Wechsler (2012). In the bifactor model, the general factor accounted for more 
variance in every subtest than did its corresponding domain-specific factor and 
the general factor accounted for more total and common variance than all 
domain-specific factors combined. Further, the domain-specific factors exhibited 
poor reliability independent of g (i.e., ωh coefficients of .05 to .33). These 
results suggest that only the general intelligence dimension was sufficiently 
robust and precise for clinical use.

PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/spq0000038
PMID: 24188289 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


187. Circulation. 2014 Jan 14;129(2):186-93. doi: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.113.002065. 
Epub 2013 Nov 4.

Mental disorders across the adult life course and future coronary heart disease: 
evidence for general susceptibility.

Gale CR(1), Batty GD, Osborn DP, Tynelius P, Rasmussen F.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Cognitive Ageing & Cognitive Epidemiology, Department of 
Psychology, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK (C.R.G., G.D.B.); MRC 
Lifecourse Epidemiology Unit, University of Southampton, Southampton, UK 
(C.R.G.); Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, University College 
London, London, UK (G.D.B.); University College London Mental Health Sciences 
Unit, University College London, London, UK (D.P.J.O.); Child and Adolescent 
Public Health Epidemiology Unit, Department of Public Health Sciences, 
Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden (P.T., F.R.); and Centre for 
Epidemiology and Community Medicine Stockholm County Council, Health Care 
Services, Stockholm, Sweden (P.T., F.R.).

Erratum in
    Circulation. 2015 May 19;131(20):e501.

Comment in
    Circulation. 2014 Jan 14;129(2):139-41.
    Circulation. 2014 Sep 23;130(13):e116.

BACKGROUND: Depression, anxiety, and psychotic disorders have been associated 
with an increased risk of coronary heart disease (CHD). It is unclear whether 
this association between mental health and CHD is present across a wider range 
of mental disorders.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Participants were 1 107 524 Swedish men conscripted at a 
mean age of 18.3 years. Mental disorders were assessed by psychiatric interview 
on conscription, and data on hospital admissions for mental disorder and CHD 
were obtained from national registers during 22.6 years of follow-up. An 
increased risk of incident CHD was evident across a range of mental disorders 
whether diagnosed at conscription or on later hospital admission. Age-adjusted 
hazard ratios (95% confidence intervals) according to diagnoses at conscription 
ranged from 1.30 (1.05, 1.62) (depressive disorders) to 1.90 (1.58, 2.38) 
(alcohol-related disorders). [corrected]. The equivalent figures according to 
diagnoses during hospital admission ranged from 1.49 (1.24-1.80) (schizophrenia) 
to 2.82 (2.53-3.13) (other substance use disorders). Associations were little 
changed by adjustment for parental socioeconomic status, or body mass index, 
diabetes mellitus, and blood pressure measured at conscription, but they were 
partially attenuated by the adjustment for smoking, alcohol intake, and 
intelligence measured at conscription, and for education and own socioeconomic 
position.
CONCLUSIONS: Increased risk of incident CHD is present across a range of mental 
disorders and is observable when the disorders are diagnosed at a young age.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.113.002065
PMCID: PMC4107269
PMID: 24190959 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


188. Compr Psychiatry. 2014 Jan;55(1):145-54. doi: 10.1016/j.comppsych.2013.06.011. 
Epub 2013 Oct 9.

Are neuropsychological deficits after trauma associated with ASD severity?

Suliman S(1), Troeman Z, Stein DJ, Seedat S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, MRC Anxiety Disorders Unit, Stellenbosch 
University, Cape Town, South Africa. Electronic address: sharain@sun.ac.za.

Acute stress disorder (ASD) is a fairly common sequela of traumatic exposure, 
and a significant proportion of those with the disorder go on to develop PTSD. 
Although neuropsychological deficits soon after trauma exposure have been 
associated with subsequent PTSD onset, few studies have assessed their 
association with ASD severity. We sought to investigate neuropsychological 
predictors of ASD severity in a sample of 128 motor vehicle accident (MVA) 
survivors, while controlling for potential confounders, such as demographic 
characteristics, other psychiatric diagnoses, and intelligence. We conducted 
clinical and neuropsychological assessments approximately 10.3 ± 4.5 days after 
an MVA. Our findings showed that delayed verbal recall was significantly 
associated with ASD severity, explaining 12.6% of the variance. However, a large 
proportion of the variance in ASD severity, 13.6%, was also explained by suicide 
risk. Effect size of the model was moderate (f(2) = 0.171). Suicide risk and 
delayed verbal recall appear to be moderately associated with ASD severity after 
a MVA and may be useful indicators of distress in in acute trauma survivors.

© 2014.

DOI: 10.1016/j.comppsych.2013.06.011
PMID: 24209608 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


189. Psychiatry Res. 2014 Jan 30;215(1):9-13. doi: 10.1016/j.psychres.2013.10.011. 
Epub 2013 Oct 23.

Inverse association between 18-carbon trans fatty acids and intelligence 
quotients in smoking schizophrenia patients.

Lohner S(1), Vágási J(2), Marosvölgyi T(2), Tényi T(3), Decsi T(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Pécs, József A. u. 7, H-7623 Pécs, 
Hungary. Electronic address: lohner.szimonetta@pte.hu.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, University of Pécs, József A. u. 7, H-7623 Pécs, 
Hungary.
(3)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University of Pécs, Pécs, 
Hungary.

This study aimed to investigate polyunsaturated (PUFA) and trans isomeric fatty 
acid status in schizophrenia patients. Fatty acid composition of plasma 
phospholipids (PL) and triacylglycerols (TG) was analyzed by gas chromatography 
in 29 schizophrenia patients and 15 healthy controls. We found no difference in 
PL n-3 fatty acid status between the two groups, while the values of 22:5n-6 
were significantly higher in patients with schizophrenia than in controls. In 
TG, values of docosatrienoic acid (20:3n-3) and docosapentaenoic acid (20:5n-3) 
were significantly higher in schizophrenia patients than in controls. We found 
no difference in the trans fatty acid status between patients and controls. In 
smoking schizophrenia patients significant negative correlations were detected 
between Wechsler adult full-scale intelligence quotients and values of total 
trans fatty acids in PL lipids, whereas no such correlation was seen either in 
non-smoking schizophrenia patients, or in healthy controls. While data obtained 
in the present study fail to furnish evidence for n-3 PUFA supplementation to 
the diet of patients with schizophrenia, they indicate that in smoking 
schizophrenia patients high dietary exposure to trans fatty acids is associated 
with lower intelligence quotients.

© 2013 Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2013.10.011
PMID: 24210662 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


190. J Neurol Sci. 2014 Jan 15;336(1-2):184-90. doi: 10.1016/j.jns.2013.10.037. Epub 
2013 Oct 29.

Relationships between ophthalmic artery flow direction and cognitive performance 
in patients with unilateral carotid artery stenosis.

Huang KL(1), Chang TY(1), Chang CH(1), Liu HL(2), Chang YJ(1), Liu CH(1), Lee 
TH(3), Ho MY(4).

Author information:
(1)Stroke Center and Department of Neurology, Linkou Chang Gung Memorial 
Hospital and College of Medicine, Chang Gung University, Taoyuan, Taiwan.
(2)Department of Medical Imaging and Radiological Sciences, Chang Gung 
University, Taoyuan, Taiwan.
(3)Stroke Center and Department of Neurology, Linkou Chang Gung Memorial 
Hospital and College of Medicine, Chang Gung University, Taoyuan, Taiwan. 
Electronic address: thlee@adm.cgmh.org.tw.
(4)Clinical Psychology Program, c/o Department of Occupational Therapy, Chang 
Gung University, Taoyuan, Taiwan. Electronic address: myho@mail.cgu.edu.tw.

BACKGROUND: Cerebral hypoperfusion is responsible for cognitive impairment in 
patients with severe carotid artery stenosis (CAS). The manifestation of 
reversed ophthalmic artery flow (ROAF) is not uncommon in patients with CAS, 
suggesting a state of intensified cerebral hypoperfusion. This study aimed to 
examine whether the presence of ROAF can exacerbate cognitive impairment in 
patients with severe unilateral CAS.
METHODS: One-hundred-and-two patients with CAS and 37 age-matched volunteers 
participated in this case-control study. Depending on the side of CAS and 
occurrences of ROAF, the patients were allocated to four groups: left CAS groups 
with ROAF (n=28) or without ROAF (n=22), and right CAS groups with ROAF (n=26) 
or without ROAF (n=26). All subjects underwent a battery of neuropsychological 
tests.
RESULTS: All patients performed worse than the control group on most tests. No 
significant differences were observed between patient groups (ps>0.05), except 
for inferior performance on psychomotor speed and visuospatial tests in the 
right ROAF group (ps<0.03). Hierarchical regression analyses indicated strong 
contributions of estimated premorbid intelligence to performance on most tests 
(ps<0.05). The severity of left and right CAS was distinctively associated with 
different functions. To a lesser extent, the severity of infarcts was also 
associated with impairment of psychomotor speed and some executive functions 
(ps<0.05). The contributions of ROAF to performance on most tests were 
negligible.
CONCLUSION: Patients with unilateral CAS may present with specific cognitive 
impairment relevant to the ipsilateral hemispheric functions. However, the 
manifestation of ROAF does not necessarily imply more extensive or severe 
cognitive impairment.

© 2013.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jns.2013.10.037
PMID: 24211063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. Neurotoxicology. 2014 Jan;40:16-22. doi: 10.1016/j.neuro.2013.10.006. Epub 2013 
Nov 6.

Exposure to metals during pregnancy and neuropsychological development at the 
age of 4 years.

Forns J(1), Fort M(2), Casas M(3), Cáceres A(3), Guxens M(4), Gascon M(3), 
Garcia-Esteban R(3), Julvez J(5), Grimalt JO(2), Sunyer J(6).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Research in Environmental Epidemiology (CREAL), Barcelona, Spain; 
Universitat Pompeu Fabra, Barcelona, Spain; CIBER Epidemiologia y Salud Pública 
(CIBERESP), Barcelona, Spain. Electronic address: jforns@creal.cat.
(2)Department of Environmental Chemistry, Institute of Environmental Assessment 
and Water Research, Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain.
(3)Centre for Research in Environmental Epidemiology (CREAL), Barcelona, Spain; 
Universitat Pompeu Fabra, Barcelona, Spain; CIBER Epidemiologia y Salud Pública 
(CIBERESP), Barcelona, Spain.
(4)Centre for Research in Environmental Epidemiology (CREAL), Barcelona, Spain; 
Universitat Pompeu Fabra, Barcelona, Spain; CIBER Epidemiologia y Salud Pública 
(CIBERESP), Barcelona, Spain; Institute for Risk Assessment Sciences, Division 
of Environmental Epidemiology, Utrecht University, The Netherlands.
(5)Centre for Research in Environmental Epidemiology (CREAL), Barcelona, Spain; 
Universitat Pompeu Fabra, Barcelona, Spain; CIBER Epidemiologia y Salud Pública 
(CIBERESP), Barcelona, Spain; Department of Environmental Health, Harvard School 
of Public Health, Boston, MA, USA; IMIM (Hospital del Mar Medical Research 
Institute), Barcelona, Spain.
(6)Centre for Research in Environmental Epidemiology (CREAL), Barcelona, Spain; 
Universitat Pompeu Fabra, Barcelona, Spain; CIBER Epidemiologia y Salud Pública 
(CIBERESP), Barcelona, Spain; IMIM (Hospital del Mar Medical Research 
Institute), Barcelona, Spain.

BACKGROUND: There is insufficient epidemiological evidence for deciding whether 
prenatal exposure to the current low-levels of metals in developed countries may 
affect neuropsychological function in early childhood.
OBJECTIVES: Our goal was to evaluate potential neurotoxic effects of prenatal 
exposure to seven metals (cobalt, copper, arsenic, cadmium, antimony, thallium 
and lead), during the 1st and 3rd trimester of pregnancy, on child 
neuropsychological development at 4 years of age.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This study was based on a population-based birth cohort 
established in Sabadell (Catalonia, Spain) as part of the INMA [Environment and 
Childhood] Project. Metals were measured in 485 urine samples collected from 
mothers during the 1st and 3rd trimester of pregnancy. We assessed the 
neuropsychological development of 553 4-year-olds with the McCarthy Scales of 
Childrens' Abilitites (MSCA), together with their ADHD symptomatology, using the 
ADHD-DSM-IV criteria. A total of 385 children were included in the present 
study.
RESULTS: We found no statistically significant associations between metals and 
general cognitive scale or executive function of the MSCA. We found negative 
coefficients for the exposure to cadmium 1st trimester, cadmium 3rd trimester 
and lead 3rd trimester on the general cognitive score of MSCA, although these 
results were not significant. We did not find any association between prenatal 
exposure to metals and ADHD symptomatology at the age of 4 years.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results do not suggest that prenatal exposure to current 
low-levels of metals impairs children's cognitive development during preschool 
years.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuro.2013.10.006
PMID: 24211492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


192. Biosystems. 2014 Jan;115:23-32. doi: 10.1016/j.biosystems.2013.10.007. Epub 2013 
Nov 6.

Dynamical and topological robustness of the mammalian cell cycle network: a 
reverse engineering approach.

Ruz GA(1), Goles E(2), Montalva M(2), Fogel GB(3).

Author information:
(1)Facultad de Ingeniería y Ciencias, Universidad Adolfo Ibáñez, Av. Diagonal 
Las Torres 2640, Santiago, Chile. Electronic address: gonzalo.ruz@uai.cl.
(2)Facultad de Ingeniería y Ciencias, Universidad Adolfo Ibáñez, Av. Diagonal 
Las Torres 2640, Santiago, Chile.
(3)Natural Selection, Inc., 5910 Pacific Center Boulevard, Suite 315, San Diego, 
CA 92121, USA.

A common gene regulatory network model is the threshold Boolean network, used 
for example to model the Arabidopsis thaliana floral morphogenesis network or 
the fission yeast cell cycle network. In this paper, we analyze a logical model 
of the mammalian cell cycle network and its threshold Boolean network 
equivalent. Firstly, the robustness of the network was explored with respect to 
update perturbations, in particular, what happened to the attractors for all the 
deterministic updating schemes. Results on the number of different limit cycles, 
limit cycle lengths, basin of attraction size, for all the deterministic 
updating schemes were obtained through mathematical and computational tools. 
Secondly, we analyzed the topology robustness of the network, by reconstructing 
synthetic networks that contained exactly the same attractors as the original 
model by means of a swarm intelligence approach. Our results indicate that 
networks may not be very robust given the great variety of limit cycles that a 
network can obtain depending on the updating scheme. In addition, we identified 
an omnipresent network with interactions that match with the original model as 
well as the discovery of new interactions. The techniques presented in this 
paper are general, and can be used to analyze other logical or threshold Boolean 
network models of gene regulatory networks.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biosystems.2013.10.007
PMID: 24212100 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


193. Anxiety Stress Coping. 2014;27(4):410-21. doi: 10.1080/10615806.2013.864388. 
Epub 2013 Dec 10.

An investigation of cognitive test performance across conditions of silence, 
background noise and music as a function of neuroticism.

Reynolds J(1), McClelland A, Furnham A.

Author information:
(1)a Research Department of Clinical, Educational and Health Psychology , 
University College London , London , UK.

The present study investigates the role of trait neuroticism on cognitive 
performance under distraction. Seventy participants were given a personality 
test and then undertook a number of different cognitive tasks in silence, in the 
presence of popular music and in background noise. It was predicted that 
performance on a general intelligence test, a test of abstract reasoning, and a 
mental arithmetic task would be adversely affected by background sounds. It was 
predicted that neuroticism would be negatively correlated with performance on 
the mental arithmetic task but only when the individuals were working in the 
presence of background sound. Stable vs. unstable participant's performance on a 
mental arithmetic task during noise was significantly higher as predicted. The 
results provided partial support for the hypotheses and are discussed with 
respect to previous findings in the literature on personality (particularly 
introversion-extraversion) and distraction on cognitive task performance. 
Limitations are noted.

DOI: 10.1080/10615806.2013.864388
PMCID: PMC4066931
PMID: 24215564 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


194. J Psycholinguist Res. 2014 Dec;43(6):715-35. doi: 10.1007/s10936-013-9275-1.

Morphological structure processing during word recognition and its relationship 
to character reading among third-grade Chinese children.

Liu D(1), McBride-Chang C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Special Education and Counselling, The Hong Kong Institute of 
Education, 10 Lo Ping Road, Tai Po, NT, Hong Kong, duoliu@ied.edu.hk.

In the present study, we explored the characteristics of morphological structure 
processing during word recognition among third grade Chinese children and its 
possible relationship with Chinese character reading. By using the modified 
priming lexical decision paradigm, a significant morphological structure priming 
effect was found in the subject analysis when reaction time difference was 
considered as dependent variable. In the regression analyses, the children's 
implicit morphological structure processing demonstrated a significant effect on 
Chinese character reading, even though its effect became non-significant when 
morphological awareness was entered. We achieved this result after controlling 
for the children's age, non-verbal intelligence, and phonological awareness. 
These findings indicate that third grade Chinese children are sensitive to 
morphological structure information in the processing of compound words. 
Moreover, such sensitivity is, to some extent, a good predictor of Chinese 
children's word reading performance.

DOI: 10.1007/s10936-013-9275-1
PMID: 24218054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


195. J Exp Psychol Gen. 2014 Jun;143(3):1097-111. doi: 10.1037/a0034985. Epub 2013 
Nov 11.

Does evaluative pressure make you less or more distractible? Role of top-down 
attentional control over response selection.

Normand A(1), Bouquet CA(1), Croizet JC(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre de Recherche sur la Cognition et l'Apprentissage (CERCA UMR 7295), 
Université de Poitiers.

People's ability to resist cognitive distraction is crucial in many situations. 
The present research examines individuals' resistance to attentional distraction 
under conditions of evaluative pressure. In a series of 4 studies, participants 
had to complete various attentional tasks while believing their intelligence was 
or was not under the scrutiny of an experimenter. Using a spatial cuing 
paradigm, Studies 1 through 3 demonstrated that feeling evaluated led 
participants to implement stronger feature-based attentional control, which 
resulted in more (or less) distraction when irrelevant information matched (did 
not match) the searched-for target. Study 4 ruled out the possibility that the 
above effects were due to voluntary shifts of attention and demonstrated that 
the control settings implemented under evaluative pressure resulted in stronger 
goal-contingent response priming. Thus, the way individuals relate to the 
task-the performance context in which they are-induces strong attentional 
selection biases. Altogether, the present findings highlight an overlooked form 
of top-down modulation of attention based on performance self-relevance. 
Implications for both the current models of attentional control and the current 
hypotheses on the impact of evaluative pressure on cognition, as well as the 
consequences for more complex performances, are discussed.

PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/a0034985
PMID: 24219022 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


196. Dev Psychol. 2014 Apr;50(4):1049-1059. doi: 10.1037/a0034913. Epub 2013 Nov 11.

The malleability of working memory and visuospatial skills: a randomized 
controlled study in older adults.

Stepankova H(1), Lukavsky J(1), Buschkuehl M(2), Kopecek M(1), Ripova D(1), 
Jaeggi SM(2).

Author information:
(1)Prague Psychiatric Center.
(2)School of Education, University of California-Irvine.

There is accumulating evidence that training on working memory (WM) generalizes 
to other nontrained domains, and there are reports of transfer effects extending 
as far as to measures of fluid intelligence. Although there have been several 
demonstrations of such transfer effects in young adults and children, they have 
been difficult to demonstrate in older adults. In this study, we investigated 
the generalizing effects of an adaptive WM intervention on nontrained measures 
of WM and visuospatial skills. We randomly assigned healthy older adults to 
train on a verbal n-back task over the course of a month for either 10 or 20 
sessions. Their performance change was compared with that of a control group. 
Our results revealed reliable group effects in nontrained standard clinical 
measures of WM and visuospatial skills in that both training groups outperformed 
the control group. We also observed a dose-response effect, that is, a positive 
relationship between training frequency and the gain in visuospatial skills; 
this finding was further confirmed by a positive correlation between training 
improvement and transfer. The improvements in visuospatial skills emerged even 
though the intervention was restricted to the verbal domain. Our work has 
important implications in that our data provide further evidence for plasticity 
of cognitive functions in old age.

PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/a0034913
PMID: 24219314 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


197. Emotion. 2014 Feb;14(1):145-160. doi: 10.1037/a0034287. Epub 2013 Nov 11.

In the ear of the beholder: how age shapes emotion processing in nonverbal 
vocalizations.

Lima CF(1), Alves T(1), Scott SK(2), Castro SL(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Psychology and Education, University of Porto.
(2)Institute of Cognitive Neuroscience, University College London.

It is well established that emotion recognition of facial expressions declines 
with age, but evidence for age-related differences in vocal emotions is more 
limited. This is especially true for nonverbal vocalizations such as laughter, 
sobs, or sighs. In this study, 43 younger adults (M = 22 years) and 43 older 
ones (M = 61.4 years) provided multiple emotion ratings of nonverbal emotional 
vocalizations. Contrasting with previous research, which often includes only one 
positive emotion (happiness) versus several negative ones, we examined 4 
positive and 4 negative emotions: achievement/triumph, amusement, pleasure, 
relief, anger, disgust, fear, and sadness. We controlled for hearing loss and 
assessed general cognitive decline, cognitive control, verbal intelligence, 
working memory, current affect, emotion regulation, and personality. Older 
adults were less sensitive than younger ones to the intended vocal emotions, as 
indicated by decrements in ratings on the intended emotion scales and accuracy. 
These effects were similar for positive and negative emotions, and they were 
independent of age-related differences in cognitive, affective, and personality 
measures. Regression analyses revealed that younger and older participants' 
responses could be predicted from the acoustic properties of the temporal, 
intensity, fundamental frequency, and spectral profile of the vocalizations. The 
two groups were similarly efficient in using the acoustic cues, but there were 
differences in the patterns of emotion-specific predictors. This study suggests 
that ageing produces specific changes on the processing of nonverbal 
vocalizations. That decrements were not attenuated for positive emotions 
indicates that they cannot be explained by a positivity effect in older adults.

PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/a0034287
PMID: 24219391 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


198. Emotion. 2014 Feb;14(1):64-73. doi: 10.1037/a0034392. Epub 2013 Nov 11.

Emotional intelligence predicts success in medical school.

Libbrecht N(1), Lievens F(1), Carette B(1), Côté S(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Personnel Management and Work and Organizational Psychology, 
Ghent University.
(2)Joseph L. Rotman School of Management, University of Toronto.

Accumulating evidence suggests that effective communication and interpersonal 
sensitivity during interactions between doctors and patients impact therapeutic 
outcomes. There is an important need to identify predictors of these behaviors, 
because traditional tests used in medical admissions offer limited predictions 
of "bedside manners" in medical practice. This study examined whether emotional 
intelligence would predict the performance of 367 medical students in medical 
school courses on communication and interpersonal sensitivity. One of the 
dimensions of emotional intelligence, the ability to regulate emotions, 
predicted performance in courses on communication and interpersonal sensitivity 
over the next 3 years of medical school, over and above cognitive ability and 
conscientiousness. Emotional intelligence did not predict performance on courses 
on medical subject domains. The results suggest that medical schools may better 
predict who will communicate effectively and show interpersonal sensitivity if 
they include measures of emotional intelligence in their admission systems.

PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/a0034392
PMID: 24219393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


199. Dyslexia. 2014 Feb;20(1):19-37. doi: 10.1002/dys.1468. Epub 2013 Nov 12.

WISC-III cognitive profiles in children with developmental dyslexia: specific 
cognitive disability and diagnostic utility.

Moura O(1), Simões MR, Pereira M.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Psychology and Education Sciences, University of Coimbra, Coimbra, 
Portugal.

This study analysed the usefulness of the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for 
Children-Third Edition in identifying specific cognitive impairments that are 
linked to developmental dyslexia (DD) and the diagnostic utility of the most 
common profiles in a sample of 100 Portuguese children (50 dyslexic and 50 
normal readers) between the ages of 8 and 12 years. Children with DD exhibited 
significantly lower scores in the Verbal Comprehension Index (except the 
Vocabulary subtest), Freedom from Distractibility Index (FDI) and Processing 
Speed Index subtests, with larger effect sizes than normal readers in 
Information, Arithmetic and Digit Span. The Verbal-Performance IQs 
discrepancies, Bannatyne pattern and the presence of FDI; Arithmetic, Coding, 
Information and Digit Span subtests (ACID) and Symbol Search, Coding, Arithmetic 
and Digit Span subtests (SCAD) profiles (full or partial) in the lowest subtests 
revealed a low diagnostic utility. However, the receiver operating 
characteristic curve and the optimal cut-off score analyses of the composite 
ACID; FDI and SCAD profiles scores showed moderate accuracy in correctly 
discriminating dyslexic readers from normal ones. These results suggested that 
in the context of a comprehensive assessment, the Wechsler Intelligence Scale 
for Children-Third Edition provides some useful information about the presence 
of specific cognitive disabilities in DD. Practitioner Points. Children with 
developmental dyslexia revealed significant deficits in the Wechsler 
Intelligence Scale for Children-Third Edition subtests that rely on verbal 
abilities, processing speed and working memory. The composite Arithmetic, 
Coding, Information and Digit Span subtests (ACID); Freedom from Distractibility 
Index and Symbol Search, Coding, Arithmetic and Digit Span subtests (SCAD) 
profile scores showed moderate accuracy in correctly discriminating dyslexics 
from normal readers. Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children-Third Edition may 
provide some useful information about the presence of specific cognitive 
disabilities in developmental dyslexia.

Copyright © 2013 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/dys.1468
PMID: 24222530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


200. Nurse Educ Today. 2014 Jun;34(6):934-9. doi: 10.1016/j.nedt.2013.10.012. Epub 
2013 Oct 28.

Conflict management styles, emotional intelligence and implicit theories of 
personality of nursing students: a cross-sectional study.

Chan JC(1), Sit EN(2), Lau WM(2).

Author information:
(1)The Nethersole School of Nursing, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, 
Shatin, The New Territories, Hong Kong. Electronic address: 
chanchungyan@cuhk.edu.hk.
(2)The Nethersole School of Nursing, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, 
Shatin, The New Territories, Hong Kong.

BACKGROUND: Conflict management is an essential skill that nursing students need 
to master as conflict is unavoidable in clinical settings. Examining nursing 
students' conflict management styles and the associating factors can inform 
nurse educators on how to equip nursing students for effective conflict 
management.
OBJECTIVES: This study aimed at examining undergraduate nursing students 
conflict management styles in managing conflict with their supervisors in 
clinical placement. The associations of emotional intelligence and implicit 
theories of personality with conflict management styles were also investigated.
DESIGN: This is a cross-sectional quantitative survey.
SETTING: This study took place at a nursing school at a university in Hong Kong.
PARTICIPANTS: 568 undergraduate nursing students participated in the study.
METHODS: Students completed a questionnaire which consisted of demographics, 
Measure of Implicit Theories of Personality, The Schutte Emotional Intelligence 
Scale (SEIS) and The Rahim Organizational Conflict Inventory-II (ROCI-II) and 
received a HKD 20 book coupon as compensation. The data were analyzed by 
descriptive statistics, reliability analyses, t-tests, correlational and linear 
regression analyses.
RESULTS: For managing conflict with clinical supervisors, students used obliging 
and integrating most frequently whereas used dominating least. Emotional 
intelligence was a significant predictor of all five conflict management styles. 
The higher the emotional intelligence, the more students used integrating, 
obliging, compromising and dominating. The lower the emotional intelligence, the 
more students used avoiding. There was a significant association between 
implicit theories of personality and compromising. The less malleable students 
perceived personality to be, the more they used compromising.
CONCLUSIONS: Emotional intelligence was significantly associated with all five 
conflict management styles while implicit theories of personality were 
significantly associated with compromising style only. Efforts of nurse 
educators to enhance students' conflict management skills and emotional 
intelligence to face conflicts in clinical settings are discussed.

© 2013.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nedt.2013.10.012
PMID: 24225346 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


201. J Clin Neurosci. 2014 Mar;21(3):445-50. doi: 10.1016/j.jocn.2013.06.005. Epub 
2013 Nov 11.

Cognitive predictors of cognitive change following bilateral subthalamic nucleus 
deep brain stimulation in Parkinson's disease.

Yágüez L(1), Costello A(2), Moriarty J(3), Hulse N(4), Selway R(4), Clough C(5), 
Samuel M(6), Ashkan K(7).

Author information:
(1)King's College London, Department of Psychology PO77, Institute of 
Psychiatry, De Crespigny Park, London SE5 8AF, UK; King's Health Partners, 
London, UK. Electronic address: Lidia.yaguez@kcl.ac.uk.
(2)Neuropsychology Department, King's College Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, 
London, UK; King's Health Partners, London, UK.
(3)Department of Psychological Medicine, South London and Maudsley Foundation 
Trust, London, UK; King's Health Partners, London, UK.
(4)Department of Neurosurgery, King's College Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, 
London, UK; King's Health Partners, London, UK.
(5)Department of Neurology, King's College Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, 
London, UK; King's Health Partners, London, UK.
(6)Department of Neurology, King's College Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, 
London, UK; East Kent Hospitals NHS University Foundation Trust, UK; King's 
Health Partners, London, UK.
(7)Department of Neurosurgery, King's College Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, 
London, UK; King's College London, Department of Clinical Neurosciences, 
Institute of Psychiatry, London, UK; King's Health Partners, London, UK.

The beneficial effects of deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the subthalamic 
nucleus (STN) for the motor symptoms in advanced Parkinson's disease (PD) are 
well established. Early in PD, mild cognitive impairment is present in a 
proportion of patients. Hence, it can also be present in PD patients considered 
for DBS. The potential impact of even a modest decline post-surgically is a 
concern because it could result in impaired cognitive function. Therefore, 
attempts to determine which pre-operative cognitive measures predict 
post-operative cognitive change warrant further attention. We report our 
findings in a cohort of 30 routinely operated non-demented patients who 
underwent detailed neuropsychological assessments on average 7.1 months before 
and 9.4 months after STN DBS. We report the individual and group differences 
pre- and post-DBS. Stepwise regression analysis was used to analyse the best 
cognitive predictors of post-operative cognitive changes. We describe our data 
in relation to published normative data. Post-STN DBS, the immediate story 
recall component of verbal memory was the most affected cognitive function 
showing a significant decline in its group mean with a large effect size. The 
best predictors for this change were pre-surgical list learning and Full Scale 
Intelligence Quotient. These results suggest that non-demented patients, with 
even mild impairments in both general intellectual functions and list learning, 
may be at greater risk of decline in other aspects of verbal memory after STN 
DBS. Pre-existing mild executive dysfunction was not influenced 
post-operatively. These findings may help selection and consent for STN DBS.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jocn.2013.06.005
PMID: 24231557 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


202. Psychon Bull Rev. 2014 Jun;21(3):721-7. doi: 10.3758/s13423-013-0523-z.

Using contextual analysis to investigate the nature of spatial memory.

Siedlecki KL, Salthouse TA.

The present study investigated the properties of episodic spatial memory by 
conducting contextual analysis on spatial memory tasks in a large sample of 
individuals (N = 778) between the ages of 18 and 92. The results suggest that 
episodic spatial memory as measured by a dot location task is not uniquely 
influenced by memory but is strongly influenced by fluid ability (Gf). The 
spatial memory–Gf relationship is evident and robust even when spatial memory is 
operationalized with a very simple single-dot location task, suggesting that 
allocation of attention across space may play a role in the relationship. 
Results also indicate that the spatial memory–Gf relations are not dependent on 
complexity of processing, because Gf has a similar magnitude of relations with a 
more complex version of the dot location task. Collectively, the results suggest 
that spatial memory likely represents some aspect of fluid intelligence and is 
not uniquely related to measures of verbal memory.

DOI: 10.3758/s13423-013-0523-z
PMCID: PMC4291521
PMID: 24234277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203. J Autism Dev Disord. 2014 Jun;44(6):1332-46. doi: 10.1007/s10803-013-1993-6.

Using the circumplex model of affect to study valence and arousal ratings of 
emotional faces by children and adults with autism spectrum disorders.

Tseng A, Bansal R, Liu J, Gerber AJ, Goh S, Posner J, Colibazzi T, Algermissen 
M, Chiang IC, Russell JA, Peterson BS.

The affective circumplex model holds that emotions can be described as linear 
combinations of two underlying, independent neurophysiological systems (arousal, 
valence). Given research suggesting individuals with autism spectrum disorders 
(ASD) have difficulty processing emotions, we used the circumplex model to 
compare how individuals with ASD and typically-developing (TD) individuals 
respond to facial emotions. Participants (51 ASD, 80 TD) rated facial 
expressions along arousal and valence dimensions; we fitted closed, smooth, 
2-dimensional curves to their ratings to examine overall circumplex contours. We 
modeled individual and group influences on parameters describing curve contours 
to identify differences in dimensional effects across groups. Significant main 
effects of diagnosis indicated the ASD-group’s ratings were constricted for the 
entire circumplex, suggesting range constriction across all emotions. Findings 
did not change when covarying for overall intelligence.

DOI: 10.1007/s10803-013-1993-6
PMCID: PMC4301408
PMID: 24234677 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


204. Appl Neuropsychol Child. 2014;3(1):1-9. doi: 10.1080/21622965.2012.695882. Epub 
2012 Sep 24.

Factor structure of the Halstead-Reitan Neuropsychological Battery for children: 
a brief report supplement.

Ross SA(1), Allen DN, Goldstein G.

Author information:
(1)a Department of Psychology , University of Nevada , Las Vegas , Nevada.

The Halstead-Reitan Neuropsychological Battery (HRNB) is the first 
factor-analyzed neuropsychological battery and consists of three batteries for 
young children, older children, and adults. Halstead's original factor analysis 
extracted four factors from the adult version of the battery, which were the 
basis for his theory of biological intelligence. These factors were called 
Central Integrative Field, Abstraction, Power, and Directional. Since this 
original analysis, Reitan's additions to the battery, and the development of the 
child versions of the test, this factor-analytic research continued. An 
introduction and the adult literature are reviewed in Ross, Allen, and Goldstein 
( in press ). In this supplemental article, factor-analytic studies of the HRNB 
with children are reviewed. It is concluded that factor analysis of the HRNB or 
Reitan-Indiana Neuropsychological Battery with children does not replicate the 
extensiveness of the adult literature, although there is some evidence that when 
the traditional battery for older children is used, the factor structure is 
similar to what is found in adult studies. Reitan's changes to the battery 
appear to have added factors including language and sensory-perceptual factors. 
When other tests and scoring methods are used in addition to the core battery, 
differing solutions are produced.

DOI: 10.1080/21622965.2012.695882
PMID: 24236936 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


205. Appl Neuropsychol Child. 2014;3(1):31-7. doi: 10.1080/21622965.2012.686339. Epub 
2012 May 17.

The influence of effort on neuropsychological performance in children: is 
performance on the TOMM indicative of neuropsychological ability?

Perna R(1), Loughan AR.

Author information:
(1)a Behavioral Medicine Department , Walton Rehabilitation Hospital , Augusta , 
Georgia.

The Test of Memory Malingering (TOMM) is a measure of effort that has 
traditionally been utilized with adults but is being increasingly used with 
children, though it is not yet entirely clear what suboptimal TOMM performance 
means in terms of neuropsychological test scores. The purpose of this study was 
to investigate whether performance on the TOMM can be used as a predictive 
marker for neuropsychological performance in children. Participants (N = 75) 
completed the TOMM, Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children-Fourth Edition, 
Wisconsin Card-Sorting Test (WCST), Children's Memory Test, and Delis-Kaplan 
Executive Function System Trails. Results revealed significant correlations 
between age, education level, IQ, and many of the neuropsychological measures 
administered, indicating that as children's TOMM scores increase, so do their 
cognitive performances. Children were subsequently divided into two groups: 
optimal effort and suboptimal effort, based on their TOMM Trial 2 scores. 
Results suggest significant differences in IQ performance and WCST Failure to 
Maintain Set; however, there were no differences in regard to any other 
neuropsychological measures administered. It was also found that a larger 
proportion of the younger children (aged 6 to 10 years old) scored below the 
TOMM cutoff compared with older children. This study illustrates that although 
correlations exist, suboptimal effort on the TOMM may not predict poorer 
performance on a neuropsychological evaluation in children as has been reported 
in other studies.

DOI: 10.1080/21622965.2012.686339
PMID: 24236939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


206. Appl Neuropsychol Child. 2014;3(1):45-51. doi: 10.1080/21622965.2012.691067. 
Epub 2012 Jun 6.

The value of embedded measures in detecting suboptimal effort in children: an 
investigation into the WISC-IV Digit Span and CMS Verbal Memory subtests.

Perna R(1), Loughan AR, Hertza J, Segraves K.

Author information:
(1)a Behavioral Medicine Department , Walton Rehabilitation Hospital , Augusta , 
Georgia.

The Test of Memory Malingering (TOMM) is a measure of test-taking effort that 
has traditionally been utilized with adults but more recently has demonstrated 
utility with children. The purpose of this study was to investigate whether 
commonly used neuropsychological measures can be used as embedded measures in 
detecting effort during testing. Participants (N = 75) who completed 
neuropsychological evaluations including the TOMM, Wechsler Intelligence Scale 
for Children-Fourth Edition (WISC-IV) Digit Span, Children's Memory Scale (CMS) 
Verbal Memory, and other neuropsychological measures were divided into two 
groups: Optimal Effort and Suboptimal Effort, based on their TOMM Trial 2 
scores. Digit Span findings suggest a useful standard score of ≤ 70 resulted in 
optimal cutoff scores, yielding specificity of 94% and sensitivity of 44%. The 
CMS Verbal Memory Recall > Recognition scores did not appear as valuable 
indicating a discrepancy of 20+ points were required for specificity to attain 
optimal scores of 90% and sensitivity of 11%. This study illustrates the WISC-IV 
may have good utility in determining optimal effort; however, the CMS may not be 
as functional.

DOI: 10.1080/21622965.2012.691067
PMID: 24236941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. Appl Ergon. 2014 Sep;45(5):1343-52. doi: 10.1016/j.apergo.2013.08.011. Epub 2013 
Nov 12.

Coding warnings without interfering with dismounted soldiers' missions.

Oron-Gilad T(1), Hancock PA(2), Helmick-Rich J(2).

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Industrial Engineering and Management, Ben-Gurion University of the 
Negev, P.O. Box 653, Beer-Sheva 84105, Israel. Electronic address: 
orontal@bgu.ac.il.
(2)Department of Psychology, University of Central Florida, USA.

OBJECTIVES: Warnings are an effective way to communicate hazard, yet they can 
also increase task demand when presented to operators involved in real-world 
tasks. Furthermore, in military-related tasks warnings are often given in codes 
to avoid counter-intelligence, which may foster additional working memory load.
BACKGROUND: Adherence to warnings in the military domain is crucial to promote 
safety and reduce accidents and injuries. The empirical question arises as to 
how aspects of coding the warning may interfere with the primary task the 
individual is currently performing and vice versa.
METHOD: Six experimental conditions were designed to assess how warning-code 
storage format, response format, and increasing working memory demand 
(retention) affected both performance on the primary task and the rate of 
compliance to warnings, considered here as the secondary task.
RESULTS: Results revealed that the combination of warning-code storage and 
response format affected compliance rate and the highest compliance occurred 
when warnings were presented as pictorials and responses were coded verbally. 
Contrary to the proposed hypotheses, warning storage format did not affect 
performance on the primary task, which was only affected by the level of working 
memory demand. Thus, the intra-modal warning storages did not interfere with the 
visual/spatial nature of the primary operational task. However, increase in 
working memory demand, by increasing the number of memorized warning codes, had 
an effect on both compliance rate and primary task performance.
CONCLUSIONS: Rather than warning code storage alone, it is the coupling of 
warning storage and response format that has the most significant effect on 
compliance.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd and The Ergonomics Society. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.apergo.2013.08.011
PMID: 24238638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


208. J Pediatr. 2014 Feb;164(2):398-401. doi: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2013.10.001. Epub 2013 
Nov 14.

Impaired cognitive functioning in patients with tyrosinemia type I receiving 
nitisinone.

Bendadi F(1), de Koning TJ(1), Visser G(1), Prinsen HC(2), de Sain MG(2), 
Verhoeven-Duif N(2), Sinnema G(3), van Spronsen FJ(4), van Hasselt PM(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Metabolic Diseases, University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, 
The Netherlands.
(2)Department of Medical Genetics, Section Metabolic Diagnostics, University 
Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Pediatric Psychology, University Medical Center Utrecht, 
Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(4)Division of Metabolic Diseases, Beatrix Children's Hospital, University 
Medical Center of Groningen, University of Groningen, Groningen, The 
Netherlands.
(5)Department of Metabolic Diseases, University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, 
The Netherlands. Electronic address: p.vanhasselt@umcutrecht.nl.

OBJECTIVE: To examine cognitive functioning in patients with tyrosinemia type I 
treated with nitisinone and a protein-restricted diet.
STUDY DESIGN: We performed a cross-sectional study to establish cognitive 
functioning in children with tyrosinemia type I compared with their unaffected 
siblings. Intelligence was measured using age-appropriate Wechsler Scales. To 
assess cognitive development over time, we retrieved sequential IQ scores in a 
single-center subset of patients. We also evaluated whether plasma phenylalanine 
and tyrosine levels during treatment was correlated with cognitive development.
RESULTS: Average total IQ score in 10 patients with tyrosinemia type I receiving 
nitisinone was significantly lower compared with their unaffected siblings (71 ± 
13 vs 91 ± 13; P = .008). Both verbal and performance IQ subscores differed (77 
± 14 vs 95 ± 11; P < .05 and 70 ± 11 vs 87 ± 15; P < .05, respectively). 
Repeated IQ measurements in a single-center subset of 5 patients revealed a 
decline in average IQ score over time, from 96 ± 15 to 69 ± 11 (P < .001). No 
significant association was found between IQ score and either plasma tyrosine or 
phenylalanine concentration.
CONCLUSION: Patients with tyrosinemia type I treated with nitisinone are at risk 
for impaired cognitive function despite a protein-restricted diet.

Copyright © 2014 Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2013.10.001
PMID: 24238861 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209. Phytochemistry. 2014 Jan;97:62-9. doi: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2013.10.010. Epub 
2013 Nov 14.

Classification of stilbenoid compounds by entropy of artificial intelligence.

Castellano G(1), Lara A(2), Torrens F(3).

Author information:
(1)Universidad Católica de Valencia San Vicente Mártir, Guillem de Castro-94, 
E-46001 Valencia, Spain. Electronic address: gloria.castellano@ucv.es.
(2)Universidad Católica de Valencia San Vicente Mártir, Guillem de Castro-94, 
E-46001 Valencia, Spain.
(3)Institut Universitari de Ciéncia Molecular, Universitat de València, Edifici 
d'Instituts de Paterna, P.O. Box 22085, E-46071 València, Spain.

A set of 66 stilbenoid compounds is classified into a system of periodic 
properties by using a procedure based on artificial intelligence, information 
entropy theory. Eight characteristics in hierarchical order are used to classify 
structurally the stilbenoids. The former five features mark the group or column 
while the latter three are used to indicate the row or period in the table of 
periodic classification. Those stilbenoids in the same group are suggested to 
present similar properties. Furthermore, compounds also in the same period will 
show maximum resemblance. In this report, the stilbenoids in the table are 
related to experimental data of bioactivity and antioxidant properties available 
in the technical literature. It should be noted that stilbenoids with glycoxyl 
groups esterified with benzoic acid derivatives, in the group g11000 in the 
extreme right of the periodic table, show the greatest antioxidant activity as 
confirmed by experiments in the bibliography. Moreover, the second group from 
the right (g10111) contains E-piceatannol, which antioxidant activity is 
recognized in the literature. The experiments confirm our results of the 
periodic classification.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2013.10.010
PMID: 24239224 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. Neural Netw. 2014 Feb;50:12-32. doi: 10.1016/j.neunet.2013.10.005. Epub 2013 Nov 
5.

Hybrid fault diagnosis of nonlinear systems using neural parameter estimators.

Sobhani-Tehrani E(1), Talebi HA(2), Khorasani K(3).

Author information:
(1)Globvision, Inc, Canada.
(2)Department of Electrical Engineering, Amirkabir University of Technology, 
Tehran, Iran.
(3)Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering, Concordia University, 
Montreal, Quebec, H3G 1M8, Canada. Electronic address: kash@ece.concordia.ca.

This paper presents a novel integrated hybrid approach for fault diagnosis (FD) 
of nonlinear systems taking advantage of both the system's mathematical model 
and the adaptive nonlinear approximation capability of computational 
intelligence techniques. Unlike most FD techniques, the proposed solution 
simultaneously accomplishes fault detection, isolation, and identification 
(FDII) within a unified diagnostic module. At the core of this solution is a 
bank of adaptive neural parameter estimators (NPEs) associated with a set of 
single-parameter fault models. The NPEs continuously estimate unknown fault 
parameters (FPs) that are indicators of faults in the system. Two NPE 
structures, series-parallel and parallel, are developed with their exclusive set 
of desirable attributes. The parallel scheme is extremely robust to measurement 
noise and possesses a simpler, yet more solid, fault isolation logic. In 
contrast, the series-parallel scheme displays short FD delays and is robust to 
closed-loop system transients due to changes in control commands. Finally, a 
fault tolerant observer (FTO) is designed to extend the capability of the two 
NPEs that originally assumes full state measurements for systems that have only 
partial state measurements. The proposed FTO is a neural state estimator that 
can estimate unmeasured states even in the presence of faults. The estimated and 
the measured states then comprise the inputs to the two proposed FDII schemes. 
Simulation results for FDII of reaction wheels of a three-axis stabilized 
satellite in the presence of disturbances and noise demonstrate the 
effectiveness of the proposed FDII solutions under partial state measurements.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neunet.2013.10.005
PMID: 24239987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


211. J Urban Health. 2014 Feb;91(1):186-210. doi: 10.1007/s11524-013-9841-8.

Assessing gaps and poverty-related inequalities in the public and private sector 
family planning supply environment of urban Nigeria.

Levy JK(1), Curtis S, Zimmer C, Speizer IS.

Author information:
(1)University of North Carolina Gillings School of Global Public Health, Chapel 
Hill, NC, USA, jessicaklevy@gmail.com.

Nigeria is the most populous country in Africa, and its population is expected 
to double in <25 years (Central Intelligence Agency 2012; Fotso et al. 2011). 
Over half of the population already lives in an urban area, and by 2050, that 
proportion will increase to three quarters (United Nations, Department of 
Economic and Social Affairs, Population Division 2012; Measurement Learning & 
Evaluation Project, Nigerian Urban Reproductive Health Initiative, National 
Population Commission 2012). Reducing unwanted and unplanned pregnancies through 
reliable access to high-quality modern contraceptives, especially among the 
urban poor, could make a major contribution to moderating population growth and 
improving the livelihood of urban residents. This study uses facility census 
data to create and assign aggregate-level family planning (FP) supply index 
scores to 19 local government areas (LGAs) across six selected cities of 
Nigeria. It then explores the relationships between public and private sector FP 
services and determines whether contraceptive access and availability in either 
sector is correlated with community-level wealth. Data show pronounced 
variability in contraceptive access and availability across LGAs in both 
sectors, with a positive correlation between public sector and private sector 
supply environments and only localized associations between the FP supply 
environments and poverty. These results will be useful for program planners and 
policy makers to improve equal access to contraception through the expansion or 
redistribution of services in focused urban areas.

DOI: 10.1007/s11524-013-9841-8
PMCID: PMC3907627
PMID: 24248622 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


212. Environ Health Prev Med. 2014 Mar;19(2):151-8. doi: 10.1007/s12199-013-0369-z. 
Epub 2013 Nov 20.

Arsenic contamination in groundwater and its effects on adolescent intelligence 
and social competence in Bangladesh with special reference to daily 
drinking/cooking water intake.

Nahar MN(1), Inaoka T, Fujimura M, Watanabe C, Shimizu H, Tasmin S, Sultana N.

Author information:
(1)The United Graduate School of Agricultural Sciences, Kagoshima University 
Allied to Faculty of Agriculture, Saga University, 1 Honjo-machi, Saga, Saga, 
840-8502, Japan, shapla.ru@gmail.com.

Erratum in
    Environ Health Prev Med. 2014 Mar;19(2):159. Tasnim, Sayra [corrected to 
Tasmin, Saira].

OBJECTIVE: The present study aims to investigate the relationship between 
arsenic (As) exposure and intelligence quotient (IQ) or social competence (SC) 
of Bangladeshi adolescents (aged 14 or 15 years) in Sonargaon thana.
METHODS: Information about socioeconomic status (SES) was collected as 
confounding factors. To evaluate the relative contribution of As sources to 
total As intake, the As concentrations in urine and drinking/cooking water, and 
the amount of water added in cooking, were assessed on site using a food 
frequency questionnaire (FFQ).
RESULTS: The results confirmed that As exposure was essential to lower 
adolescent IQ or SC because they were negatively associated with As exposure 
after controlling for SES (particularly household income). Except for cooking 
water, the amount of drinking water varied with season and appeared to be the 
major As source because the As concentration in water was generally correlated 
with the As concentration in urine, and they were related to lower IQ or SC 
(even after controlling for SES). The FFQ survey revealed that rice was consumed 
the most frequently (more than once daily), followed by daal (bean) soup and 
nonleafy vegetables, but fish, meat, and eggs were consumed approximately once a 
week. Water intake per meal from cooked rice was estimated to be 616 mL/person, 
followed by bean soup (258 mL/person) and cooked vegetables (82 mL/person).
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that water used for cooking might be an 
important source of As, and the cooking process can affect the amount of As in 
cooked food.

DOI: 10.1007/s12199-013-0369-z
PMCID: PMC3944040
PMID: 24254803 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. Compr Psychiatry. 2014 Feb;55(2):290-7. doi: 10.1016/j.comppsych.2013.09.010. 
Epub 2013 Oct 22.

Autobiographical memory and its association with neuropsychological function in 
bipolar disorder.

Kim WJ(1), Ha RY(1), Sun JY(1), Ryu V(2), Lee SJ(3), Ha K(4), Cho HS(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, College of Medicine, Yonsei University, Seoul, 
South Korea.
(2)Institute of Behavioral Science in Medicine, College of Medicine, Yonsei 
University, Seoul, South Korea; Department of Psychiatry, College of Medicine, 
Konyang University, Daejeon, South Korea.
(3)Institute of Behavioral Science in Medicine, College of Medicine, Yonsei 
University, Seoul, South Korea.
(4)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Seoul National University Bundang Hospital, 
Gyeonggi-do, South Korea.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, College of Medicine, Yonsei University, Seoul, 
South Korea; Institute of Behavioral Science in Medicine, College of Medicine, 
Yonsei University, Seoul, South Korea. Electronic address: chs0225@yuhs.ac.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to investigate the overgeneralization of 
autobiographical memory (AM) in bipolar disorder (BD) and assess its association 
with multiple cognitive domains.
METHOD: Twenty-eight clinically stable bipolar I patients and an equal number of 
age- and gender-matched healthy controls (HC) were included. All participants 
were examined using the autobiographical memory test (AMT) and the 
neuropsychological battery including the general intelligence, attention, verbal 
memory, verbal fluency, visual memory, and executive functions domain. 
Demographic, clinical, and test variables were compared between BD and HC 
groups. Correlation analyses of AMT scores with cognitive functions were 
performed within each group, controlling for demographic and clinical variables.
RESULTS: Total and negative scores of AMT were significantly lower in BD 
patients compared to HC individuals. AMT scores were significantly correlated 
with WAIS similarities, WCST perseverative errors, and WCST categories completed 
in BD, whereas AMT scores were correlated with verbal memory and verbal fluency 
in HC.
CONCLUSION: Our findings suggest that overgeneral AM is a characteristic of BD 
and is related to executive function. Future studies should investigate the 
benefit of additional treatment focusing on overgeneral AM in BD.

© 2014.

DOI: 10.1016/j.comppsych.2013.09.010
PMID: 24262122 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


214. Child Neuropsychol. 2014;20(6):692-9. doi: 10.1080/09297049.2013.856395. Epub 
2013 Nov 25.

Performance on the dimensional change card sort and backward digit span by young 
children with autism without intellectual disability.

Faja S(1), Dawson G.

Author information:
(1)a Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences , University of Washington 
, Seattle , WA , USA.

The early development of executive function (EF) and its relation to autism 
symptom expression is of considerable theoretical interest, particularly in 
children without general cognitive delay. Executive function was tested in 23 
children with autism spectrum disorders (ASD) without intellectual disability 
and 20 age- and IQ-matched typically developing children. Even though 
performance was equivalent between the two groups on tests of general 
intelligence, flexibility in card sorting was lower for children with ASD. 
Verbal working memory during the backward digit span did not differ between 
groups. Among children with ASD, poorer performance on card sorting 
distinguished a subgroup with worse social-communication functioning above and 
beyond IQ. Controlling for IQ social and repetitive symptoms of ASD did not 
differ based on card sorting ability.

DOI: 10.1080/09297049.2013.856395
PMCID: PMC4032814
PMID: 24266398 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


215. Neuropsychologia. 2014 Jan;53:54-63. doi: 
10.1016/j.neuropsychologia.2013.11.002. Epub 2013 Nov 21.

Association of basal forebrain volumes and cognition in normal aging.

Wolf D(1), Grothe M(2), Fischer FU(3), Heinsen H(4), Kilimann I(5), Teipel S(5), 
Fellgiebel A(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University Medical Center Mainz, 
55131 Mainz, Germany. Electronic address: dominik.wolf@unimedizin-mainz.de.
(2)DZNE, German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, 18147 Rostock, Germany.
(3)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University Medical Center Mainz, 
55131 Mainz, Germany.
(4)Morphological Brain Research Unit, Department of Psychiatry, University of 
Würzburg, 97080 Würzburg, Germany.
(5)DZNE, German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, 18147 Rostock, Germany; 
Department of Psychosomatic Medicine, University of Rostock, 18147 Rostock, 
Germany.

The basal forebrain cholinergic system (BFCS) is known to undergo moderate 
neurodegenerative alterations during normal aging and severe atrophy in 
Alzheimer's disease (AD). It has been suggested that functional and structural 
alterations of the BFCS mediate cognitive performance in normal aging and AD. 
But, it is still unclear to what extend age-associated cognitive decline can be 
related to BFCS in normal aging. We analyzed the relationship between BFCS 
volume and cognition using MRI and a comprehensive neuropsychological test 
battery in a cohort of 43 healthy elderly subjects spanning the age range from 
60 to 85 years. Most notably, we found significant associations between general 
intelligence and BFCS volumes, specifically within areas corresponding to 
posterior nuclei of the nucleus basalis of Meynert (Ch4p) and the nucleus 
subputaminalis (NSP). Associations between specific cognitive domains and BFCS 
volumes were less pronounced. Supplementary analyses demonstrated that 
especially the volume of NSP but also the volume of Ch4p was related to the 
volume of widespread temporal, frontal, and parietal gray and white matter 
regions. Volumes of these gray and white matter regions were also related to 
general intelligence. Higher volumes of Ch4p and NSP may enhance the 
effectiveness of acetylcholine supply in related gray and white matter regions 
underlying general intelligence and hence explain the observed association 
between the volume of Ch4p as well as NSP and general intelligence. Since 
general intelligence is known to attenuate the degree of age-associated 
cognitive decline and the risk of developing late-onset AD, the BFCS might, 
besides the specific contribution to the pathophysiology in AD, constitute a 
mechanism of brain resilience in normal aging.

© 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuropsychologia.2013.11.002
PMID: 24269297 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


216. Neuropsychologia. 2014 Jan;53:137-45. doi: 
10.1016/j.neuropsychologia.2013.11.008. Epub 2013 Nov 21.

Longitudinal processing speed impairments in males with autism and the effects 
of white matter microstructure.

Travers BG(1), Bigler ED(2), Tromp do PM(3), Adluru N(3), Froehlich AL(4), Ennis 
C(3), Lange N(5), Nielsen JA(6), Prigge MB(4), Alexander AL(7), Lainhart JE(3).

Author information:
(1)Waisman Laboratory for Brain Imaging and Behavior, University of 
Wisconsin-Madison, 1500 Highland Avenue, Madison, WI 53705, USA. Electronic 
address: btravers@wisc.edu.
(2)Department of Psychology and Neuroscience Center, Brigham Young University, 
Provo, UT 84602, USA; The Brain Institute of Utah, University of Utah, 36 South 
Wasatch Drive, Salt Lake City, UT 84112, USA; Department of Psychiatry, 
University of Utah, 501 Chipeta Way, Salt Lake City, UT 84108, USA.
(3)Waisman Laboratory for Brain Imaging and Behavior, University of 
Wisconsin-Madison, 1500 Highland Avenue, Madison, WI 53705, USA.
(4)Department of Radiology, University of Utah, 30 North 1900 East #1A071, Salt 
Lake City, UT, USA.
(5)Departments of Psychiatry and Biostatistics, Harvard University, 677 
Huntington Avenue, Boston, MA 02115, USA; Neurostatistics Laboratory, McLean 
Hospital, 115 Mill Street, Belmont, MA 02478, USA.
(6)Interdepartmental Program in Neuroscience, University of Utah, 401 MREB, 20 
North 1900 East, Salt Lake City, UT 84132, USA.
(7)Waisman Laboratory for Brain Imaging and Behavior, University of 
Wisconsin-Madison, 1500 Highland Avenue, Madison, WI 53705, USA; Department of 
Psychiatry, University of Wisconsin-Madison, 6001 Research Park Blvd., Madison, 
WI 53719, USA; Department of Medical Physics, University of Wisconsin-Madison, 
1111 Highland Avenue, Room 1005 Madison, WI 53705, USA.

The present study used an accelerated longitudinal design to examine group 
differences and age-related changes in processing speed in 81 individuals with 
autism spectrum disorder (ASD) compared to 56 age-matched individuals with 
typical development (ages 6-39 years). Processing speed was assessed using the 
Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children-3rd edition (WISC-III) and the Wechsler 
Adult Intelligence Scale-3rd edition (WAIS-III). Follow-up analyses examined 
processing speed subtest performance and relations between processing speed and 
white matter microstructure (as measured with diffusion tensor imaging [DTI] in 
a subset of these participants). After controlling for full scale IQ, the 
present results show that processing speed index standard scores were on average 
12 points lower in the group with ASD compared to the group with typical 
development. There were, however, no significant group differences in standard 
score age-related changes within this age range. For subtest raw scores, the 
group with ASD demonstrated robustly slower processing speeds in the adult 
versions of the IQ test (i.e., WAIS-III) but not in the child versions 
(WISC-III), even though age-related changes were similar in both the ASD and 
typically developing groups. This pattern of results may reflect difficulties 
that become increasingly evident in ASD on more complex measures of processing 
speed. Finally, DTI measures of whole-brain white matter microstructure 
suggested that fractional anisotropy (but not mean diffusivity, radial 
diffusivity, or axial diffusivity) made significant but small-sized 
contributions to processing speed standard scores across our entire sample. 
Taken together, the present findings suggest that robust decreases in processing 
speed may be present in ASD, more pronounced in adulthood, and partially 
attributable to white matter microstructural integrity.

© 2013 Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuropsychologia.2013.11.008
PMCID: PMC3946881
PMID: 24269298 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217. Curr Neurol Neurosci Rep. 2014 Jan;14(1):420. doi: 10.1007/s11910-013-0420-x.

The effects of Mozart's music on interictal activity in epileptic patients: 
systematic review and meta-analysis of the literature.

Dastgheib SS(1), Layegh P, Sadeghi R, Foroughipur M, Shoeibi A, Gorji A.

Author information:
(1)Shefa Neuroscience Research Center, Tehran, Iran.

Mozart's music has been shown to have promising effects on nervous system 
functions. In this study, the effects of Mozart's work on epilepsy were 
reviewed. Articles were obtained from a variety of sources. The results of 12 
studies were extracted. Three different meta-analyses were performed to examine 
(i) the percentage of patients who had changes in their interictal epileptic 
discharges (IEDs) by music therapy; and the changes of IEDs (ii) during and 
(iii) after exposure to Mozart's music. Data analysis indicated that 84% of 
patients listening to Mozart's music showed a significant decrease in IEDs. In 
addition, IEDs were decreased during (31.24%) and after (23.74%) listening to 
Mozart's compositions. A noteworthy response to music therapy in patients with a 
higher intelligence quotient, generalized or central discharges, and idiopathic 
epilepsy was demonstrated. The effect of Mozart's music on epilepsy seems to be 
significant. However, more randomized control studies are needed to determine 
its clinical efficacy.

DOI: 10.1007/s11910-013-0420-x
PMID: 24272274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Diagn Cytopathol. 2014 Jul;42(7):582-91. doi: 10.1002/dc.23077. Epub 2013 Nov 
22.

Using classification and regression trees, liquid-based cytology and nuclear 
morphometry for the discrimination of endometrial lesions.

Pouliakis A(1), Margari C, Margari N, Chrelias C, Zygouris D, Meristoudis C, 
Panayiotides I, Karakitsos P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cytopathology, University of Athens, "ATTIKON" University 
Hospital, Athens, Greece.

'The objective of this study is to investigate the potential of classification 
and regression trees (CARTs) in discriminating benign from malignant endometrial 
nuclei and lesions. The study was performed on 222 histologically confirmed 
liquid based cytological smears, specifically: 117 benign cases, 62 malignant 
cases and 43 hyperplasias with or without atypia. About 100 nuclei were measured 
from each case using an image analysis system; in total, we collected 22783 
nuclei. The nuclei from 50% of the cases (the training set) were used to 
construct a CART model that was used for knowledge extraction. The nuclei from 
the remaining 50% of cases (test set) were used to evaluate the stability and 
performance of the CART on unknown data. Based on the results of the CART for 
nuclei classification, we propose two classification methods to discriminate 
benign from malignant cases. The CART model had an overall accuracy for the 
classification of endometrial nuclei equal to 85%, specificity 90.68%, and 
sensitivity 72.05%. Both methods for case classification had similar 
performance: overall accuracy in the range 94-95%, specificity 95%, and 
sensitivity 91-94%. The results of the proposed system outperform the standard 
cytological diagnosis of endometrial lesions. This study highlights interesting 
diagnostic features of endometrial nuclear morphology and provides a new 
classification approach for endometrial nuclei and cases. The proposed method 
can be a useful tool for the everyday practice of the cytological laboratory.

© 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/dc.23077
PMID: 24273089 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Prog Neuropsychopharmacol Biol Psychiatry. 2014 Mar 3;49:63-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.pnpbp.2013.11.009. Epub 2013 Nov 22.

Distinct effects of duration of untreated psychosis on brain cortical activities 
in different treatment phases of schizophrenia: a multi-channel near-infrared 
spectroscopy study.

Chou PH(1), Koike S(2), Nishimura Y(3), Kawasaki S(4), Satomura Y(3), Kinoshita 
A(3), Takizawa R(5), Kasai K(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Graduate School of Medicine, The University of 
Tokyo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, 113-8655, Japan; Department of Psychiatry, Taichung 
Veterans General Hospital, Taichung City, 40705, Taiwan.
(2)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Graduate School of Medicine, The University of 
Tokyo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, 113-8655, Japan; Office for Mental Health Support, 
Division for Counseling and Support, the University of Tokyo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 
113-0033, Japan.
(3)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Graduate School of Medicine, The University of 
Tokyo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, 113-8655, Japan.
(4)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Graduate School of Medicine, The University of 
Tokyo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, 113-8655, Japan; Application Development Office, 
Hitachi Medical Corporation, Kashiwa City, Chiba 277-0804, Japan.
(5)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Graduate School of Medicine, The University of 
Tokyo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, 113-8655, Japan; Social, Genetic and Developmental 
Psychiatry Centre, Institute of Psychiatry, King's College London, London, UK.
(6)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Graduate School of Medicine, The University of 
Tokyo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, 113-8655, Japan. Electronic address: 
kasaik-tky@umin.net.

BACKGROUND: Duration of untreated psychosis (DUP) has been shown to be 
associated with both poor short-term and long-term outcomes in schizophrenia. 
Even so, few studies have used functional neuroimaging to investigate DUP in 
schizophrenia. In the present study, we used near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) 
to investigate the influence of DUP on brain functions during a verbal fluency 
test (VFT) in patients with schizophrenia.
METHODS: A total of 62 patients with schizophrenia were included. They were 
categorized into either short treatment (≤6months, n=33) or long treatment 
(>6months, n=29) groups based on their duration of treatment. Hemodynamic 
changes over the frontotemporal regions during a VFT were measured using 
multi-channel NIRS. We examined the associations between DUP and hemodynamic 
changes in each group to explore if there were different effects of DUP on brain 
cortical activity at different treatment durations.
RESULTS: In the long treatment group, we found significant associations between 
a longer DUP and decreased cortical activity approximately at the left inferior 
frontal gyrus, left middle frontal gyrus, left postcentral gyrus, right 
precentral gyrus, bilateral superior temporal gyrus, and bilateral middle 
temporal gyrus, whereas no associations between DUP and brain cortical activity 
were observed in the short treatment group.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results indicated that longer DUP may be associated with 
decreased level of cortical activities over the frontotemporal regions in the 
long-term. Early detection and intervention of psychosis that shortens DUP might 
help to improve the long-term outcomes in patients with schizophrenia.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pnpbp.2013.11.009
PMID: 24275075 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


220. Stud Hist Philos Biol Biomed Sci. 2014 Mar;45:68-77. doi: 
10.1016/j.shpsc.2013.10.007. Epub 2013 Nov 22.

Hysteria, race, and phlogiston. A model of ontological elimination in the human 
sciences.

Ludwig D(1).

Author information:
(1)Columbia University, Philosophy Department, 1150 Amsterdam Avenue, 708 
Philosophy Hall, New York, NY 10027, United States. Electronic address: 
davidundludwig@gmail.com.

Elimination controversies are ubiquitous in philosophy and the human sciences. 
For example, it has been suggested that human races, hysteria, intelligence, 
mental disorder, propositional attitudes such as beliefs and desires, the self, 
and the super-ego should be eliminated from the list of respectable entities in 
the human sciences. I argue that eliminativist proposals are often presented in 
the framework of an oversimplified "phlogiston model" and suggest an alternative 
account that describes ontological elimination on a gradual scale between 
criticism of empirical assumptions and conceptual choices.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.shpsc.2013.10.007
PMID: 24275680 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. Arch Clin Neuropsychol. 2014 Feb;29(1):75-85. doi: 10.1093/arclin/act086. Epub 
2013 Nov 25.

A cluster analytic study of the Wechsler Intelligence Test for Children-IV in 
children referred for psychoeducational assessment due to persistent academic 
difficulties.

Hale CR(1), Casey JE, Ricciardi PW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Windsor, Windsor, Ontario, Canada.

Wechsler Intelligence Test for Children-IV core subtest scores of 472 children 
were cluster analyzed to determine if reliable and valid subgroups would emerge. 
Three subgroups were identified. Clusters were reliable across different stages 
of the analysis as well as across algorithms and samples. With respect to 
external validity, the Globally Low cluster differed from the other two clusters 
on Wechsler Individual Achievement Test-II Word Reading, Numerical Operations, 
and Spelling subtests, whereas the latter two clusters did not differ from one 
another. The clusters derived have been identified in studies using previous 
WISC editions. Clusters characterized by poor performance on subtests 
historically associated with the VIQ (i.e., VCI + WMI) and PIQ (i.e., POI + PSI) 
did not emerge, nor did a cluster characterized by low scores on PRI subtests. 
Picture Concepts represented the highest subtest score in every cluster, failing 
to vary in a predictable manner with the other PRI subtests.

DOI: 10.1093/arclin/act086
PMID: 24280694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. Psychol Med. 2014 Jul;44(10):2177-87. doi: 10.1017/S0033291713002663. Epub 2013 
Nov 28.

The one and the many: effects of the cell adhesion molecule pathway on 
neuropsychological function in psychosis.

Hargreaves A(1), Anney R(1), O'Dushlaine C(1), Nicodemus KK(1); Schizophrenia 
Psychiatric Genome-Wide Association Study Consortium (PGC-SCZ); Wellcome Trust 
Case Control Consortium 2; Gill M(1), Corvin A(1), Morris D(1), Donohoe G(1).

Author information:
(1)Neuropsychiatric Genetics Research Group, Department of Psychiatry, Institute 
of Molecular Medicine and Trinity College Institute of Neuroscience,Trinity 
College Dublin,Republic of Ireland.

BACKGROUND: Genetic studies of single gene variants have been criticized as 
providing a simplistic characterization of the genetic basis of illness risk 
that ignores the effects of other variants within the same biological pathways. 
Of candidate biological pathways for schizophrenia (SZ), the cell adhesion 
molecule (CAM) pathway has repeatedly been linked to both psychosis and 
neurocognitive dysfunction. Here we tested, using risk allele scores derived 
from the Schizophrenia Psychiatric Genome-Wide Association Study Consortium 
(PGC-SCZ), whether alleles within the CAM pathway were correlated with poorer 
neuropsychological function in patients.
METHOD: In total, 424 patients with psychosis were assessed in areas of 
cognitive ability typically found to be impaired in SZ: intelligence quotient, 
memory, working memory and attentional control. CAM pathway genes were 
identified using the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) database. 
Alleles within these genes identified as significantly associated with SZ risk 
in the PGC-SCZ were then used to calculate a CAM pathway-based polygenic risk 
allele score for each patient and these scores were tested for association with 
cognitive ability.
RESULTS: Increased CAM pathway polygenic risk scores were significantly 
associated with poorer performance on measures of memory and attention, 
explaining 1-3% of variation on these measures. Notably, the most strongly 
associated single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in the CAM pathway (rs9272105 
within HLA-DQA1) explained a similar amount of variance in attentional control, 
but not memory, as the polygenic risk analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: These data support a role for the CAM pathway in cognitive 
function, both at the level of individual SNPs and the wider pathway. In so 
doing these data highlight the value of pathway-based polygenic risk score 
studies as well as single gene studies for understanding SZ-associated deficits 
in cognition.

DOI: 10.1017/S0033291713002663
PMCID: PMC7050679
PMID: 24284030 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


223. NeuroRehabilitation. 2014;34(1):29-37. doi: 10.3233/NRE-131007.

Expressive writing in people with traumatic brain injury and learning 
disability.

Wheeler L(1), Nickerson S(1), Long K(1), Silver R(2).

Author information:
(1)Towson University, Towson, MD, USA.
(2)Syracuse University, Syracuse, NY, USA.

BACKGROUND: There is a dearth of systematic studies of expressive writing 
disorder (EWD) in persons with Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI). It is unclear if 
TBI survivors' written expression differs significantly from that experienced by 
persons with learning disabilities. It is also unclear which cognitive or 
neuropsychological variables predict problems with expressive writing (EW) or 
the EWD.
OBJECTIVE: This study investigated the EW skill, and the EWD in adults with mild 
traumatic brain injuries (TBI) relative to those with learning disabilities 
(LD). It also determined which of several cognitive variables predicted EW and 
EWD.
METHODS: Principle Component Analysis (PCA) of writing samples from 28 LD 
participants and 28 TBI survivors revealed four components of expressive writing 
skills: Reading Ease, Sentence Fluency, Grammar and Spelling, and Paragraph 
Fluency.
RESULTS: There were no significant differences between the LD and TBI groups on 
any of the expressive writing components. Several neuropsychological variables 
predicted skills of written expression. The best predictors included measures of 
spatial perception, verbal IQ, working memory, and visual memory.
CONCLUSIONS: TBI survivors and persons with LD do not differ markedly in terms 
of expressive writing skill. Measures of spatial perception, visual memory, 
verbal intelligence, and working memory predict writing skill in both groups. 
Several therapeutic interventions are suggested that are specifically designed 
to improve deficits in expressive writing skills in individuals with TBI and LD.

DOI: 10.3233/NRE-131007
PMID: 24284454 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


224. NeuroRehabilitation. 2014;34(1):45-53. doi: 10.3233/NRE-131009.

Deficit awareness and cognitive performance in individuals with acquired brain 
injury.

Long K(1), Rager B(1), Adams G(2).

Author information:
(1)Practical Memory Institute, USA.
(2)ILearn Systems Inc., USA.

BACKGROUND: Anosognosia is commonly reported after acquired brain injury (ABI) 
or stroke and often hinders an ABI survivor's ability to perceive the social 
consequences of their behavior and to modify it.
OBJECTIVE: This study concerned the question of whether awareness discrepancy 
scores could predict cognitive performance with a focus on the acquired brain 
injured (ABI) population. It was hypothesized that lack of awareness would 
predict performance on cognitive tasks.
METHOD: Archival data was assessed for a total of 21 patients; 10 learning 
disabled (LD) and 11 with a brain injury with each person having one "observer". 
Data consisted of patient and observer ratings on the Acquired Deficit Awareness 
Management System (ADAMS) profile, a 36-item survey that measured both patient 
self-report and observer assessment of awareness. These data yielded two 
discrepancy scores: deficit with awareness (DWA) and deficit without awareness 
(DWoA). The discrepancy scores were used to predict IQ scores from the Wechsler 
Adult Intelligence Scale, academic performance on the Woodcock-Johnson 
Psychoeducational Battery, memory functioning on the Wechsler Memory Scale, and 
a measure of fine motor skill.
RESULTS: The DWoA measure correlated significantly with several cognitive 
variables and with finger tapping speed on the non-dominant hand. These 
correlations were not apparent in the LD group.
CONCLUSIONS: Measures of lack of awareness predicted cognitive performance in 
the ABI population. Therapeutic interventions are discussed that address lack of 
awareness after ABI.

DOI: 10.3233/NRE-131009
PMID: 24284456 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


225. Hum Mov Sci. 2014 Feb;33:284-97. doi: 10.1016/j.humov.2013.08.011. Epub 2013 Nov 
28.

The relation between cognitive and motor performance and their relevance for 
children's transition to school: a latent variable approach.

Roebers CM(1), Röthlisberger M(2), Neuenschwander R(2), Cimeli P(2), Michel 
E(2), Jäger K(2).

Author information:
(1)Center for Cognition, Learning, and Memory, University of Bern, Switzerland. 
Electronic address: roebers@psy.unibe.ch.
(2)Center for Cognition, Learning, and Memory, University of Bern, Switzerland.

Both theoretically and empirically there is a continuous interest in 
understanding the specific relation between cognitive and motor development in 
childhood. In the present longitudinal study including three measurement points, 
this relation was targeted. At the beginning of the study, the participating 
children were 5-6-year-olds. By assessing participants' fine motor skills, their 
executive functioning, and their non-verbal intelligence, their cross-sectional 
and cross-lagged interrelations were examined. Additionally, performance in 
these three areas was used to predict early school achievement (in terms of 
mathematics, reading, and spelling) at the end of participants' first grade. 
Correlational analyses and structural equation modeling revealed that fine motor 
skills, non-verbal intelligence and executive functioning were significantly 
interrelated. Both fine motor skills and intelligence had significant links to 
later school achievement. However, when executive functioning was additionally 
included into the prediction of early academic achievement, fine motor skills 
and non-verbal intelligence were no longer significantly associated with later 
school performance suggesting that executive functioning plays an important role 
for the motor-cognitive performance link.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.humov.2013.08.011
PMID: 24289983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


226. Gene. 2014 Feb 15;536(1):145-50. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2013.11.029. Epub 2013 Nov 
27.

Array CGH analysis of a cohort of Russian patients with intellectual disability.

Kashevarova AA(1), Nazarenko LP(2), Skryabin NA(2), Salyukova OA(2), Chechetkina 
NN(2), Tolmacheva EN(2), Sazhenova EA(2), Magini P(3), Graziano C(3), Romeo 
G(3), Kučinskas V(4), Lebedev IN(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Medical Genetics, Tomsk, Russia. Electronic address: 
anna.kashevarova@medgenetics.ru.
(2)Institute of Medical Genetics, Tomsk, Russia.
(3)University of Bologna, Bologna, Italy.
(4)Vilnius University, Department of Human and Medical Genetics, Vilnius, 
Lithuania.

The use of array comparative genomic hybridization (array CGH) as a diagnostic 
tool in molecular genetics has facilitated the identification of many new 
microdeletion/microduplication syndromes (MMSs). Furthermore, this method has 
allowed for the identification of copy number variations (CNVs) whose pathogenic 
role has yet to be uncovered. Here, we report on our application of array CGH 
for the identification of pathogenic CNVs in 79 Russian children with 
intellectual disability (ID). Twenty-six pathogenic or likely pathogenic changes 
in copy number were detected in 22 patients (28%): 8 CNVs corresponded to known 
MMSs, and 17 were not associated with previously described syndromes. In this 
report, we describe our findings and comment on genes potentially associated 
with ID that are located within the CNV regions.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2013.11.029
PMID: 24291026 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


227. Neuroimage. 2014 Mar;88:181-7. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2013.11.035. Epub 2013 
Nov 27.

The SEMA5A gene is associated with hippocampal volume, and their interaction is 
associated with performance on Raven's Progressive Matrices.

Zhu B(1), Chen C(2), Xue G(1), Moyzis RK(3), Dong Q(4), Chen C(5), Li J(5), He 
Q(5), Lei X(5), Wang Y(5), Lin C(5).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Cognitive Neuroscience and Learning & IDG/McGovern 
Institute for Brain Research, Beijing Normal University, Beijing, China; Center 
for Collaboration and Innovation in Brain and Learning Sciences, Beijing Normal 
University, Beijing, China.
(2)Department of Psychology and Social Behavior, University of California, 
Irvine, CA, USA. Electronic address: cschen@uci.edu.
(3)Department of Biological Chemistry and Institute of Genomics and 
Bioinformatics, University of California, Irvine, CA, USA.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Cognitive Neuroscience and Learning & IDG/McGovern 
Institute for Brain Research, Beijing Normal University, Beijing, China; Center 
for Collaboration and Innovation in Brain and Learning Sciences, Beijing Normal 
University, Beijing, China. Electronic address: psydongqi@126.com.
(5)State Key Laboratory of Cognitive Neuroscience and Learning & IDG/McGovern 
Institute for Brain Research, Beijing Normal University, Beijing, China.

The Allen Brain Atlas shows that the semaphorin 5A (SEMA5A) gene, which encodes 
an important protein for neurogenesis and neuronal apoptosis, is predominantly 
expressed in the human hippocampus. Structural and functional neuroimaging 
studies have further shown that the hippocampus plays an important role in the 
performance on Raven's Progressive Matrices (RPM), a measure of reasoning 
ability and general fluid intelligence. Thus far, however, no study has examined 
the relationships between the SEMA5A gene polymorphism, hippocampal volume, and 
RPM performance. The current study collected both structural MRI, genetic, and 
behavioral data in 329 healthy Chinese adults, and examined associations between 
SEMA5A variants, hippocampal volume, and performance on RAPM (the advanced form 
of RPM). After controlling for intracranial volume (ICV), sex, and age, SEMA5A 
genetic polymorphism at the SNP rs42352 had the strongest association with 
hippocampal volume (p=0.00000552 and 0.000103 for right and left hippocampal 
volumes, respectively), with TT homozygotes having higher hippocampal volume 
than the other genotypes. Furthermore, there was a high correlation between 
right hippocampal volume and RAPM performance (r=0.42, p=0.0000509) for SEMA5A 
rs42352 TT homozygotes. This study provides the first evidence for the 
involvement of the SEMA5A gene in hippocampal structure and their interaction on 
RAPM performance. Future studies of the hippocampus-RPM associations should 
consider genetic factors as potential moderators.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2013.11.035
PMID: 24291503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


228. Epilepsy Behav. 2014 Feb;31:15-8. doi: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2013.10.028. Epub 2013 
Nov 26.

Correlation between interictal cerebral glucose hypometabolism and IQ in 
children with epilepsy.

Tang Z(1), Chen Z(2), Zhai Q(3), Hao Y(2), Zhang Y(2), Zeng X(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Guangdong General Hospital, Guangdong Academy of 
Medical Sciences, Guangdong Neuroscience Institute, China; Southern Medical 
University, Guangdong Province, China.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, Guangdong General Hospital, Guangdong Academy of 
Medical Sciences, Guangdong Neuroscience Institute, China.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, Guangdong General Hospital, Guangdong Academy of 
Medical Sciences, Guangdong Neuroscience Institute, China. Electronic address: 
zhaiqiongxiang@sina.com.

The aim of this study was to understand the relationship between IQ and glucose 
metabolism in brain cells in a wide variety of subjects with epilepsy. The study 
participants were 78 children with epilepsy and 15 healthy children for 
comparison. All participants were administered the Chinese Wechsler Intelligence 
Scale for Children (C-WISC). The verbal intelligence quotient (VIQ), performance 
intelligence quotient (PIQ), and full-scale intelligence quotient (FIQ) were 
compared between children with epilepsy and typically developing children. 
Seventy-eight patients underwent interictal positron emission computed 
tomography (PET) using 2-deoxy-2[(18)F]fluoro-d-glucose (FDG) as the tracer for 
evaluating brain glucose metabolism. Verbal intelligence quotient, PIQ, and FIQ 
based on the C-WISC were significantly lower in children with epilepsy than 
those in the healthy comparison group (P<0.001, P=0.001, and P<0.001, 
respectively). The IQ of patients with normal metabolism, unifocal abnormal 
hypometabolism, and multifocal abnormal hypometabolism determined by PET 
differed significantly. The extent of the abnormal hypometabolism was negatively 
correlated with the FIQ (rs=-0.549, P<0.001). In patients with lateralized 
hypometabolism based on PET, the VIQ/PIQ discrepancy scores (|VIQ-PIQ|≥15 
points) differed significantly between the left hemisphere abnormal 
hypometabolism and right hemisphere abnormal hypometabolism subgroups, with 
negative values in the left and positive values in the right subgroups 
(P=0.004). In conclusion, brain metabolic abnormalities are correlated with IQ, 
and performing interictal PET along with C-WISC can better assess the extent of 
severity of cognitive impairment and VIQ/PIQ discrepancy.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2013.10.028
PMID: 24291524 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


229. Brain. 2014 Jan;137(Pt 1):277-87. doi: 10.1093/brain/awt312. Epub 2013 Nov 29.

Neural mechanisms of discourse comprehension: a human lesion study.

Barbey AK(1), Colom R, Grafman J.

Author information:
(1)1 Decision Neuroscience Laboratory, University of Illinois, Urbana, IL, USA.

Discourse comprehension is a hallmark of human social behaviour and refers to 
the act of interpreting a written or spoken message by constructing mental 
representations that integrate incoming language with prior knowledge and 
experience. Here, we report a human lesion study (n = 145) that investigates the 
neural mechanisms underlying discourse comprehension (measured by the Discourse 
Comprehension Test) and systematically examine its relation to a broad range of 
psychological factors, including psychometric intelligence (measured by the 
Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale), emotional intelligence (measured by the 
Mayer, Salovey, Caruso Emotional Intelligence Test), and personality traits 
(measured by the Neuroticism-Extraversion-Openness Personality Inventory). 
Scores obtained from these factors were submitted to voxel-based lesion-symptom 
mapping to elucidate their neural substrates. Stepwise regression analyses 
revealed that working memory and extraversion reliably predict individual 
differences in discourse comprehension: higher working memory scores and lower 
extraversion levels predict better discourse comprehension performance. Lesion 
mapping results indicated that these convergent variables depend on a shared 
network of frontal and parietal regions, including white matter association 
tracts that bind these areas into a coordinated system. The observed findings 
motivate an integrative framework for understanding the neural foundations of 
discourse comprehension, suggesting that core elements of discourse processing 
emerge from a distributed network of brain regions that support specific 
competencies for executive and social function.

DOI: 10.1093/brain/awt312
PMCID: PMC3954106
PMID: 24293267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


230. J Child Neurol. 2014 Oct;29(10):1370-6. doi: 10.1177/0883073813508315. Epub 2013 
Nov 28.

Neuropsychological findings in childhood narcolepsy.

Posar A(1), Pizza F(2), Parmeggiani A(3), Plazzi G(2).

Author information:
(1)IRCCS Institute of Neurological Sciences of Bologna, Italy Department of 
Biomedical and Neuromotor Sciences, University of Bologna, Italy 
annio.posar@unibo.it.
(2)IRCCS Institute of Neurological Sciences of Bologna, Italy Department of 
Biomedical and Neuromotor Sciences, University of Bologna, Italy.
(3)IRCCS Institute of Neurological Sciences of Bologna, Italy Department of 
Medical and Surgical Sciences, University of Bologna, Italy.

Narcolepsy with cataplexy is a severely disabling disorder very often arising in 
childhood. Data on neuropsychological impairment in children are scant. We 
administered standardized neuropsychological tests to 13 children with 
narcolepsy with cataplexy. Overall, our patients displayed multiple patterns of 
cognitive and behavioral dysfunction, and often academic failure (7 cases out of 
13). All children had a normal full intelligence quotient (IQ), but 3 patients 
presented a significantly higher and 2 a significantly lower Verbal IQ compared 
to Performance IQ, respectively. Mean sleep latency was significantly correlated 
(P < .05) to alertness functions. Eight patients displayed behavioral problems: 
emotional symptoms and conduct problems prevailed. Childhood narcolepsy with 
cataplexy represents a risk factor for subtle and heterogeneous cognitive 
impairments potentially resulting in academic failure, despite the normal IQ. 
These children also have a certain psychopathological risk. All this seems to be 
at least partially detached from the direct effects of daytime sleepiness.

© The Author(s) 2013.

DOI: 10.1177/0883073813508315
PMID: 24293310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


231. Int J Law Psychiatry. 2014 May-Jun;37(3):238-44. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijlp.2013.11.018. Epub 2013 Dec 2.

Psychopathy, intelligence, and impulsivity in German violent offenders.

de Tribolet-Hardy F(1), Vohs K(2), Mokros A(2), Habermeyer E(2).

Author information:
(1)Department for Forensic Psychiatry, University Hospital of Psychiatry, 
Zurich, Switzerland. Electronic address: fanny.detribolet@puk.zh.ch.
(2)Department for Forensic Psychiatry, University Hospital of Psychiatry, 
Zurich, Switzerland.

Previous studies have reported numerous correlations between psychopathy and 
various personality traits, behavioural tendencies or clinical characteristics. 
The present study examined in greater depth the relationships between the 
components of psychopathy as measured by the Psychopathy Checklist-Revised 
(PCL-R) and intelligence as well as impulsivity. A total of ninety male violent 
offenders were recruited from a prison and a forensic-psychiatric hospital in 
Germany. All of the subjects were assessed using the PCL-R, the Barratt 
Impulsiveness Scale (BIS-11), and a short version of the German Wechsler Adult 
Intelligence Scale (WIP). As expected, a canonical correlation analysis showed a 
negative association between spatial intelligence and the Factor 2 subtotal on 
the PCL-R (reckless lifestyle/antisociality). In addition, our results agreed 
with the assumption of an association between impulsivity and the subtotal for 
PCL-R Factor 2. The positive relationship between verbal intelligence and the 
subtotal for Factor 1 of the PCL-R (insincere, manipulative conduct/affective 
deficits) vanished after controlling for educational level. The results indicate 
that there is a relationship between the spatial components of intelligence and 
the concept of psychopathy as described by Hare. This result supports the 
spatial impairment aetiological model of antisocial behaviour.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijlp.2013.11.018
PMID: 24295537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


232. Biosystems. 2014 Feb;116:1-9. doi: 10.1016/j.biosystems.2013.11.002. Epub 2013 
Dec 1.

Cognitively inspired reinforcement learning architecture and its application to 
giant-swing motion control.

Uragami D(1), Takahashi T(2), Matsuo Y(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Computer Science, Tokyo University of Technology, Katakuramachi, 
Hachioji City, Tokyo 192-0982, Japan. Electronic address: dduragami@gmail.com.
(2)School of Science and Technology, Tokyo Denki University, Hatoyama, Hiki, 
Saitama 350-0394, Japan. Electronic address: tatsujitakahashi@mac.com.
(3)School of Computer Science, Tokyo University of Technology, Katakuramachi, 
Hachioji City, Tokyo 192-0982, Japan. Electronic address: matsuo@stf.teu.ac.jp.

Many algorithms and methods in artificial intelligence or machine learning were 
inspired by human cognition. As a mechanism to handle the 
exploration-exploitation dilemma in reinforcement learning, the loosely 
symmetric (LS) value function that models causal intuition of humans was 
proposed (Shinohara et al., 2007). While LS shows the highest correlation with 
causal induction by humans, it has been reported that it effectively works in 
multi-armed bandit problems that form the simplest class of tasks representing 
the dilemma. However, the scope of application of LS was limited to the 
reinforcement learning problems that have K actions with only one state (K-armed 
bandit problems). This study proposes LS-Q learning architecture that can deal 
with general reinforcement learning tasks with multiple states and delayed 
reward. We tested the learning performance of the new architecture in 
giant-swing robot motion learning, where uncertainty and unknown-ness of the 
environment is huge. In the test, the help of ready-made internal models or 
functional approximation of the state space were not given. The simulations 
showed that while the ordinary Q-learning agent does not reach giant-swing 
motion because of stagnant loops (local optima with low rewards), LS-Q escapes 
such loops and acquires giant-swing. It is confirmed that the smaller number of 
states is, in other words, the more coarse-grained the division of states and 
the more incomplete the state observation is, the better LS-Q performs in 
comparison with Q-learning. We also showed that the high performance of LS-Q 
depends comparatively little on parameter tuning and learning time. This 
suggests that the proposed method inspired by human cognition works adaptively 
in real environments.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biosystems.2013.11.002
PMID: 24296286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


233. Shock. 2014 May;41 Suppl 1:13-20. doi: 10.1097/SHK.0000000000000096.

Challenges and possibilities in forward resuscitation.

Hooper TJ(1), De Pasquale M, Strandenes G, Sunde G, Ward KR.

Author information:
(1)*UK Defence Medical Services, Anaesthetic Department, Frenchay Hospital, 
North Bristol Trust, Bristol, United Kingdom; †Deployment Medicine 
International, Gig Harbor, Washington; ‡Norwegian Naval Special Operation 
Commando, Department of Immunology and Transfusion Medicine, and §The Norwegian 
Air Ambulance Foundation, Department of Anesthesia and Intensive Care, Haukeland 
University Hospital, Bergen, Norway; and ∥Michigan Center for Integrative 
Research in Critical Care (MCIRCC), Department of Emergency Medicine, University 
of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan.

The environmental and logistical constraints of the prehospital setting make it 
a challenging place for the treatment of trauma patients. This is perhaps more 
pronounced in the management of battlefield casualties before extraction to 
definitive care. In seeking solutions, interest has been renewed in implementing 
damage control resuscitation principles in the prehospital setting, a concept 
termed remote damage control resuscitation. These developments, while improving 
conflict survival rates, are not exclusive to the military environment, with 
similar situations existing in the civilian setting. By understanding the 
pathophysiology of shock, particularly the need for oxygen debt repayment, 
improvements in the assessment and management of trauma patients can be made. 
Technology gaps have previously hampered our ability to accurately monitor the 
prehospital trauma patient in real time. However, this is changing, with devices 
such as tissue hemoglobin oxygen saturation monitors and point-of-care lactate 
analysis currently being refined. Other monitoring modalities including newer 
signal analysis and artificial intelligence techniques are also in development. 
Advances in hemostatic resuscitation are being made as our understanding and 
ability to effectively monitor patients improve. The reevaluation of whole-blood 
use in the prehospital environment is yielding favorable results and challenging 
the negative dogma currently associated with its use. Management of 
trauma-related airway and respiratory compromise is evolving, with scope to 
improve on currently accepted practices. The purpose of this review is to 
highlight the challenges of treating patients in the prehospital setting and 
suggest potential solutions. In doing so, we hope to maintain the enthusiasm 
from people in the field and highlight areas for prehospital specific research 
and development, so that improved rates of casualty survival will continue.

DOI: 10.1097/SHK.0000000000000096
PMID: 24296432 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234. JAMA Pediatr. 2014 Feb;168(2):114-21. doi: 10.1001/jamapediatrics.2013.3817.

Effects of home visits by paraprofessionals and by nurses on children: follow-up 
of a randomized trial at ages 6 and 9 years.

Olds DL(1), Holmberg JR(1), Donelan-McCall N(1), Luckey DW(2), Knudtson MD(1), 
Robinson J(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, School of Medicine, University of Colorado Denver, 
Aurora.
(2)Department of Biostatistics and Informatics, Colorado Public School of 
Health, University of Colorado Denver, Aurora.
(3)Department of Human Development and Family Studies, University of 
Connecticut, Storrs.

Comment in
    JAMA Pediatr. 2014 Feb;168(2):105-6.
    Evid Based Nurs. 2015 Apr;18(2):50-1.

IMPORTANCE: The Nurse-Family Partnership delivered by nurses has been found to 
produce long-term effects on maternal and child health in replicated randomized 
trials. A persistent question is whether paraprofessional home visitors might 
produce comparable effects.
OBJECTIVE: To examine the impact of prenatal and infancy/toddler home visits by 
paraprofessionals and by nurses on child development at child ages 6 and 9 
years.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: Randomized trial in public and private care 
settings in Denver, Colorado, of 735 low-income women and their first-born 
children (85% of the mothers were unmarried; 47% were Hispanic, 35% were 
non-Hispanic white, 15% were African American, and 3% were American 
Indian/Asian).
INTERVENTIONS: Home visits provided from pregnancy through child age 2 years 
delivered in one group by paraprofessionals and in the other by nurses.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Reports of children's internalizing, externalizing, 
and total emotional/behavioral problems, and tests of children's language, 
intelligence, attention, attention dysfunction, visual attention/task switching, 
working memory, and academic achievement. We hypothesized that program effects 
on cognitive-related outcomes would be more pronounced among children born to 
mothers with low psychological resources. We report paraprofessional-control and 
nurse-control differences with P < .10 given similar effects in a previous 
trial, earlier effects in this trial, and limited statistical power.
RESULTS: There were no significant paraprofessional effects on 
emotional/behavioral problems, but paraprofessional-visited children born to 
mothers with low psychological resources compared with control group 
counterparts exhibited fewer errors in visual attention/task switching at age 9 
years (effect size = -0.30, P = .08). There were no statistically significant 
paraprofessional effects on other primary outcomes. Nurse-visited children were 
less likely to be classified as having total emotional/behavioral problems at 
age 6 years (relative risk [RR] = 0.45, P = .08), internalizing problems at age 
9 years (RR = 0.44, P = .08), and dysfunctional attention at age 9 years (RR = 
0.34, P = .07). Nurse-visited children born to low-resource mothers compared 
with control-group counterparts had better receptive language averaged over ages 
2, 4, and 6 years (effect size = 0.30, P = .01) and sustained attention averaged 
over ages 4, 6, and 9 years (effect size = 0.36, P = .006). There were no 
significant nurse effects on externalizing problems, intellectual functioning, 
and academic achievement.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Children born to low-resource mothers visited by 
paraprofessionals exhibited improvement in visual attention/task switching. 
Nurse-visited children showed improved behavioral functioning, and those born to 
low-resource mothers benefited in language and attention but did not improve in 
intellectual functioning and academic achievement.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00438282 and NCT00438594.

DOI: 10.1001/jamapediatrics.2013.3817
PMCID: PMC4217160
PMID: 24296904 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


235. JAMA Pediatr. 2014 Feb;168(2):170-7. doi: 10.1001/jamapediatrics.2013.3974.

Psychopathology and its risk and protective factors in hearing-impaired children 
and adolescents: a systematic review.

Theunissen SC(1), Rieffe C(2), Netten AP(1), Briaire JJ(1), Soede W(1), Schoones 
JW(3), Frijns JH(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology and Head and Neck Surgery, Leiden 
University Medical Center, Leiden, the Netherlands.
(2)Department of Developmental Psychology, Leiden University, Leiden, the 
Netherlands3Dutch Foundation for the Deaf and Hard of Hearing Child, Amsterdam, 
the Netherlands.
(3)Walaeus Library, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, the Netherlands.
(4)Department of Otorhinolaryngology and Head and Neck Surgery, Leiden 
University Medical Center, Leiden, the Netherlands5Leiden Institute for Brain 
and Cognition, Leiden, the Netherlands.

Comment in
    JAMA Pediatr. 2014 Aug;168(8):778-9.

IMPORTANCE: Pediatric hearing impairment is a chronic handicap that can 
potentially lead to the development of psychopathology. Yet, for 
hearing-impaired children and adolescents, the exact occurrence of various forms 
of psychopathology and its causes are unclear, while this knowledge is essential 
to enable targeted screenings and interventions.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the level of psychopathological symptoms in 
hearing-impaired children and adolescents as compared with normally hearing 
peers. Second, the influence of type of hearing device and possible risk and 
protective factors on psychopathology were examined.
EVIDENCE REVIEW: A systematic literature search was performed covering relevant 
databases, including PubMed, Embase, and Web of Science. Two independent 
researchers identified the relevant articles. The final search was performed on 
May 2, 2013, and resulted in a total of 35 articles.
FINDINGS: Literature consistently demonstrated that hearing-impaired children 
and adolescents were more prone to developing depression, aggression, 
oppositional defiant disorder, conduct disorder, and psychopathy than their 
normally hearing peers. Levels of anxiety, somatization, and delinquency were 
elevated in some, but not all, hearing-impaired participants, for reasons 
related to sex, age, and type of school. Divergent results were obtained for the 
level of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder and the influence of type of 
hearing device on psychopathology. Possible risk and protective factors were 
identified, including age at detection and intervention of hearing loss, 
additional disabilities, communication skills, intelligence, type of school, and 
number of siblings.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Literature on psychopathology in hearing-impaired 
children and adolescents is scarce and sometimes inconsistent. To define a more 
precise occurrence of psychopathology, more studies are needed. These studies 
should have a longitudinal design to draw firmer conclusions on causality. 
Hopefully, this will lead to more knowledge in the future to help and support 
each hearing-impaired individual.

DOI: 10.1001/jamapediatrics.2013.3974
PMID: 24296921 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


236. Methods Mol Biol. 2014;1104:343-53. doi: 10.1007/978-1-62703-733-4_21.

Cell assessment by at-line microscopy.

Babitzky A(1), Lindner P, Scheper T.

Author information:
(1)Center of Applied Chemistry, Institute of Technical Chemistry, Leibniz 
University Hanover, Hanover, Germany.

This protocol regards a microscopic application and software for image-guided 
monitoring of mammalian cells which grow in suspension cultures. It has been 
developed in order to establish an automated microscopic application for in situ 
and at-line cell monitoring in bioreactors (Akin et al., Biosens Bioelectron 
26:4532-4537, 2011; Babitzky et al., At-line microscopic analysis of suspension 
cell cultures. In: ECCE/ECAB, the first joint European Congress of chemical 
engineering and applied biotechnology, September 25-29, 2011, Berlin, Germany, 
2011. http://www.tci.uni-hannover.de, Poster). The application aims to assess 
the analysis of an appropriated sample volume of mammalian cell cultivation 
medium. The sample is injected into a microfluidic slide which is suitable for 
transmitted light microscopy and is attached to an automated microscope device, 
the at-line microscope. The major attribute of microscope automation ascribes to 
the camera software, which enables sequential image capturing and storing. Image 
analysis and cell detection are performed by the software that is based on the 
edge detection algorithm developed by Canny (IEEE Trans Pattern Anal Mach Intell 
8:679-698, 1986; Finding edges and lines in images.Technical Report 720, MIT 
Artificial Intelligence Laboratory, 1983). The analysis results are cell count, 
morphological characteristics, and grayscale values of the detected cells. The 
presented setup can be applied to low-volume cultivations and has been 
successfully tested for monitoring CHO-K1 cell cultivation processes.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-62703-733-4_21
PMID: 24297425 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


237. Perspect Psychiatr Care. 2014 Jan;50(1):44-50. doi: 10.1111/ppc.12024.

Quality of life of patients with euthymic bipolar disorder and its associations 
with demographic and clinical characteristics, psychopathology, and cognitive 
deficits.

Xiang YT, Li LJ, Zhou JJ, Wang CY, Dixon LB, Dickerson F, Zhou FC, Ungvari GS, 
Zhang XY, Shum DH, Au RW, Tang WK, Man D, Chiu HF.

PURPOSE: Little is known about quality of life (QOL) in Chinese patients with 
bipolar disorder (BD) in remission (euthymia). This study examined the QOL of 
such a cohort of BD patients and its demographic, clinical, and cognitive 
correlates.
DESIGN AND METHODS: Forty-seven euthymic BD patients and 47 matched healthy 
controls formed the study sample. Socio-demographic characteristics, prospective 
memory, retrospective memory, intelligence quotient, and executive functioning 
were measured in all participants together with patients’ psychopathology 
ratings.
FINDINGS: Multivariate analyses revealed that compared to controls, euthymic BD 
patients had significantly lower satisfaction with physical QOL domain. Only 
subthreshold depressive symptoms independently contributed to reduced 
satisfaction with physical and environmental QOL domains, whereas no variable 
predicted its psychological and social domains.
PRACTICE IMPLICATIONS: Contrary to findings from Western settings, demographic 
variables and cognitive deficits had no associations with any QOL domain in 
euthymic Chinese BD patients. Control of subthreshold depressive symptoms in 
euthymic BD patients might enhance their QOL.

DOI: 10.1111/ppc.12024
PMID: 24308864 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


238. J Ambul Care Manage. 2014 Jan-Mar;37(1):20-31. doi: 
10.1097/JAC.0000000000000002.

HIE-i-health information exchange with intelligence.

Nagykaldi ZJ(1), Yeaman B, Jones M, Mold JW, Scheid DC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family and Preventive Medicine, University of Oklahoma Health 
Sciences Center, Oklahoma City (Drs Nagykaldi, Mold, and Scheid); Norman 
Regional Health System, Norman, Oklahoma (Dr Yeaman); and Secure Medical Records 
Transfer Network (SMRTNet), Tahlequah, Oklahoma (Mr Jones).

This article demonstrates the development and pilot testing of an innovative 
approach to implement health information exchange with intelligence (HIE-i) in 
primary care settings. Records of 346 patients were studied in 6 primary care 
practices. Clinical workflows were evaluated by time motion studies and 
observations. A viable and sustained HIE connection was adopted by primary care 
clinicians. Documentation and delivery of several preventive services, 
medication reconciliation, and workflow efficiency improved. The study was able 
to establish a sustained and effective HIE implementation. More research is 
needed to determine the clinical impact and sustainability of the HIE-i 
approach.

DOI: 10.1097/JAC.0000000000000002
PMID: 24309392 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


239. Int J Eat Disord. 2014 May;47(4):431-6. doi: 10.1002/eat.22231. Epub 2013 Nov 
28.

Bulimia nervosa patient diagnosed with previously unsuspected ADHD in adulthood: 
clinical case report, literature review, and diagnostic challenges.

Ioannidis K(1), Serfontein J, Müller U.

Author information:
(1)Cambridgeshire and Peterborough NHS Foundation Trust, Cambridge, United 
Kingdom.

There is increasing literature suggesting a link between attention-deficit 
hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and eating disorders (EDs), especially bulimia 
nervosa. ADHD is under-diagnosed in girls and children of high intelligence are 
typically missed. We identified a case of a 23-year-old woman suffering from 
severe bulimia nervosa and previously unsuspected ADHD in adulthood; we 
diagnosed and treated her with extended-release methylphenidate. We performed a 
literature review on the ADHD and bulimia nervosa comorbidity. We discuss the 
reasons why her ADHD remained undiagnosed and the difficulties in diagnosing 
ADHD in patients with EDs. We suggest that identifying comorbid ADHD is crucial 
for these patients and argue for the use of a structured interview, collateral 
history and investigation of onset of symptoms to establish a diagnosis of ADHD 
in adults with bulimia nervosa. Comorbidities and overlap of symptomatology need 
to be taken into account.

Copyright © 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/eat.22231
PMID: 24311027 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


240. Andrologia. 2014 Dec;46(10):1107-12. doi: 10.1111/and.12199. Epub 2013 Dec 8.

Impaired emotional state, quality of life and cognitive functions in young 
hypogonadal men.

Lašaitė L(1), Ceponis J, Preikša RT, Zilaitienė B.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Endocrinology, Lithuanian University of Health Sciences, Kaunas, 
Lithuania.

The study aimed to analyse emotional state, quality of life and cognitive 
functions in young hypogonadal men. Thirty-four males with hypogonadism (age 
29.1 ± 10.5 years) and 34 age-matched healthy males (age 30.5 ± 11.0 years) were 
recruited. Their emotional state was evaluated by Profile of Mood States, 
quality of life - by WHO Brief Quality of Life Questionnaire - and cognitive 
functioning - by Trail Making Test and Digit Span Test of Wechsler Adult 
Intelligence Scale. It was found that young men with hypogonadism had higher 
depression-dejection (13.1 ± 8.8 versus 7.4 ± 5.9, P = 0.003), fatigue-inertia 
(10.0 ± 5.8 versus 7.0 ± 4.9, P = 0.030), confusion-bewilderment (5.1 ± 4.6 
versus 2.3 ± 3.1, P = 0.004) and lower vigour-activity (14.3 ± 5.1 versus 
17.7 ± 4.3, P = 0.008) levels than age- and sex-matched controls. Quality of 
life psychological (13.1 ± 2.8 versus 15.1 ± 1.9, P = 0.005) and social 
(13.6 ± 2.4 versus 15.7 ± 2.0, P < 0.001) domains were significantly worse in 
men with hypogonadism than in controls. Cognitive functions were significantly 
worse (P < 0.001) in men with hypogonadism than in controls, showing worse 
executive function, attention, visual scanning abilities and psychomotor speed. 
A significant correlation was found between testosterone concentration and 
quality of life psychological domain. Cognitive functioning scores were 
significantly related with FT4 concentration. It is concluded that young 
hypogonadal patients have impaired emotional state and quality of life, but the 
most severe impairment was found in cognitive functioning.

© 2013 Blackwell Verlag GmbH.

DOI: 10.1111/and.12199
PMID: 24313565 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


241. Psychiatry Clin Neurosci. 2014 Mar;68(3):234-41. doi: 10.1111/pcn.12119. Epub 
2013 Dec 8.

Relation between remission status and attention in patients with schizophrenia.

Fukumoto M(1), Hashimoto R, Ohi K, Yasuda Y, Yamamori H, Umeda-Yano S, Iwase M, 
Kazui H, Takeda M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Osaka University Graduate School of Medicine, 
Osaka, Japan; Core Research for Evolutionary Science and Technology (CREST) of 
Japan Science and Technology Agency (JST), Saitama, Japan.

AIM: Patients with schizophrenia in remission have shown significantly higher 
levels of neurocognitive function than patients not in remission. However, 
previous studies have mainly examined the association between neurocognitive 
function and the remission status of schizophrenia without considering the time 
component of the definition for remission using cross-sectional methods. The 
purpose of this study was to investigate the relations between remission status 
with considering time components and three cognitive functions of intellectual 
ability, memory and attention, which were examined before fulfilling the 
remission criteria, using longitudinal methods.
METHODS: We assessed the remission status using the Positive and Negative 
Syndrome Scale (PANSS) on the same patients twice: at recruitment and at 6 
months after the first PANSS assessment. Cognitive tests were performed within 3 
months after recruitment. At recruitment, 337 patients were enrolled. Of the 
patients, 63 patients were followed up and completedthe first and second PANSS 
assessments and three cognitive tests at the end of study.
RESULTS: Of the patients, 33 patients fulfilled the remission criteria, while 30 
patients did not fulfill the criteria. Patients in remission showed 
significantly higher levels of 2-digit (P = 0.020) and 3-digit (P = 0.015) 
Continuous Performance Test scores, attention/concentration in the Wechsler 
Memory Scale-Revised (P = 0.034) and processing speeds in the Wechsler Adult 
Intelligence Scale-III (P = 0.047) than patients not in remission. Additionally, 
these cognitive scores were positively correlated with each other (P < 0.05).
CONCLUSION: Our findings suggest that patients who achieve remission may 
demonstrate a pre-existing higher level of attention than patients who do not 
achieve remission.

© 2013 The Authors. Psychiatry and Clinical Neurosciences © 2013 Japanese 
Society of Psychiatry and Neurology.

DOI: 10.1111/pcn.12119
PMID: 24313598 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


242. Epilepsia. 2014 Jan;55(1):123-32. doi: 10.1111/epi.12479. Epub 2013 Dec 6.

Diagnostic delays in children with early onset epilepsy: impact, reasons, and 
opportunities to improve care.

Berg AT(1), Loddenkemper T, Baca CB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Epilepsy Center, and Northwestern Memorial Feinberg 
School of Medicine, Ann & Robert H. Lurie Children's Hospital of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois, U.S.A.

PURPOSE: Delayed diagnosis of early onset epilepsy is a potentially important 
and avoidable complication in epilepsy care. We examined the frequency of 
diagnostic delays in young children with newly presenting epilepsy, their 
developmental impact, and reasons for delays.
METHODS: Children who developed epilepsy before their third birthday were 
identified in a prospective community-based cohort. An interval ≥1 month from 
second seizure to diagnosis was considered a delay. Testing of development at 
baseline and for up to 3 years after and of intelligence quotient (IQ) 8-9 years 
later was performed. Detailed parental baseline interview accounts and medical 
records were reviewed to identify potential reasons for delays. Factors 
associated with delays included the parent, child, pediatrician, neurologist, 
and scheduling.
RESULTS: Diagnostic delays occurred in 70 (41%) of 172 children. Delays occurred 
less often if children had received medical attention for the first seizure (p < 
0.0001), previously had neonatal or febrile seizures (p = 0.02), had only 
convulsions before diagnosis (p = 0.005), or had a college-educated parent (p = 
0.01). A ≥1 month diagnostic delay was associated with an average 7.4 point drop 
(p = 0.02) in the Vineland Scales of Adaptive Behavior motor score. The effect 
was present at diagnosis, persisted for at least 3 years, and was also apparent 
in IQ scores 8-9 years later, which were lower in association with a diagnostic 
delay by 8.4 points (p = 0.06) for processing speed up to 14.5 points (p = 
0.004) for full scale IQ, after adjustment for parental education and other 
epilepsy-related clinical factors. Factors associated with delayed diagnosis 
included parents not recognizing events as seizures (N = 47), pediatricians 
missing or deferring diagnosis (N = 15), neurologists deferring diagnosis (N = 
7), and scheduling problems (N = 11).
SIGNIFICANCE: Diagnostic delays occur in many young children with epilepsy. They 
are associated with substantial decrements in development and IQ later in 
childhood. Several factors influence diagnostic delays and may represent 
opportunities for intervention and improved care.

Wiley Periodicals, Inc. © 2013 International League Against Epilepsy.

DOI: 10.1111/epi.12479
PMCID: PMC3946922
PMID: 24313635 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures: The authors declare no conflicts of 
interest.


243. J Child Psychol Psychiatry. 2014 May;55(5):485-94. doi: 10.1111/jcpp.12178. Epub 
2013 Dec 9.

Predicting young adult outcome among more and less cognitively able individuals 
with autism spectrum disorders.

Anderson DK(1), Liang JW, Lord C.

Author information:
(1)Center for Autism and the Developing Brain (CADB), Weill Cornell Medical 
College, White Plains, NY, USA.

BACKGROUND: The range of outcomes for young adults with Autism Spectrum 
Disorders (ASD) and the early childhood factors associated with this diversity 
have implications for clinicians and scientists.
METHODS: This prospective study provided a unique opportunity to predict outcome 
17 years later for a relatively large sample of children diagnosed with ASD at 2 
years old. Diagnostic and psychometric instruments were administered between 2 
and 19 with data from 2, 3, and 19 included in this study. Clinicians 
administered tests without knowledge of previous assessments whenever possible. 
Caregivers provided additional information through questionnaires.
RESULTS: Significant intellectual disabilities at 19 were predicted by age 2 
about 85% of the time from VIQ and NVIQ scores together, though prediction of 
young adult outcome for youths with average or higher intelligence was more 
complex. By 19, 9% of participants had largely overcome core difficulties 
associated with ASD and no longer retained a diagnosis. These youths with Very 
Positive Outcomes were more likely to have participated in treatment and had a 
greater reduction in repetitive behaviors between age 2 and 3 compared to other 
Cognitively Able youths (VIQ ≥70) with ASD. Very Positive Outcome youths did not 
differ phenotypically from Cognitively Able ASD individuals at 2 but both groups 
differed from Cognitively Less Able individuals (VIQ <70).
CONCLUSION: Those most at risk for intellectual disabilities and ASD can be 
reliably identified at an early age to receive comprehensive treatment. Findings 
also suggest that some cognitively able children with ASD who participate in 
early intervention have very positive outcomes, although replication with 
randomized, larger samples is needed. In order to improve understanding of very 
positive outcomes in ASD, future research will need to identify how variations 
in child characteristics and environmental factors contribute to the nature and 
timing of growth across individuals and areas of development.

© 2013 The Authors. Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry © 2013 
Association for Child and Adolescent Mental Health.

DOI: 10.1111/jcpp.12178
PMCID: PMC5819743
PMID: 24313878 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest statement: See 
acknowledgements for disclosures.


244. Forensic Sci Int Genet. 2014 Jan;8(1):1-9. doi: 10.1016/j.fsigen.2013.07.004. 
Epub 2013 Sep 7.

Familial searching: a specialist forensic DNA profiling service utilising the 
National DNA Database to identify unknown offenders via their relatives--the UK 
experience.

Maguire CN(1), McCallum LA, Storey C, Whitaker JP.

Author information:
(1)Consolidated Forensic Laboratory, DC Department of Forensic Sciences, 401 E 
Street SW, Washington, DC 20024, United States. Electronic address: 
christopher.maguire@dc.gov.

The National DNA Database (NDNAD) of England and Wales was established on April 
10th 1995. The NDNAD is governed by a variety of legislative instruments that 
mean that DNA samples can be taken if an individual is arrested and detained in 
a police station. The biological samples and the DNA profiles derived from them 
can be used for purposes related to the prevention and detection of crime, the 
investigation of an offence and for the conduct of a prosecution. Following the 
South East Asian Tsunami of December 2004, the legislation was amended to allow 
the use of the NDNAD to assist in the identification of a deceased person or of 
a body part where death has occurred from natural causes or from a natural 
disaster. The UK NDNAD now contains the DNA profiles of approximately 6 million 
individuals representing 9.6% of the UK population. As the science of DNA 
profiling advanced, the National DNA Database provided a potential resource for 
increased intelligence beyond the direct matching for which it was originally 
created. The familial searching service offered to the police by several UK 
forensic science providers exploits the size and geographic coverage of the 
NDNAD and the fact that close relatives of an offender may share a significant 
proportion of that offender's DNA profile and will often reside in close 
geographic proximity to him or her. Between 2002 and 2011 Forensic Science 
Service Ltd. (FSS) provided familial search services to support 188 police 
investigations, 70 of which are still active cases. This technique, which may be 
used in serious crime cases or in 'cold case' reviews when there are few or no 
investigative leads, has led to the identification of 41 perpetrators or 
suspects. In this paper we discuss the processes, utility, and governance of the 
familial search service in which the NDNAD is searched for close genetic 
relatives of an offender who has left DNA evidence at a crime scene, but whose 
DNA profile is not represented within the NDNAD. We discuss the scientific basis 
of the familial search approach, other DNA-based methods for eliminating 
individuals from the candidate lists generated by these NDNAD searches, the 
value of filtering these lists by age, ethnic appearance and geography and the 
governance required by the NDNAD Strategy Board when a police force commissions 
a familial search. We present the FSS data in relation to the utility of the 
familial searching service and demonstrate the power of the technique by 
reference to casework examples. We comment on the uptake of familial searching 
of DNA databases in the USA, the Netherlands, Australia, and New Zealand. 
Finally, following the adverse ruling by the European Court of Human Rights 
against the UK in regard to the S & Marper cases and the consequent introduction 
of the Protection of Freedoms Act (2012), we discuss the impact that changes to 
regulations concerning the storage of DNA samples will have on the continuing 
provision of familial searching of the National DNA Database in England and 
Wales.

Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fsigen.2013.07.004
PMID: 24315582 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


245. Forensic Sci Int Genet. 2014 Jan;8(1):10-9. doi: 10.1016/j.fsigen.2013.06.014. 
Epub 2013 Sep 7.

I-DNASE21 system: development and SWGDAM validation of a new STR 21-plex 
reaction.

Aznar JM(1), Celorrio D, Odriozola A, Köhnemann S, Bravo ML, Builes JJ, Pfeiffer 
H, Herrera RJ, de Pancorbo MM.

Author information:
(1)BIOMICs Research Group, Centro de Investigación "Lascaray" Ikergunea, 
Universidad del País Vasco UPV/EHU, Avda. Miguel de Unamuno 3, 01006 
Vitoria-Gasteiz, Spain. Electronic address: jmao1982@gmail.com.

I-DNASE21 is a new STR multiplex system that amplifies 21 STR autosomal loci, 
plus the amelogenin locus in one reaction. This system has been designed to 
analyze all the STR loci included in the Combined DNA Index System (CODIS), 
Interpol Standard Set of Loci (ISSL), Extended European Standard Set 
(ESS-Extended), UK National Criminal Intelligence DNA Database (NDNAD) and 
German Core loci (GCL). This manuscript presents the validation of the I-DNASE21 
system according to the revised guidelines issued by the Scientific Working 
Group on DNA Analysis Methods (SWGDAM). The results of this validation, added to 
the extremely high discriminatory power showed, suggest that I-DNASE21 could be 
a potentially helpful tool for identification and kinship determination even in 
complex paternity cases.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fsigen.2013.06.014
PMID: 24315583 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


246. Br J Anaesth. 2014 Mar;112(3):546-55. doi: 10.1093/bja/aet406. Epub 2013 Dec 5.

National critical incident reporting systems relevant to anaesthesia: a European 
survey.

Reed S(1), Arnal D, Frank O, Gomez-Arnau JI, Hansen J, Lester O, Mikkelsen KL, 
Rhaiem T, Rosenberg PH, St Pierre M, Schleppers A, Staender S, Smith AF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anaesthesia, Royal Lancaster Infirmary, Lancaster, UK.

BACKGROUND: Critical incident reporting is a key tool in the promotion of 
patient safety in anaesthesia.
METHODS: We surveyed representatives of national incident reporting systems in 
six European countries, inviting information on scope and organization, and 
intelligence on factors determining success and failure.
RESULTS: Some systems are government-run and nationally conceived; others 
started out as small, specialty-focused initiatives, which have since acquired a 
national reach. However, both national co-ordination and specialty enthusiasts 
seem to be necessary for an optimally functioning system. The role of reporting 
culture, definitional issues, and dissemination is discussed.
CONCLUSIONS: We make recommendations for others intending to start new systems 
and speculate on the prospects for sharing patient safety lessons relevant to 
anaesthesia at European level.

DOI: 10.1093/bja/aet406
PMID: 24318857 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


247. J Chem Inf Model. 2014 Jan 27;54(1):16-29. doi: 10.1021/ci400280n. Epub 2013 Dec 
23.

Modeling complex metabolic reactions, ecological systems, and financial and 
legal networks with MIANN models based on Markov-Wiener node descriptors.

Duardo-Sánchez A(1), Munteanu CR, Riera-Fernández P, López-Díaz A, Pazos A, 
González-Díaz H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Information and Communication Technologies, Computer Science 
Faculty, University of A Coruña , Campus de Elviña, 15071, A Coruña, A Coruña, 
Spain.

The use of numerical parameters in Complex Network analysis is expanding to new 
fields of application. At a molecular level, we can use them to describe the 
molecular structure of chemical entities, protein interactions, or metabolic 
networks. However, the applications are not restricted to the world of molecules 
and can be extended to the study of macroscopic nonliving systems, organisms, or 
even legal or social networks. On the other hand, the development of the field 
of Artificial Intelligence has led to the formulation of computational 
algorithms whose design is based on the structure and functioning of networks of 
biological neurons. These algorithms, called Artificial Neural Networks (ANNs), 
can be useful for the study of complex networks, since the numerical parameters 
that encode information of the network (for example centralities/node 
descriptors) can be used as inputs for the ANNs. The Wiener index (W) is a graph 
invariant widely used in chemoinformatics to quantify the molecular structure of 
drugs and to study complex networks. In this work, we explore for the first time 
the possibility of using Markov chains to calculate analogues of node distance 
numbers/W to describe complex networks from the point of view of their nodes. 
These parameters are called Markov-Wiener node descriptors of order k(th) 
(W(k)). Please, note that these descriptors are not related to Markov-Wiener 
stochastic processes. Here, we calculated the W(k)(i) values for a very high 
number of nodes (>100,000) in more than 100 different complex networks using the 
software MI-NODES. These networks were grouped according to the field of 
application. Molecular networks include the Metabolic Reaction Networks (MRNs) 
of 40 different organisms. In addition, we analyzed other biological and legal 
and social networks. These include the Interaction Web Database Biological 
Networks (IWDBNs), with 75 food webs or ecological systems and the Spanish 
Financial Law Network (SFLN). The calculated W(k)(i) values were used as inputs 
for different ANNs in order to discriminate correct node connectivity patterns 
from incorrect random patterns. The MIANN models obtained present good values of 
Sensitivity/Specificity (%): MRNs (78/78), IWDBNs (90/88), and SFLN (86/84). 
These preliminary results are very promising from the point of view of a first 
exploratory study and suggest that the use of these models could be extended to 
the high-throughput re-evaluation of connectivity in known complex networks 
(collation).

DOI: 10.1021/ci400280n
PMID: 24320872 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


248. J Matern Fetal Neonatal Med. 2014 Nov;27(16):1620-6. doi: 
10.3109/14767058.2013.871699. Epub 2014 Jan 13.

Long-term outcome at age 7-10 years after extreme prematurity - a prospective, 
two centre cohort study of children born before 25 completed weeks of gestation 
(1999-2003).

Herber-Jonat S(1), Streiftau S, Knauss E, Voigt F, Flemmer AW, Hummler HD, 
Schulze A, Bode H.

Author information:
(1)Division of Neonatology, Perinatal Centre, Klinikum Großhadern, Dr. von 
Hauner Children's Hospital, University of Munich , Munich , Germany .

OBJECTIVE: We aimed to determine the long-term neurodevelopmental outcome in 
extremely preterm infants of 22-23 completed weeks' gestation as compared to 
infants of 24 weeks with immediate postnatal life support born in two German 
tertiary perinatal centres between 1999 and 2003.
METHODS: Children were assessed for cognitive and neurological outcomes at the 
age of 7-10 years. The test battery included a neurological examination, the 
Wechsler Intelligence Scale for children (WISC-IV) and the Frostigs 
Developmental Test of Visual Perception (DTVP-2). Gross motor function was 
classified according to the GMFCS and functional activity was assessed with the 
Lincoln Oseretzky Motor Development Scale (LOS KF 18).
RESULTS: Outcome data were available for 79/105 children. 75.9% of the entire 
study cohort showed no or mild impairment. There was no difference seen between 
the two gestational age groups. Risk factors for moderate or severe impairment 
were an intracerebral haemorrhage >II° and/or periventricular leukomalacia or a 
retinopathy of prematurity >II°. Neither the gestational age (GA) nor the birth 
weight was associated with long-term outcome.
CONCLUSIONS: Gestational age was not a predictor for long-term impairment of 
preterm infants born <25 completed weeks' GA. Other prognostic factors should be 
taken into account for counselling in the grey zone of viability.

DOI: 10.3109/14767058.2013.871699
PMID: 24321019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


249. Brain Cogn. 2014 Feb;84(1):76-84. doi: 10.1016/j.bandc.2013.11.003. Epub 2013 
Dec 8.

Assessment of cognitive function across pregnancy using CANTAB: a longitudinal 
study.

Farrar D(1), Tuffnell D(2), Neill J(3), Scally A(4), Marshall K(3).

Author information:
(1)Bradford Institute for Health Research, Bradford Royal Infirmary, Bradford 
BD9 6RJ, United Kingdom. Electronic address: diane.farrar@bthft.nhs.uk.
(2)Women's and Newborn Unit, Bradford Royal Infirmary, Bradford BD9 6RJ, United 
Kingdom.
(3)Manchester School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of 
Manchester, Manchester M13 9PT, United Kingdom.
(4)School of Health, University of Bradford, Bradford BD7 1DP, United Kingdom.

Significant changes in endogenous plasma hormone levels are required to sustain 
pregnancy which provides a unique opportunity to study their effect on cognitive 
function. Four carefully selected tests from the Cambridge Neuropsychological 
Automated Test Battery (CANTAB) were administered to assess the cognitive 
function of a group of 23 women during each trimester of pregnancy and at three 
months following birth. Test scores were compared with a control group of 24 
non-pregnant women. The Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale was administered to 
assess anxiety and risk of depression. The National Adult Reading Test (NART) 
was used as a measure of verbal intelligence. Plasma hormone levels were 
measured at each time-point. The pregnant group scored significantly lower than 
the control group on the Spatial Recognition Memory (SRM) test at the second 
trimester and postpartum assessments (p⩽0.004). A significant pregnant 
group-time interaction (p=0.005) for SRM performance was demonstrated. Compared 
to their first trimester assessment, the pregnant group scored on average 11.7% 
less on each subsequent SRM test. The pregnant group reported more symptoms of 
anxiety and depression compared to the control group (EPDS-4 point increase in 
mean score at each assessment, p=0.002). There were no plasma hormone levels and 
test score associations identified. These data suggest SRM performance is 
adversely affected by pregnancy. Other aspects of executive function seem to be 
unaffected. Although the pregnant group reported more symptoms of anxiety and 
depression compared to the control group, analysis indicates that this 
confounder is not responsible for the SRM differences.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bandc.2013.11.003
PMID: 24321198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


250. J Public Health Manag Pract. 2014 Sep-Oct;20(5):534-41. doi: 
10.1097/PHH.0b013e3182aa7dcb.

Elective medical and veterinary student rotations in applied epidemiology at the 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 1975-2012.

Cohen L(1), Coronado F, Folowoshele C, Massoudi M, Koo D.

Author information:
(1)Division of Scientific Education and Professional Development, Center for 
Surveillance, Epidemiology, and Laboratory Services, Centers for Disease Control 
and Prevention, Atlanta, Georgia (Drs Cohen, Coronado, and Koo and Ms 
Folowoshele); and Applied Research and Translation Branch, Division of 
Population Health, National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health 
Promotion, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, Georgia (Dr 
Massoudi).

CONTEXT: Health professionals who can bridge the gap between public health and 
clinical medicine are needed. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 
Epidemiology Elective Program (EEP) offers a rotation in public health for 
medical and veterinary students that provides an introduction to public health, 
preventive medicine, and the principles of applied epidemiology through 
real-world, hands-on experiential learning.
OBJECTIVE: To describe EEP, including its role in the integration of medicine 
and public health, and career paths for those who subsequently have enrolled in 
the Epidemic Intelligence Service (EIS).
DESIGN: A review of files of EEP students participating June 1975 to May 2012 
and EIS files to determine which EEP participants subsequently enrolled in EIS 
and their current employment.
RESULTS: During January 1975 to May 2012, a total of 1548 students participated 
in EEP. Six hundred thirty-eight (41.2%) EEP students participated in 
field-based epidemic-assistance investigations. Among 187 students completing an 
exit survey implemented during 2007, a total of 175 (93.6%) indicated an 
increased understanding or competence in applied epidemiology and public health, 
and 98 (52.4%) indicated that they would apply to EIS. Among the 165 (10.7%) who 
enrolled in and completed EIS by July 2012, 106 (64.2%) are currently employed 
in public health and 65 (39.4%) are board-certified in preventive medicine, 
board eligible, or currently enrolled in the Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention Preventive Medicine Residency or Fellowship.
CONCLUSIONS: The CDC Epidemiology Elective Program offers opportunities for 
medical and veterinary students to participate in real-world public health 
learning activities. The Epidemiology Elective Program provides increased 
understanding and competence in applied epidemiology, provides students with 
opportunities to learn about population health and health care problems and the 
tools to help them bridge the gap between clinical medicine and public health, 
and serves as a source for EIS and other public health-related training and 
careers.

DOI: 10.1097/PHH.0b013e3182aa7dcb
PMID: 24322840 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


251. Proteomics. 2014 Mar;14(4-5):353-66. doi: 10.1002/pmic.201300289. Epub 2014 Jan 
21.

Machine learning applications in proteomics research: how the past can boost the 
future.

Kelchtermans P(1), Bittremieux W, De Grave K, Degroeve S, Ramon J, Laukens K, 
Valkenborg D, Barsnes H, Martens L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Protein Research, VIB, Ghent, Belgium; Faculty of 
Medicine and Health Sciences, Department of Biochemistry, Ghent University, 
Ghent, Belgium; Flemish Institute for Technological Research (VITO), Boeretang, 
Mol, Belgium.

Machine learning is a subdiscipline within artificial intelligence that focuses 
on algorithms that allow computers to learn solving a (complex) problem from 
existing data. This ability can be used to generate a solution to a particularly 
intractable problem, given that enough data are available to train and 
subsequently evaluate an algorithm on. Since MS-based proteomics has no shortage 
of complex problems, and since publicly available data are becoming available in 
ever growing amounts, machine learning is fast becoming a very popular tool in 
the field. We here therefore present an overview of the different applications 
of machine learning in proteomics that together cover nearly the entire wet- and 
dry-lab workflow, and that address key bottlenecks in experiment planning and 
design, as well as in data processing and analysis.

© 2013 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

DOI: 10.1002/pmic.201300289
PMID: 24323524 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


252. Health Policy. 2014 Feb;114(2-3):269-77. doi: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2013.11.009. 
Epub 2013 Nov 25.

Universal coverage challenges require health system approaches; the case of 
India.

Duran A(1), Kutzin J(2), Menabde N(3).

Author information:
(1)Técnicas de Salud, Sevilla, Spain. Electronic address: aduran@tecsalud.com.
(2)WHO HQ, Geneva, Switzerland.
(3)WHO Country Office India, Delhi, India.

This paper uses the case of India to demonstrate that Universal Health Coverage 
(UHC) is about not only health financing; personal and population services 
production issues, stewardship of the health system and generation of the 
necessary resources and inputs need to accompany the health financing proposals. 
In order to help policy makers address UHC in India and sort out implementation 
issues, the framework developed by the World Health Organization (WHO) in the 
World Health Report 2000 and its subsequent extensions are advocated. The 
framework includes final goals, generic intermediate objectives and four 
inter-dependent functions which interact as a system; it can be useful by 
diagnosing current shortcomings and facilitating the filling up of gaps between 
functions and goals. Different positions are being defended in India re the 
preconditions for UHC to succeed. This paper argues that more (public) money 
will be important, but not enough; it needs to be supplemented with broad 
interventions at various health system levels. The paper analyzes some of the 
most important issues in relation to the functions of service production, 
generation of inputs and the necessary stewardship. It also pays attention to 
reform implementation, as different from its design, and suggests critical 
aspects emanating from a review of recent health system reforms. Precisely 
because of the lack of comparative reference for India, emphasis is made on the 
need to accompany implementation with analysis, so that the "solutions" ("what 
to do?", "how to do it?") are found through policy analysis and research 
embedded into flexible implementation. Strengthening "evidence-to-policy" links 
and the intelligence dimension of stewardship/leadership as well as 
accountability during implementation are considered paramount. Countries facing 
similar challenges to those faced by India can also benefit from the above 
approaches.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2013.11.009
PMID: 24326300 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


253. Eur J Neurol. 2014 May;21(5):708-17. doi: 10.1111/ene.12301. Epub 2013 Dec 16.

Alterations in white matter microstructures and cognitive dysfunctions in benign 
childhood epilepsy with centrotemporal spikes.

Kim SE(1), Lee JH, Chung HK, Lim SM, Lee HW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Ewha Womans University School of Medicine and Ewha 
Medical Research Institute, Seoul, South Korea.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Although benign childhood epilepsy with centrotemporal 
spikes (BECTS) is known to have good prognosis, patients often manifest 
neuropsychological impairments. This study aimed to investigate cognitive 
dysfunctions and their relationship with white matter microstructural changes in 
BECTS patients.
METHODS: Nineteen BECTS and 25 normal subjects aged 7-16 years were included. 
Neuropsychological performances were assessed by the Wechsler Intelligence Scale 
for Children III, executive function tests, verbal and visuospatial memory 
tests, the verbal fluency and Boston naming tests. Diffusion tensor imaging 
(DTI) was performed to measure the fractional anisotropy (FA), axial (AD), 
radial (RD), and mean diffusivities (MD). The voxel-wise tract-based spatial 
statistics and region of interest methods were used for DTI, and their 
correlations with cognitive variables were analyzed.
RESULTS: Patients with BECTS had lower intelligence quotient (IQ) scores 
compared with those of the control group. Higher AD and MD values were found in 
the left superior longitudinal fasciculus, the retrolenticular part of the 
internal capsule, posterior thalamic radiation, sagittal stratum and the body of 
the corpus callosum in BECTS patients compared with controls. Lower performances 
in verbal IQ, freedom from distractibility and processing speed were correlated 
with higher AD in the left superior fronto-occipital fasciculus, and lower 
verbal IQ scores were correlated with decreased FA values in the splenium of the 
corpus callosum in these patients.
CONCLUSIONS: White matter microstructural changes predominantly in the left 
hemisphere might contribute to their cognitive abnormalities especially verbal 
IQ in BECTS patients.

© 2013 The Author(s) European Journal of Neurology © 2013 EFNS.

DOI: 10.1111/ene.12301
PMID: 24330132 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


254. J Adolesc. 2014 Jan;37(1):37-46. doi: 10.1016/j.adolescence.2013.10.005. Epub 
2013 Nov 15.

Feasibility and validity of ecological momentary assessment in adolescents with 
high-functioning autism and Asperger's disorder.

Khor AS(1), Gray KM(2), Reid SC(3), Melvin GA(4).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Developmental Psychiatry and Psychology, School of Psychology & 
Psychiatry, Monash University, Australia. Electronic address: 
Angela.khor@gmail.com.
(2)Centre for Developmental Psychiatry and Psychology, School of Psychology & 
Psychiatry, Monash University, Australia. Electronic address: 
Kylie.gray@monash.edu.
(3)Murdoch Childrens Research Institute, Royal Children's Hospital, Flemington 
Road, Parkville, VIC 3052, Australia. Electronic address: 
Sophie.reid@mcri.edu.au.
(4)Centre for Developmental Psychiatry and Psychology, School of Psychology & 
Psychiatry, Monash University, Australia. Electronic address: 
Glenn.melvin@monash.edu.

Ecological Momentary Assessment (EMA) may increase accuracy of data compared 
with retrospective questionnaires by assessing behaviours as they occur, hence 
decreasing recall biases and increasing ecological validity. This study examined 
the feasibility and concurrent validity of an EMA tool for adolescents with 
High-Functioning Autism Spectrum Disorders (HFASD). Thirty-one adolescents with 
HFASD completed a mobile phone EMA application that assessed stressors and 
coping for two weeks. Parents and adolescents also completed retrospective 
measures of the adolescent's coping/stressors. Moderate compliance with the EMA 
tool was achieved and some concurrent validity was established with the 
retrospective measure of coping. Concordance was found between the types of 
stressors reported by parents and adolescents but not the quantity. The results 
suggest adolescents with HFASD are capable of reporting on their stressors and 
coping via EMA. EMA has the potential to be a valuable research tool in this 
population.

Copyright © 2013 The Foundation for Professionals in Services for Adolescents. 
Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.adolescence.2013.10.005
PMID: 24331303 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


255. J Adolesc. 2014 Jan;37(1):67-71. doi: 10.1016/j.adolescence.2013.10.012. Epub 
2013 Nov 20.

Brief report: Associations between adolescent girls' social-emotional 
intelligence and violence perpetration.

Gower AL(1), Shlafer RJ(2), Polan J(3), McRee AL(4), McMorris BJ(5), Pettingell 
SL(6), Sieving RE(5).

Author information:
(1)Division of General Pediatrics and Adolescent Health, Department of 
Pediatrics, Medical School, University of Minnesota, 717 Delaware St SE, 
Minneapolis, MN 55414, USA. Electronic address: gowe0009@umn.edu.
(2)Division of General Pediatrics and Adolescent Health, Department of 
Pediatrics, Medical School, University of Minnesota, 717 Delaware St SE, 
Minneapolis, MN 55414, USA; Healthy Youth Development - Prevention Research 
Center, Division of General Pediatrics and Adolescent Health, Department of 
Pediatrics, Medical School, University of Minnesota, 717 Delaware St SE, 
Minneapolis, MN 55414, USA.
(3)Healthy Youth Development - Prevention Research Center, Division of General 
Pediatrics and Adolescent Health, Department of Pediatrics, Medical School, 
University of Minnesota, 717 Delaware St SE, Minneapolis, MN 55414, USA; Annex 
Teen Clinic, Robbinsdale, MN, USA.
(4)Division of Health Behavior and Health Promotion, The Ohio State University, 
Columbus, OH, USA.
(5)Healthy Youth Development - Prevention Research Center, Division of General 
Pediatrics and Adolescent Health, Department of Pediatrics, Medical School, 
University of Minnesota, 717 Delaware St SE, Minneapolis, MN 55414, USA; School 
of Nursing, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN, USA.
(6)School of Nursing, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN, USA.

This study examined associations between social-emotional intelligence (SEI) and 
two measures of violence perpetration (relational aggression and physical 
violence) in a cross-sectional sample of high-risk adolescent girls (N = 253). 
We evaluated three aspects of SEI: stress management, intrapersonal, and 
interpersonal skills. Results of a multiple linear regression model accounting 
for participants' age, race/ethnicity, and experiences of relational aggression 
victimization indicated that girls with better stress management skills were 
less likely to perpetrate relational aggression. A parallel model for 
perpetration of physical violence showed a similar pattern of results. Study 
findings suggest that SEI, and stress management skills in particular, may 
protect adolescent girls - including those who have been victims of violence - 
from perpetrating relational aggression and physical violence. Interventions 
that build adolescent girls' social and emotional skills may be an effective 
strategy for reducing their perpetration of violence.

Copyright © 2013 The Foundation for Professionals in Services for Adolescents. 
Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.adolescence.2013.10.012
PMCID: PMC3906435
PMID: 24331306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


256. Dev Cogn Neurosci. 2014 Jan;7:65-75. doi: 10.1016/j.dcn.2013.11.003. Epub 2013 
Nov 25.

White matter connectivity and aerobic fitness in male adolescents.

Herting MM(1), Colby JB(2), Sowell ER(3), Nagel BJ(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Keck School of Medicine at USC/Children's Hospital 
of Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, USA. Electronic address: mherting@chla.usc.edu.
(2)David Geffen School of Medicine, University of California Los Angeles (UCLA), 
Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, Keck School of Medicine at USC/Children's Hospital 
of Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, Oregon Health & Science University, 3181 SW Sam 
Jackson Park Road, Mail-Code: DC7P, Portland, OR 97239, USA; Department of 
Behavioral Neuroscience, Oregon Health & Science University, 3181 SW Sam Jackson 
Park Road, Mail-Code: DC7P, Portland, OR 97239, USA.

Exercise has been shown to have positive effects on the brain and behavior 
throughout various stages of the lifespan. However, little is known about the 
impact of exercise on neurodevelopment during the adolescent years, particularly 
with regard to white matter microstructure, as assessed by diffusion tensor 
imaging (DTI). Both tract-based spatial statistics (TBSS) and tractography-based 
along-tract statistics were utilized to examine the relationship between white 
matter microstructure and aerobic exercise in adolescent males, ages 15-18. 
Furthermore, we examined the data by both (1) grouping individuals based on 
aerobic fitness self-reports (high fit (HF) vs. low fit (LF)), and (2) using VO2 
peak as a continuous variable across the entire sample. Results showed that HF 
youth had an overall higher number of streamline counts compared to LF peers, 
which was driven by group differences in corticospinal tract (CST) and anterior 
corpus callosum (Fminor). In addition, VO2 peak was negatively related to FA in 
the left CST. Together, these results suggest that aerobic fitness relates to 
white matter connectivity and microstructure in tracts carrying frontal and 
motor fibers during adolescence. Furthermore, the current study highlights the 
importance of considering the environmental factor of aerobic exercise when 
examining adolescent brain development.

Copyright © 2013 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dcn.2013.11.003
PMCID: PMC4020709
PMID: 24333926 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


257. Prog Lipid Res. 2014 Jan;53:1-17. doi: 10.1016/j.plipres.2013.10.002. Epub 2013 
Oct 24.

Long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (LCPUFA) from genesis to senescence: the 
influence of LCPUFA on neural development, aging, and neurodegeneration.

Janssen CI(1), Kiliaan AJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy, Radboud University Medical Center, Donders Institute 
for Brain, Cognition, and Behaviour, PO Box 9101, 6500 HB Nijmegen, The 
Netherlands. Electronic address: Carola.Janssen@radboudumc.nl.
(2)Department of Anatomy, Radboud University Medical Center, Donders Institute 
for Brain, Cognition, and Behaviour, PO Box 9101, 6500 HB Nijmegen, The 
Netherlands. Electronic address: Amanda.Kiliaan@radboudumc.nl.

Many clinical and animal studies demonstrate the importance of long-chain 
polyunsaturated fatty acids (LCPUFA) in neural development and 
neurodegeneration. This review will focus on involvement of LCPUFA from genesis 
to senescence. The LCPUFA docosahexaenoic acid and arachidonic acid are 
important components of neuronal membranes, while eicosapentaenoic acid, 
docosahexaenoic acid, and arachidonic acid also affect cardiovascular health and 
inflammation. In neural development, LCPUFA deficiency can lead to severe 
disorders like schizophrenia and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. 
Perinatal LCPUFA supplementation demonstrated beneficial effects in neural 
development in humans and rodents resulting in improved cognition and 
sensorimotor integration. In normal aging, the effect of LCPUFA on prevention of 
cognitive impairment will be discussed. LCPUFA are important for neuronal 
membrane integrity and function, and also contribute in prevention of brain 
hypoperfusion. Cerebral perfusion can be compromised as result of obesity, 
cerebrovascular disease, hypertension, or diabetes mellitus type 2. Last, we 
will focus on the role of LCPUFA in most common neurodegenerative diseases like 
Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease. These disorders are characterized 
by impaired cognition and connectivity and both clinical and animal 
supplementation studies have shown the potential of LCPUFA to decrease 
neurodegeneration and inflammation. This review shows that LCPUFA are essential 
throughout life.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.plipres.2013.10.002
PMID: 24334113 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


258. Neurosurgery. 2014 Mar;74(3):235-43; discussion 243-4. doi: 
10.1227/NEU.0000000000000265.

Tracking and sustaining improvement initiatives: leveraging quality dashboards 
to lead change in a neurosurgical department.

McLaughlin N(1), Afsar-Manesh N, Ragland V, Buxey F, Martin NA.

Author information:
(1)*Department of Neurosurgery and ‡Department of Medicine, David Geffen School 
of Medicine, University of California, Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California.

Increasingly, hospitals and physicians are becoming acquainted with business 
intelligence strategies and tools to improve quality of care. In 2007, the 
University of California Los Angeles (UCLA) Department of Neurosurgery created a 
quality dashboard to help manage process measures and outcomes and ultimately to 
enhance clinical performance and patient care. At that time, the dashboard was 
in a platform that required data to be entered manually. It was then reviewed 
monthly to allow the department to make informed decisions. In 2009, the 
department leadership worked with the UCLA Medical Center to align mutual 
quality-improvement priorities. The content of the dashboard was redesigned to 
include 3 areas of priorities: quality and safety, patient satisfaction, and 
efficiency and use. Throughout time, the neurosurgery quality dashboard has been 
recognized for its clarity and its success in helping management direct 
improvement strategies and monitor impact. We describe the creation and design 
of the neurosurgery quality dashboard at UCLA, summarize the evolution of its 
assembly process, and illustrate how it can be used as a powerful tool of 
improvement and change. The potential challenges and future directions of this 
business intelligence tool are also discussed.

DOI: 10.1227/NEU.0000000000000265
PMID: 24335812 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


259. Eur Child Adolesc Psychiatry. 2014 Dec;23(12):1149-60. doi: 
10.1007/s00787-013-0498-3. Epub 2013 Dec 15.

Paediatric European Risperidone Studies (PERS): context, rationale, objectives, 
strategy, and challenges.

Glennon J(1), Purper-Ouakil D, Bakker M, Zuddas A, Hoekstra P, Schulze U, 
Castro-Fornieles J, Santosh PJ, Arango C, Kölch M, Coghill D, Flamarique I, 
Penzol MJ, Wan M, Murray M, Wong IC, Danckaerts M, Bonnot O, Falissard B, Masi 
G, Fegert JM, Vicari S, Carucci S, Dittmann RW, Buitelaar JK; PERS Consortium.

Collaborators: Vinkenvleugel L, Autric RL, Urquhart G, Curran S, Berg R, 
Banaschewski T, Haege A, Cohen D, Raffin M, Pina-Camacho L, Calvo A, Moron G, 
Schlanser S, Aslan S, Keller F, Tan J, Drent C, Brovedani P, Steyaert J, Morer 
A, Treweek S, Bahadori S, Peyre H, Hubert A, Balia C, Baeza I, Lazaro L, Hogarth 
F, MacFarlane S, Patel E, Seth S, Nowotny E, Sala R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cognitive Neuroscience, Donders Institute for Brain, Cognition 
and Behavior, RUNMC Radboud University Nijmegen Medical Center, Nijmegen, The 
Netherlands, J.Glennon@donders.ru.nl.

In children and adolescents with conduct disorder (CD), pharmacotherapy is 
considered when non-pharmacological interventions do not improve symptoms and 
functional impairment. Risperidone, a second-generation antipsychotic is 
increasingly prescribed off-label in this indication, but its efficacy and 
tolerability is poorly studied in CD, especially in young people with normal 
intelligence. The Paediatric European Risperidone Studies (PERS) include a 
series of trials to assess short-term efficacy, tolerability and maintenance 
effects of risperidone in children and adolescents with CD and normal 
intelligence as well as long-term tolerability in a 2-year pharmacovigilance. In 
addition to its core studies, secondary PERS analyses will examine moderators of 
drug effects. As PERS is a large-scale academic project involving a 
collaborative network of expert centres from different countries, it is expected 
that results will lead to strengthen the evidence base for the use of 
risperidone in CD and improve standards of care. Challenging issues faced by the 
PERS consortium are described to facilitate future developments in paediatric 
neuropsychopharmacology.

DOI: 10.1007/s00787-013-0498-3
PMCID: PMC4246122
PMID: 24337449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


260. J Abnorm Child Psychol. 2014 Aug;42(6):953-66. doi: 10.1007/s10802-013-9832-y.

Executive functioning and non-verbal intelligence as predictors of bullying in 
early elementary school.

Verlinden M(1), Veenstra R, Ghassabian A, Jansen PW, Hofman A, Jaddoe VW, 
Verhulst FC, Tiemeier H.

Author information:
(1)The Generation R Study Group, Erasmus University Medical Center, Rotterdam, 
The Netherlands.

Executive function and intelligence are negatively associated with aggression, 
yet the role of executive function has rarely been examined in the context of 
school bullying. We studied whether different domains of executive function and 
non-verbal intelligence are associated with bullying involvement in early 
elementary school. The association was examined in a population-based sample of 
1,377 children. At age 4 years we assessed problems in inhibition, shifting, 
emotional control, working memory and planning/organization, using a validated 
parental questionnaire (the BRIEF-P). Additionally, we determined child 
non-verbal IQ at age 6 years. Bullying involvement as a bully, victim or a 
bully-victim in grades 1-2 of elementary school (mean age 7.7 years) was 
measured using a peer-nomination procedure. Individual bullying scores were 
based on the ratings by multiple peers (on average 20 classmates). Analyses were 
adjusted for various child and maternal socio-demographic and psychosocial 
covariates. Child score for inhibition problems was associated with the risk of 
being a bully (OR per SD = 1.35, 95%CI: 1.09-1.66), victim (OR per SD = 1.21, 
95%CI: 1.00-1.45) and a bully-victim (OR per SD = 1.55, 95%CI: 1.10-2.17). 
Children with higher non-verbal IQ were less likely to be victims (OR = 0.99, 
95%CI: 0.98-1.00) and bully-victims (OR = 95%CI: 0.93-0.98, respectively). In 
conclusion, our study showed that peer interactions may be to some extent 
influenced by children's executive function and non-verbal intelligence. Future 
studies should examine whether training executive function skills can reduce 
bullying involvement and improve the quality of peer relationships.

DOI: 10.1007/s10802-013-9832-y
PMID: 24337736 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


261. Curr Cardiol Rep. 2014 Jan;16(1):441. doi: 10.1007/s11886-013-0441-8.

Artificial intelligence in medicine and cardiac imaging: harnessing big data and 
advanced computing to provide personalized medical diagnosis and treatment.

Dilsizian SE(1), Siegel EL.

Author information:
(1)University of Maryland School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.

Although advances in information technology in the past decade have come in 
quantum leaps in nearly every aspect of our lives, they seem to be coming at a 
slower pace in the field of medicine. However, the implementation of electronic 
health records (EHR) in hospitals is increasing rapidly, accelerated by the 
meaningful use initiatives associated with the Center for Medicare & Medicaid 
Services EHR Incentive Programs. The transition to electronic medical records 
and availability of patient data has been associated with increases in the 
volume and complexity of patient information, as well as an increase in medical 
alerts, with resulting "alert fatigue" and increased expectations for rapid and 
accurate diagnosis and treatment. Unfortunately, these increased demands on 
health care providers create greater risk for diagnostic and therapeutic errors. 
In the near future, artificial intelligence (AI)/machine learning will likely 
assist physicians with differential diagnosis of disease, treatment options 
suggestions, and recommendations, and, in the case of medical imaging, with cues 
in image interpretation. Mining and advanced analysis of "big data" in health 
care provide the potential not only to perform "in silico" research but also to 
provide "real time" diagnostic and (potentially) therapeutic recommendations 
based on empirical data. "On demand" access to high-performance computing and 
large health care databases will support and sustain our ability to achieve 
personalized medicine. The IBM Jeopardy! Challenge, which pitted the best 
all-time human players against the Watson computer, captured the imagination of 
millions of people across the world and demonstrated the potential to apply AI 
approaches to a wide variety of subject matter, including medicine. The 
combination of AI, big data, and massively parallel computing offers the 
potential to create a revolutionary way of practicing evidence-based, 
personalized medicine.

DOI: 10.1007/s11886-013-0441-8
PMID: 24338557 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


262. Pediatr Obes. 2014 Dec;9(6):419-26. doi: 10.1111/j.2047-6310.2013.00203.x. Epub 
2013 Dec 11.

IQ and obesity in adolescence: a population-based, cross-sectional study.

Goldberg S(1), Werbeloff N, Fruchter E, Portuguese S, Davidson M, Weiser M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Sheba Medical Center, Ramat Gan, Israel.

WHAT IS ALREADY KNOWN ABOUT THIS SUBJECT: Low IQ is associated with high BMI in 
childhood. There are inconsistent findings on the association between low SES 
and high BMI. Youth with low IQ have been reported to have poorer health 
behaviors, such as poor nutrition and less physical activity.
WHAT THIS STUDY ADDS: Low IQ is significantly associated with obesity for both 
male and female adolescents, though more strongly for female adolescents. 
Physical activity has a mediating effect on the association between low IQ and 
obesity among both male and female adolescents, though more strongly for male 
adolescents. The association between low IQ and obesity is strongest among 
adolescents from high SES backgrounds.
BACKGROUND: Previous studies have shown an association between low intelligence 
quotient (IQ), high body mass index and low socioeconomic status (SES).
OBJECTIVES: This study examined the cross-sectional association between IQ and 
obesity, exploring the roles of gender, SES and physical activity in this 
association.
METHODS: Subjects were 235,663 male and 169,259 female adolescents assessed by 
the Israeli military draft board.
RESULTS: Low IQ was significantly associated with increased odds of obesity 
among male (odds ratio [OR] = 1.44, 95% confidence interval [CI] = 1.36-1.52) 
and female adolescents (OR = 1.61, 95% CI = 1.51-1.73); this association was 
significantly stronger among female adolescents. Sobel tests indicated that 
physical activity had a significant mediating effect on this association for 
male and female adolescents, although more strongly for male adolescents. 
Dividing the sample according to SES, the association between low IQ and obesity 
was strongest in the high SES group (male adolescents: OR = 1.26, 95% 
CI = 1.10-1.43, female adolescents: OR = 1.61, 95% CI = 1.38-1.89), even when 
controlling for physical activity.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings suggest that low IQ is associated with increased odds 
of obesity, particularly in female adolescents and in adolescents with high SES. 
Physical activity has a mediating effect on this association, although more 
strongly for male than for female adolescents. Public health measures on 
decreasing obesity might focus on these groups.

© 2013 The Authors. Pediatric Obesity © 2013 International Association for the 
Study of Obesity.

DOI: 10.1111/j.2047-6310.2013.00203.x
PMID: 24339055 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


263. Autism Res. 2014 Jun;7(3):305-13. doi: 10.1002/aur.1350. Epub 2013 Dec 12.

Gut permeability in autism spectrum disorders.

Dalton N(1), Chandler S, Turner C, Charman T, Pickles A, Loucas T, Simonoff E, 
Sullivan P, Baird G.

Author information:
(1)WellChild Laboratory, Evelina Children's Hospital & King's College London, 
London.

OBJECTIVE: To test whether gut permeability is increased in autism spectrum 
disorders (ASD) by evaluating gut permeability in a population-derived cohort of 
children with ASD compared with age- and intelligence quotient-matched controls 
without ASD but with special educational needs (SEN).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: One hundred thirty-three children aged 10-14 years, 103 
with ASD and 30 with SEN, were given an oral test dose of mannitol and lactulose 
and urine collected for 6 hr. Gut permeability was assessed by measuring the 
urine lactulose/mannitol (L/M) recovery ratio by electrospray mass 
spectrometry-mass spectrometry. The ASD group was subcategorized for comparison 
into those without (n = 83) and with (n = 20) regression.
RESULTS: There was no significant difference in L/M recovery ratio (mean (95% 
confidence interval)) between the groups with ASD: 0.015 (0.013-0.018), and SEN: 
0.014 (0.009-0.019), nor in lactulose, mannitol, or creatinine recovery. No 
significant differences were observed in any parameter for the regressed versus 
non-regressed ASD groups. Results were consistent with previously published 
normal ranges. Eleven children (9/103 = 8.7% ASD and 2/30 = 6.7% SEN) had L/M 
recovery ratio > 0.03 (the accepted normal range cut-off), of whom two (one ASD 
and one SEN) had more definitely pathological L/M recovery ratios > 0.04.
CONCLUSION: There is no statistically significant group difference in small 
intestine permeability in a population cohort-derived group of children with ASD 
compared with a control group with SEN. Of the two children (one ASD and one 
SEN) with an L/M recovery ratio of > 0.04, one had undiagnosed asymptomatic 
celiac disease (ASD) and the other (SEN) past extensive surgery for 
gastroschisis.

© 2013 International Society for Autism Research, Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/aur.1350
PMID: 24339339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


264. Emotion. 2014 Apr;14(2):358-374. doi: 10.1037/a0034755. Epub 2013 Dec 16.

Emotional intelligence is a second-stratum factor of intelligence: evidence from 
hierarchical and bifactor models.

MacCann C(1), Joseph DL(2), Newman DA(3), Roberts RD(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Psychology.
(2)Department of Psychology, University of Central Florida.
(3)Department of Psychology.
(4)Center for Academic and Workforce Readiness and Success, Research and 
Development, Educational Testing Service.

This article examines the status of emotional intelligence (EI) within the 
structure of human cognitive abilities. To evaluate whether EI is a 2nd-stratum 
factor of intelligence, data were fit to a series of structural models involving 
3 indicators each for fluid intelligence, crystallized intelligence, 
quantitative reasoning, visual processing, and broad retrieval ability, as well 
as 2 indicators each for emotion perception, emotion understanding, and emotion 
management. Unidimensional, multidimensional, hierarchical, and bifactor 
solutions were estimated in a sample of 688 college and community college 
students. Results suggest adequate fit for 2 models: (a) an oblique 8-factor 
model (with 5 traditional cognitive ability factors and 3 EI factors) and (b) a 
hierarchical solution (with cognitive g at the highest level and EI representing 
a 2nd-stratum factor that loads onto g at λ = .80). The acceptable relative fit 
of the hierarchical model confirms the notion that EI is a group factor of 
cognitive ability, marking the expression of intelligence in the emotion domain. 
The discussion proposes a possible expansion of Cattell-Horn-Carroll theory to 
include EI as a 2nd-stratum factor of similar standing to factors such as fluid 
intelligence and visual processing.

DOI: 10.1037/a0034755
PMID: 24341786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


265. Psychol Med. 2014 Jul;44(10):2199-211. doi: 10.1017/S0033291713002912. Epub 2013 
Dec 17.

Bullying in elementary school and psychotic experiences at 18 years: a 
longitudinal, population-based cohort study.

Wolke D(1), Lereya ST(1), Fisher HL(2), Lewis G(3), Zammit S(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology and Warwick Medical School, Division of Mental 
Health and Wellbeing,University of Warwick,Coventry,UK.
(2)MRC Social, Genetic and Developmental Psychiatry Centre, Institute of 
Psychiatry,King's College London,London,UK.
(3)Mental Health Sciences Unit,University College London,London,UK.

BACKGROUND: Victims of bullying are at risk for psychotic experiences in early 
adolescence. It is unclear if this elevated risk extends into late adolescence. 
The aim of this study was to test whether bullying perpetration and 
victimization in elementary school predict psychotic experiences in late 
adolescence.
METHOD: The current study is based on the Avon Longitudinal Study of Parents and 
Children (ALSPAC), a prospective community-based study. A total of 4720 subjects 
with bullying perpetration and victimization were repeatedly assessed between 
the ages of 8 and 11 years by child and mother reports. Suspected or definite 
psychotic experiences were assessed with the Psychosis-Like Symptoms 
semi-structured interview at age 18 years.
RESULTS: Controlling for child's gender, intelligence quotient at age 8 years, 
childhood behavioural and emotional problems, and also depression symptoms and 
psychotic experiences in early adolescence, victims [child report at 10 years: 
odds ratio (OR) 2.4, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.6-3.4; mother report: OR 
1.6, 95% CI 1.1-2.3], bully/victims (child report at 10 years: OR 3.1, 95% CI 
1.7-5.8; mother: OR 2.9, 95% CI 1.7-5.0) and bullies (child report at 10 years: 
OR 4.9, 95% CI 1.3-17.7; mother: OR 1.2, 95% CI 0.46-3.1, n.s.) had a higher 
prevalence of psychotic experiences at age 18 years. Path analysis revealed that 
the association between peer victimization in childhood and psychotic 
experiences at age 18 years was only partially mediated by psychotic or 
depression symptoms in early adolescence.
CONCLUSIONS: Involvement in bullying, whether as victim, bully/victim or bully, 
may increase the risk of developing psychotic experiences in adolescence. Health 
professionals should ask routinely during consultations with children about 
their bullying of and by peers.

DOI: 10.1017/S0033291713002912
PMID: 24342773 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


266. J Autism Dev Disord. 2014 May;44(5):993-1007. doi: 10.1007/s10803-013-2020-7.

Comprehensive comparison of self-administered questionnaires for measuring 
quantitative autistic traits in adults.

Nishiyama T(1), Suzuki M, Adachi K, Sumi S, Okada K, Kishino H, Sakai S, Kamio 
Y, Kojima M, Suzuki S, Kanne SM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Aichi Medical University, 1-1 Yazako, Nagakute, 
Aichi, 480-1195, Japan, nishiyama@minos.ocn.ne.jp.

Comment in
    J Autism Dev Disord. 2014 Aug;44(8):2077-8.
    J Autism Dev Disord. 2014 Aug;44(8):2079-80.

We comprehensively compared all available questionnaires for measuring 
quantitative autistic traits (QATs) in terms of reliability and construct 
validity in 3,147 non-clinical and 60 clinical subjects with normal 
intelligence. We examined four full-length forms, the Subthreshold Autism Trait 
Questionnaire (SATQ), the Broader Autism Phenotype Questionnaire, the Social 
Responsiveness Scale2-Adult Self report (SRS2-AS), and the Autism-Spectrum 
Quotient (AQ). The SRS2-AS and the AQ each had several short forms that we also 
examined, bringing the total to 11 forms. Though all QAT questionnaires showed 
acceptable levels of test-retest reliability, the AQ and SRS2-AS, including 
their short forms, exhibited poor internal consistency and discriminant 
validity, respectively. The SATQ excelled in terms of classical test theory and 
due to its short length.

DOI: 10.1007/s10803-013-2020-7
PMID: 24342972 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


267. Pediatrics. 2014 Jan;133(1):63-70. doi: 10.1542/peds.2013-1187. Epub 2013 Dec 
16.

Antenatal and postnatal growth and 5-year cognitive outcome in very preterm 
infants.

Leppänen M(1), Lapinleimu H, Lind A, Matomäki J, Lehtonen L, Haataja L, Rautava 
P; PIPARI Study Group.

Collaborators: Äärimaa T, Ekblad M, Ekblad S, Ekholm E, Huhtala M, Kero P, Korja 
R, Kujari H, Manninen H, Maunu J, Munck P, Niemi P, Palo P, Parkkola R, Piha J, 
Rautava L, Rikalainen H, Saarinen K, Saunavaara V, Savonlahti E, Setänen S, 
Sillanpää M, Stolt S, Tuomikoski-Koiranen P, Ylijoki M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics, Turku University Hospital, Kiinamyllynkatu 4-8, PO 
Box 52, 20521, Turku, Finland. marika.leppanen@utu.fi.

OBJECTIVES: To study how antenatal growth affects cognitive outcome in very 
preterm infants and to determine whether there is an association between growth 
in any particular time period between birth and 5 years of age and cognitive 
outcome. Small for gestational age (SGA) and non-SGA infants were analyzed 
separately, because antenatal growth may affect postnatal growth.
METHODS: Very low birth weight (<1501 g) infants born between 2001 and 2006 and 
infants born at <32 gestational weeks between 2004 and 2006 who were treated at 
Turku University Hospital (n = 181) were followed. Weight, length, and head 
circumference (HC) of the infants were measured at 9 time points between birth 
and 5 years. The growth was determined as a z score change between measurement 
points. Cognitive development was assessed at 5 years of age with the Wechsler 
Preschool and Primary Scales of Intelligence-Revised. The association between 
growth and full-scale IQ (FSIQ) was studied.
RESULTS: Growth in length and height was not associated with 5-year cognitive 
outcome. However, weight (r = 0.18, P = .04) and HC growth (r = 0.25, P = .01) 
between birth and 2 years of corrected age correlated to FSIQ in non-SGA 
children. In SGA children, HC growth (r = 0.33, P = .03) around term age 
correlated to FSIQ.
CONCLUSIONS: Cognitive outcome was similar in SGA and non-SGA very preterm 
infants. Growth affected cognition positively in both subgroups, but the 
critical time period was different.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.2013-1187
PMID: 24344103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


268. Am J Perinatol. 2014 Nov;31(10):845-50. doi: 10.1055/s-0033-1363164. Epub 2013 
Dec 17.

High aspartate aminotransferase level predicts poor neurodevelopmental outcome 
in infants with meconium aspiration syndrome.

Chen IL(1), Ou-Yang MC(1), Chen FS(1), Chung MY(1), Chen CC(1), Huang HC(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Neonatology, Department of Pediatrics, Kaohsiung Chang Gung 
Memorial Hospital, Chang Gung University College of Medicine, Kaohsiung, Taiwan.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of our study is to clarify the perinatal predictive factors 
of meconium aspiration syndrome (MAS) with neurodevelopmental delay (ND) in 
infants.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In this retrospective study, data were collected from the 
infants born between 1990 and 2008. They all had primary diagnosis of MAS. 
Multivariable analyzed perinatal predictive factors of MAS with ND. The 
developmental status of these infants was followed at least 2 years with the 
Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children.
RESULTS: A total of 114 surviving babies met the criteria of MAS. Six babies 
were defined as ND group. Lower 5-minute Apgar score and diastolic blood 
pressure were significantly related to the ND group. Elevated asparatate 
aminotransferase (AST), nucleated red blood cells, and white blood cells at the 
time of admission were significantly high in ND group. Furthermore, AST had area 
under the receiver operating characteristic curve of 0.879, (95% confidence 
interval: 0.801, 0.934), p < 0.0001. At 96 mg/dL, it had 83.33% sensitivity, 
80.81% specificity, and negative predictive value of 98.8. Multivariable 
logistic regression analysis revealed AST was the only significant predictive 
factor for MAS with ND.
CONCLUSION: Early intervention should be recommended in infants having MAS with 
high AST level at birth for improving their neurodevelopmental outcomes.

Thieme Medical Publishers 333 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10001, USA.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0033-1363164
PMID: 24347255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


269. Epilepsy Behav. 2014 Feb;31:50-5. doi: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2013.11.013. Epub 2013 
Dec 15.

Neuropsychological abnormalities in children with the Panayiotopoulos syndrome 
point to parietal lobe dysfunction.

Lopes R(1), Simões MR(2), Leal AJ(3).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Psychology and Educational Sciences, University of Coimbra, 
Coimbra, Portugal. Electronic address: r.lopes@clix.pt.
(2)Faculty of Psychology and Educational Sciences, University of Coimbra, 
Coimbra, Portugal.
(3)Instituto Universitário de Lisboa (ISCTE-IUL), Cis-IUL, Lisboa, Portugal; 
Department of Neurophysiology, Centro Hospitalar Psiquiatrico de Lisboa, Lisbon, 
Portugal; Department of Pediatric Neurology, Centro Hospitalar Lisboa Central, 
Portugal.

Panayiotopoulos syndrome (PS) is a common epilepsy syndrome associated with rare 
clinical seizures and unknown localization of the epileptogenic area. Despite 
findings of normal development in patients with PS, recent neuropsychological 
studies point to subtle and diverse cognitive impairments. No well-outlined 
hypothesis about the localization of the brain dysfunction responsible for these 
impairments has been proposed. We further explored the cognitive dysfunctions in 
PS and made inferences on the most likely anatomical localization of brain 
impairment. A group of 19 patients (aged 6-12) with PS was rated according to 
spike activity and lateralization. The patients were submitted to a 
neuropsychological evaluation to assess general intelligence, memory, language, 
visual-perceptual abilities, attention, and executive functions. Using 
35-channel scalp EEG recordings, the N170 face-evoked event-related potential 
(ERP) was obtained to assess the functional integrity of the ventral pathway. 
All patients with PS showed normal IQ but subtle and consistent neurocognitive 
impairments. Namely, we found abnormalities in the copy task of the 
Rey-Osterrieth Complex Figure and in the Narrative Memory Test. There was no 
correlation between neuropsychological impairments with spike activity and 
hemispheric spike lateralization. The N170 ERP was normal in all patients except 
for one. Our neuropsychological findings demonstrate impairments in 
visual-perceptual abilities and in semantic processing. These findings, paired 
with the absence of occipital lobe dysfunction in all neuropsychological studies 
of PS performed to this date, support the existence of parietal lobe 
dysfunction.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2013.11.013
PMID: 24351962 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


270. J Nurs Care Qual. 2014 Apr-Jun;29(2):174-81. doi: 10.1097/NCQ.0000000000000039.

The relationship of bedside nurses' emotional intelligence with quality of care.

Adams KL(1), Iseler JI.

Author information:
(1)College of Nursing at Michigan State University, East Lansing (Ms Adams), and 
Frederik Meijer Heart and Vascular Institute, Spectrum Health Hospitals, Grand 
Rapids (Ms Iseler), Michigan.

Emotional intelligence, a predictor of productivity and success, may impact 
behaviors responsible for quality of care. This study examined if emotional 
intelligence of units' bedside nurses is related to the quality of care 
delivered to the patients. In this study, emotional intelligence was found to be 
correlated to the number of Clostridium difficile infections, MRSA infections, 
patient falls with injury, and pressure ulcer screenings (P < .001) in the 
inpatient acute care setting.

DOI: 10.1097/NCQ.0000000000000039
PMID: 24356579 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


271. Psychol Sci. 2014 Feb;25(2):619-25. doi: 10.1177/0956797613510949. Epub 2013 Dec 
19.

Self-affirmation among the poor: cognitive and behavioral implications.

Hall CC(1), Zhao J, Shafir E.

Author information:
(1)1Evans School of Public Affairs, University of Washington.

The poor are universally stigmatized. The stigma of poverty includes being 
perceived as incompetent and feeling shunned and disrespected. It can lead to 
cognitive distancing, diminish cognitive performance, and cause the poor to 
forego beneficial programs. In the present research, we examined how 
self-affirmation can mitigate the stigma of poverty through randomized field 
experiments involving low-income individuals at an inner-city soup kitchen. 
Because of low literacy levels, we used an oral rather than written affirmation 
procedure, in which participants verbally described a personal experience that 
made them feel successful or proud. Compared with nonaffirmed participants, 
affirmed individuals exhibited better executive control, higher fluid 
intelligence, and a greater willingness to avail themselves of benefits 
programs. The effects were not driven by elevated positive mood, and the same 
intervention did not affect the performance of wealthy participants. The 
findings suggest that self-affirmation can improve the cognitive performance and 
decisions of the poor, and it may have important policy implications.

DOI: 10.1177/0956797613510949
PMID: 24357617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


272. Appl Ergon. 2014 Jul;45(4):967-75. doi: 10.1016/j.apergo.2013.11.012. Epub 2013 
Dec 18.

Safety intelligence: an exploration of senior managers' characteristics.

Fruhen LS(1), Mearns KJ(2), Flin R(2), Kirwan B(3).

Author information:
(1)University of Aberdeen, King's College, School of Psychology, Old Aberdeen 
AB24 3UB, Scotland, UK. Electronic address: l.fruhen@abdn.ac.uk.
(2)University of Aberdeen, King's College, School of Psychology, Old Aberdeen 
AB24 3UB, Scotland, UK.
(3)EUROCONTROL, Experimental Centre, Centre Bois des Bordes, 91220 
Brétigny-sur-Orge, France.

Senior managers can have a strong influence on organisational safety. But little 
is known about which of their personal attributes support their impact on 
safety. In this paper, we introduce the concept of 'safety intelligence' as 
related to senior managers' ability to develop and enact safety policies and 
explore possible characteristics related to it in two studies. Study 1 (N = 76) 
involved direct reports to chief executive officers (CEOs) of European air 
traffic management (ATM) organisations, who completed a short questionnaire 
asking about characteristics and behaviours that are ideal for a CEO's influence 
on safety. Study 2 involved senior ATM managers (N = 9) in various positions in 
interviews concerning their day-to-day work on safety. Both studies indicated 
six attributes of senior managers as relevant for their safety intelligence, 
particularly, social competence and safety knowledge, followed by motivation, 
problem-solving, personality and interpersonal leadership skills. These results 
have recently been applied in guidance for safety management practices in a 
White Paper published by EUROCONTROL.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd and The Ergonomics Society. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.apergo.2013.11.012
PMID: 24359975 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


273. Prog Neuropsychopharmacol Biol Psychiatry. 2014 Apr 3;50:110-5. doi: 
10.1016/j.pnpbp.2013.12.010. Epub 2013 Dec 19.

Genetic modulation of working memory deficits by ankyrin 3 gene in 
schizophrenia.

Zhang C(1), Cai J(2), Zhang J(3), Li Z(4), Guo Z(3), Zhang X(5), Lu W(2), Zhang 
Y(2), Yuan A(6), Yu S(7), Fang Y(8).

Author information:
(1)Schizophrenia Program, Shanghai Mental Health Center, Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China; Key Laboratory of Animal Models 
and Human Disease Mechanisms of the Chinese Academy of Sciences & Yunnan 
Province, Kunming Institute of Zoology, Kunming, Yunnan, China.
(2)Schizophrenia Program, Shanghai Mental Health Center, Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(3)Tongde Hospital of Zhejiang Province, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China.
(4)Department of Neurology, Shanghai Changhai Hospital, Secondary Military 
Medical University, Shanghai, China.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, Tongji Hospital, Tongji University School of 
Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(6)Department of Genetics, Shanghai Mental Health Center, Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(7)Department of Genetics, Shanghai Mental Health Center, Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China. Electronic address: 
yushuny@yahoo.com.
(8)Division of Mood Disorders, Shanghai Mental Health Center, Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China. Electronic address: 
yirufang@aliyun.com.

Neuropsychological endophenotype approach is an emerging strategy in 
schizophrenia research to understand and identify the functional importance of 
genetically transmitted, brain-based deficits present in this disorder. 
Accumulating evidence indicated that working memory deficit is a core 
neuropsychological dysfunction in schizophrenia and a primary endophenotype 
indexing the liability to develop schizophrenia. Genetic variation in ankyrin 3 
gene (ANK3) is likely to have widespread cognitive effects. Our previous study 
has identified a significant association of ANK3 SNPs and schizophrenia. In this 
study, we aimed to examine whether the schizophrenia-risk SNPs within ANK3 may 
affect working memory deficits in schizophrenia patients. Herein, we assess the 
working memory performance in 163 patients with first-episode, 
antipsychotic-naïve schizophrenia and 42 sex, age-matched healthy subjects using 
N-back task. Two SNPs rs10761482 and rs10994336 were genotyped among the 
patients and 209 controls. Our results showed that schizophrenia patients showed 
significantly poorer performance than healthy controls on N-back task (ps<0.01). 
After adjusting for the scores of intelligence quotient, memory quotient and the 
demographic factors, there was a significant genotype effect of the rs10994336 
on the accuracy rate and reaction time of 2-back item (p=0.048 and 0.024, 
respectively). Post-hoc analyses showed that patients with rs10994336T/T 
genotype had significantly lower accuracy rate and more reaction time at 2-back 
task than those with T/C and C/C genotypes. The association of SNP rs10994336 
with schizophrenia was replicated in our sample (genotypic p=0.024 and allelic 
p=0.006). However, we did not find any significant association of rs10761482 
with schizophrenia and parameters in N-back task. Our results indicated that 
genetic variation within ANK3 may exert gene-specific modulating effects on 
working memory deficits in schizophrenia.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pnpbp.2013.12.010
PMID: 24361380 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


274. Res Dev Disabil. 2014 Feb;35(2):463-71. doi: 10.1016/j.ridd.2013.11.020. Epub 
2013 Dec 20.

Comparison of two nonverbal intelligence tests among children who are deaf or 
hard-of-hearing.

Phillips J(1), Wiley S(1), Barnard H(1), Meinzen-Derr J(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Developmental and Behavioral Pediatrics, Cincinnati Children's 
Hospital Medical Center, University of Cincinnati College of Medicine, 
Cincinnati, OH, United States.
(2)Division of Biostatistics and Epidemiology, Cincinnati Children's Hospital 
Medical Center, University of Cincinnati College of Medicine, Cincinnati, OH, 
United States. Electronic address: Jareen.Meinzen-Derr@cchmc.org.

The primary goal of the current study is to evaluate the concurrent validity of 
the Leiter International Performance Scale-Revised (Leiter-R Brief IQ) and 
Differential Ability Scales - Second Edition (DAS-II Nonverbal Reasoning Index) 
in a group of children who are deaf or hard-of-hearing. Knowing the breadth of 
cognitive tools appropriate for use in children who are deaf or hard-of-hearing 
is highly beneficial, given that clinical and school psychologists are often 
challenged to reliably assess cognitive functions in the context of hearing 
loss. Participants included 54 children between three and six years of age with 
permanent bilateral hearing loss. As part of the study, neurocognitive 
assessments were conducted by a pediatric neuropsychologist or licensed clinical 
psychologist with extensive experience administering assessments to children 
with developmental disabilities, including children with hearing loss. The 
Leiter-R Brief IQ score was similar to the DAS-II nonverbal reasoning index, 
with no significant difference in the mean scores across the two assessments. 
The severity of hearing loss was not correlated to either the Leiter-R or the 
DAS-II nonverbal IQ. Nearly a quarter of the children evaluated had meaningful 
intra-individual differences between scores on the Leiter-R and DAS-II that were 
more than one standard deviation from one another. Conducting accurate 
intellectual assessments in children who are deaf and hard-of-hearing is 
fundamental in determining and designing interventions and educational services. 
More comprehensive neuropsychological test batteries utilizing several tasks to 
assess a single domain (such as nonverbal reasoning) may be warranted for 
children who are deaf or hard-of-hearing.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ridd.2013.11.020
PMID: 24361815 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


275. Anal Chem. 2014 Jan 21;86(2):1210-4. doi: 10.1021/ac403386q. Epub 2014 Jan 8.

Isomerization kinetics of AT hook decapeptide solution structures.

Schenk ER(1), Ridgeway ME, Park MA, Leng F, Fernandez-Lima F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, Florida International University , 
11200 SW Eighth Street, AHC4-233, Miami, Florida 33199, United States.

The mammalian high mobility group protein HMGA2 contains three DNA binding 
motifs associated with many physiological functions including oncogenesis, 
obesity, stem cell youth, human height, and human intelligence. In the present 
paper, trapped ion mobility spectrometry-mass spectrometry (TIMS-MS) has been 
utilized to study the conformational dynamics of the third DNA binding motif 
using the "AT hook" decapeptide unit 
(Lys(1)-Arg(2)-Prol(3)-Arg(4)-Gly(5)-Arg(6)-Prol(7)-Arg(8)-Lys(9)-Trp(10), ATHP) 
as a function of the solvent state. Solvent state distributions were preserved 
during electrospray ion formation, and multiple IMS bands were identified for 
the [M + 2H](2+) and for the [M + 3H](3+) charge states. Conformational isomer 
interconversion rates were measured as a function of the trapping time for the 
[M + 2H](2+) and [M + 3H](3+) charge states. Candidate structures were proposed 
for all IMS bands observed. Protonation site, proline residue conformation, and 
side chain orientations were identified as the main motifs governing the 
conformational interconversion processes. Conformational dynamics from the 
solvent state distribution to the gas-phase "de-solvated" state distribution 
demonstrated that ATHP is "structured", and relative abundances are associated 
with the relative stability between the proposed conformers. The most stable 
ATHP [M + 2H](2+) conformation at the "de-solvated" state corresponds to the AT 
hook motif observed in AT-rich DNA regions.

DOI: 10.1021/ac403386q
PMCID: PMC3935383
PMID: 24364733 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


276. Schizophr Res. 2014 Feb;152(2-3):415-20. doi: 10.1016/j.schres.2013.11.002. Epub 
2013 Dec 21.

Subjects at Ultra High Risk for psychosis have 'heterogeneous' intellectual 
functioning profile: a multiple-case study.

Magaud E(1), Morvan Y(2), Rampazzo A(3), Alexandre C(3), Willard D(3), Gaillard 
R(3), Kazes M(4), Krebs MO(3).

Author information:
(1)Université Paris Descartes, PRES Paris Sorbonne Cité, INSERM, Laboratoire de 
Physiopathologie des Maladies Psychiatriques, Centre de Psychiatrie et 
Neurosciences, UMR 894, Paris, France; Hôpital Sainte-Anne, Centre d'évaluation 
des Jeunes Adultes et Adolescents (C'JAAD), Service Hospitalo-Universitaire, 
Faculté de Médecine Paris Descartes, Paris, France. Electronic address: 
emagaud@ucalgary.ca.
(2)Université Paris Descartes, PRES Paris Sorbonne Cité, INSERM, Laboratoire de 
Physiopathologie des Maladies Psychiatriques, Centre de Psychiatrie et 
Neurosciences, UMR 894, Paris, France; Laboratoire Cognition, Santé, 
Socialisation, C2S, EA6291, Université de Reims Champagne-Ardenne, France.
(3)Université Paris Descartes, PRES Paris Sorbonne Cité, INSERM, Laboratoire de 
Physiopathologie des Maladies Psychiatriques, Centre de Psychiatrie et 
Neurosciences, UMR 894, Paris, France; Hôpital Sainte-Anne, Centre d'évaluation 
des Jeunes Adultes et Adolescents (C'JAAD), Service Hospitalo-Universitaire, 
Faculté de Médecine Paris Descartes, Paris, France.
(4)Hôpital Sainte-Anne, Centre d'évaluation des Jeunes Adultes et Adolescents 
(C'JAAD), Service Hospitalo-Universitaire, Faculté de Médecine Paris Descartes, 
Paris, France.

In Ultra High Risk (UHR) studies, intellectual functioning is commonly assessed 
using premorbid IQ tools as a covariate. The aim of this study was to show that 
the use of the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale (WAIS) could yield accurate 
neuropsychological profiling and that an alternative approach such as a 
multiple-case study could be a more interesting way to isolate discrete 
cognitive processes in the early stage of illness. The studied population 
consisted of 198 adolescents and young adults (16-30 y.o.) referred to our 
outpatient clinic. After the CAARMS' interview, we defined 3 subgroups: UHR 
(N=104), First Episode (FE; N=30), and Help-Seekers (HS; N=64) who were neither 
UHR nor psychotic. Intellectual functioning was assessed by the WAIS-III (9 
subtests version) and 'heterogeneous' intellectual profiles were defined based 
on the existence of a 3-point difference in scoring at subtests constitutive of 
the same WAIS index. While UHR did not differ from FE or HS on WAIS' scores and 
sub-scores, the multiple-case study indicated a higher proportion of 
'heterogeneous' profiles in the Verbal Comprehension Index in the UHR sample 
than in FE and HS (p=0.04). The disease progression could heterogeneously impact 
on specific domains, in patterns depending on the stage of the illness. This 
approach exploring intra-subject WAIS performances might be more relevant than 
the use of global scores in detecting the subtle cognitive alteration of 
emerging psychosis.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.schres.2013.11.002
PMID: 24365404 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


277. Psychol Med. 2014 Jul;44(10):2163-76. doi: 10.1017/S0033291713002973. Epub 2013 
Dec 23.

Psychosis prevalence and physical, metabolic and cognitive co-morbidity: data 
from the second Australian national survey of psychosis.

Morgan VA(1), McGrath JJ(2), Jablensky A(3), Badcock JC(4), Waterreus A(1), Bush 
R(5), Carr V(6), Castle D(7), Cohen M(8), Galletly C(9), Harvey C(7), Hocking 
B(10), McGorry P(7), Neil AL(11), Saw S(12), Shah S(1), Stain HJ(13), Mackinnon 
A(14).

Author information:
(1)Neuropsychiatric Epidemiology Research Unit, School of Psychiatry and 
Clinical Neurosciences,The University of Western Australia,Crawley, 
WA,Australia.
(2)Queensland Brain Institute,The University of Queensland,Brisbane, 
QLD,Australia.
(3)Centre for Clinical Research in Neuropsychiatry, School of Psychiatry and 
Clinical Neurosciences,The University of Western Australia,Crawley, 
WA,Australia.
(4)School of Psychology,The University of Western Australia,Crawley,Western 
Australia.
(5)School of Population Health,The University of Queensland,Ipswich, 
QLD,Australia.
(6)School of Psychiatry,The University of New South Wales,Sydney, NSW,Australia.
(7)Department of Psychiatry,The University of Melbourne,Melbourne, 
VIC,Australia.
(8)Hunter New England Mental Health, Newcastle, NSW,Australia.
(9)School of Medicine,University of Adelaide,Adelaide, SA,Australia.
(10)SANE Australia, Melbourne, VIC,Australia.
(11)Menzies Research Institute Tasmania,University of Tasmania,Hobart,Australia.
(12)Australian Government Department of Health and Ageing, Canberra, 
ACT,Australia.
(13)Centre for Rural and Remote Mental Health,University of Newcastle,Newcastle, 
NSW,Australia.
(14)Orygen Youth Health Research Centre, Melbourne, VIC,Australia.

BACKGROUND: There are insufficient data from nationwide surveys on the 
prevalence of specific psychotic disorders and associated co-morbidities.
METHOD: The 2010 Australian national psychosis survey used a two-phase design to 
draw a representative sample of adults aged 18-64 years with psychotic disorders 
in contact with public treatment services from an estimated resident population 
of 1 464 923 adults. This paper is based on data from 1642 participants with an 
International Classification of Diseases (ICD)-10 psychotic disorder. Its aim is 
to present estimates of treated prevalence and lifetime morbid risk of 
psychosis, and to describe the cognitive, physical health and substance use 
profiles of participants.
RESULTS: The 1-month treated prevalence of psychotic disorders was 3.10 cases 
per 1000 population aged 18-64 years, not accounting for people solely accessing 
primary care services; lifetime morbid risk was 3.45 per 1000. Mean premorbid 
intelligence quotient was approximately 0.5 s.d.s below the population mean; 
current cognitive ability (measured with a digit symbol coding task) was 1.6 
s.d.s below the population mean. For both cognitive tests, higher scores were 
significantly associated with better independent functioning. The prevalence of 
the metabolic syndrome was high, affecting 60.8% of participants, and pervasive 
across diagnostic groups. Of the participants, two-thirds (65.9%) were current 
smokers, 47.4% were obese and 32.4% were sedentary. Of the participants, half 
(49.8%) had a lifetime history of alcohol abuse/dependence and 50.8% lifetime 
cannabis abuse/dependence.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings highlight the need for comprehensive, integrative 
models of recovery to maximize the potential for good health and quality of life 
for people with psychotic illness.

DOI: 10.1017/S0033291713002973
PMCID: PMC4045165
PMID: 24365456 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


278. Pediatr Crit Care Med. 2014 Mar;15(3):189-96. doi: 10.1097/PCC.0000000000000044.

Analgesia-sedation in PICU and neurological outcome: a secondary analysis of 
long-term neuropsychological follow-up in meningococcal septic shock survivors*.

van Zellem L(1), Utens EM, de Wildt SN, Vet NJ, Tibboel D, Buysse C.

Author information:
(1)1Division of Paediatric Intensive Care, Department of Paediatrics, Erasmus 
MC-Sophia Children's Hospital, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. 2Department of Child 
and Adolescent Psychiatry/Psychology, Erasmus MC-Sophia Children's Hospital, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

Comment in
    Pediatr Crit Care Med. 2014 Mar;15(3):264-6.

OBJECTIVES: To investigate whether analgesic and sedative drug use during PICU 
treatment is associated with long-term neurodevelopmental outcome in children 
who survived meningococcal septic shock.
DESIGN: This study concerned a secondary analysis of data from medical and 
psychological follow-up of a cross-sectional cohort of all consecutive surviving 
patients with septic shock and purpura requiring intensive care treatment 
between 1988 and 2001 at the Erasmus MC-Sophia Children's Hospital. At least 4 
years after PICU admission, these children showed impairments on several domains 
of neuropsychological functioning. In the present study, type, number, and dose 
of sedatives and analgesics were retrospectively evaluated.
SETTING: Tertiary care university hospital.
PATIENTS: Seventy-seven meningococcal septic shock survivors (median age, 2.1 
yr).
INTERVENTIONS: None.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Forty-five patients (58%) received one or more 
analgesic and/or sedative drugs during PICU admission, most commonly 
benzodiazepines (n = 39; 51%), followed by opioids (n = 23; 30%). In total, 12 
different kinds of analgesic or sedative drugs were given. The use and dose of 
opioids were significantly associated with poor test outcome on full-scale 
intelligence quotient (p = 0.02; Z = -2.28), verbal intelligence quotient (p = 
0.02; Z = -2.32), verbal intelligence quotient subtests (verbal comprehension [p 
= 0.01; Z = -2.56] and vocabulary [p = 0.01; Z = -2.45]), and visual 
attention/executive functioning (Trial Making Test part B) (p = 0.03; Z = 
-2.17). In multivariate analysis adjusting for patient and disease 
characteristics, the use of opioids remained significant on most 
neuropsychological tests.
CONCLUSIONS: The use of opioids during PICU admission was significantly 
associated with long-term adverse neuropsychological outcome independent of 
severity of illness scores in meningococcal septic shock survivors.

DOI: 10.1097/PCC.0000000000000044
PMID: 24366510 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


279. Neuroimage. 2014 Apr 15;90:117-27. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2013.12.030. Epub 
2013 Dec 22.

Left fronto-parietal white matter correlates with individual differences in 
children's ability to solve additions and multiplications: a tractography study.

Van Beek L(1), Ghesquière P(2), Lagae L(3), De Smedt B(4).

Author information:
(1)Parenting and Special Education, Faculty of Psychology and Educational 
Sciences, University of Leuven, Belgium. Electronic address: 
Leen.VanBeek@ppw.kuleuven.be.
(2)Parenting and Special Education, Faculty of Psychology and Educational 
Sciences, University of Leuven, Belgium. Electronic address: 
Pol.Ghesquiere@ppw.kuleuven.be.
(3)Department of Development and Regeneration, Biomedical Sciences Group, 
University of Leuven, Belgium. Electronic address: Lieven.Lagae@uzleuven.be.
(4)Parenting and Special Education, Faculty of Psychology and Educational 
Sciences, University of Leuven, Belgium. Electronic address: 
Bert.DeSmedt@ppw.kuleuven.be.

Functional neuroimaging data have pointed to the activation of a fronto-parietal 
network during calculation tasks, the activity of which is modulated by 
arithmetic operation and arithmetical competence. As the cortical brain regions 
of this network are distant, it is crucial to investigate the white matter 
connections between them and to examine how these connections are related to 
different arithmetic operations and individual differences in arithmetical 
competence. By using diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) tractography in eighteen 
12-year-olds, we tested whether white matter pathways connecting these distant 
regions were related to children's arithmetical competence and how this 
association was modulated by operation. For each child, we delineated the three 
subcomponents of the arcuate fasciculus, a bundle of pathways linking frontal 
and temporo-parietal regions that are commonly active during calculation tasks. 
Fractional anisotropy in the left anterior portion of the arcuate fasciculus was 
positively correlated with addition and multiplication, but not with subtraction 
and division, suggesting a specific role of this left anterior segment in the 
solution of those problems that are expected to be solved with fact retrieval. 
The observed correlation was not explained by age, intelligence and working 
memory. Follow-up control analyses using different types of reading measures 
revealed that the observed correlation only disappeared when measures that draw 
heavily on phonological processing, such as non-word reading, were controlled 
for, suggesting that the association between the left arcuate 
fasciculus-anterior and addition/multiplication reflects the involvement of 
phonological processing. These results are the first to demonstrate that 
individual differences in fronto-parietal white matter are associated with 
arithmetical competence in typically developing children of a very narrow age 
range and indicate that this association is modulated by arithmetic operation.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2013.12.030
PMID: 24368261 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


280. Environ Health Prev Med. 2014 May;19(3):194-9. doi: 10.1007/s12199-013-0374-2. 
Epub 2013 Dec 25.

A consecutive study on arsenic exposure and intelligence quotient (IQ) of 
children in Bangladesh.

Nahar MN(1), Inaoka T, Fujimura M.

Author information:
(1)The United Graduate School of Agricultural Sciences, Kagoshima University 
Allied to the Faculty of Agriculture, Saga University, 1 Honjo-machi, Saga City, 
Saga, 840-8502, Japan, shapla.ru@gmail.com.

OBJECTIVE: In a recent cross-sectional investigation, we reported the 
intellectual function of adolescents (aged 14 and 15 years) in Bangladesh who 
had been exposed to arsenic (As). Here, we report a consecutive investigation on 
the intelligence quotient (IQ) of 408 children who are living in the Sonargoan 
Thana of Bangladesh (two age groups: 9 and 10 years; 4 and 5 years) were exposed 
to high levels of As in the groundwater.
METHODS: Urine and water samples were collected to assess As exposure. The IQ of 
the children was estimated using the Raven's Standard Progressive Matrices and 
the Kaufman Brief Intelligence Test. Information on parents' socioeconomic 
status (SES) was collected as confounding factors.
RESULTS: The results indicate that As exposure was responsible for a lower IQ. 
The concentration of urinary As ([As]u) was associated with reduced intellectual 
function in a dose-response manner. A stronger association was found between 
reduced intellectual function (IQ) and [As]u than the level of As in the 
drinking water [As]w. There was no association between verbal IQ scores and 
[As]u of children in early childhood (aged 4 and 5 years).
CONCLUSION: Based on these results, we conclude that current levels of As in the 
urine ([As]u), which we considered to reflect recent exposure to As from all 
possible sources, including groundwater, food, among others, were negatively 
associated to the IQ of the children tested, and that this adverse effect of As 
may also gradually accumulate over time among the poor.

DOI: 10.1007/s12199-013-0374-2
PMCID: PMC4019759
PMID: 24368742 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


281. Psychiatry Res. 2014 Feb 28;215(2):424-8. doi: 10.1016/j.psychres.2013.12.001. 
Epub 2013 Dec 11.

Dysfunctional inhibitory control and impulsivity in Internet addiction.

Choi JS(1), Park SM(2), Roh MS(3), Lee JY(1), Park CB(4), Hwang JY(1), Gwak 
AR(4), Jung HY(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, SMG-SNU Boramae Medical Center, Seoul, Republic of 
Korea; Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Science, Seoul National 
University College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, SMG-SNU Boramae Medical Center, Seoul, Republic of 
Korea; Department of Advanced Education for Clinician-Scientists, Seoul National 
University College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Medicine, Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul, 
Republic of Korea.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, SMG-SNU Boramae Medical Center, Seoul, Republic of 
Korea.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, SMG-SNU Boramae Medical Center, Seoul, Republic of 
Korea; Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Science, Seoul National 
University College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea; Department of Advanced 
Education for Clinician-Scientists, Seoul National University College of 
Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea; Institute of Human Behavioral Medicine, 
Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea. 
Electronic address: hyjung@snu.ac.kr.

The purpose of this study was to explore a psychological profile of Internet 
addiction (IA) considering impulsivity as a key personality trait and as a key 
component of neuropsychological functioning. Twenty three subjects with IA 
(Young's Internet Addiction Test scores=70 or more) and 24 sex-, age-, and 
intelligence-matched healthy controls were enrolled. Participants filled out a 
questionnaire about trait impulsivity, the Trait Characteristic Inventory, 
depression, and anxiety. Next, we administered traditional neuropsychological 
tests including the Stroop et al. and computerized neuropsychological tests 
using the Cambridge Neuropsychological Test Automated Battery. The IA group 
exhibited more trait impulsivity than the healthy control group. They also 
scored higher for novelty seeking and harm avoidance. The IA group performed 
more poorly than the healthy control group in a computerized stop signal test, a 
test for inhibitory function and impulsivity; no group differences appeared for 
other neuropsychological tests. The IA group also scored higher for depression 
and anxiety, and lower for self-directedness and cooperativeness. In conclusion, 
individuals with IA exhibited impulsivity as a core personality trait and in 
their neuropsychological functioning.

© 2013 Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2013.12.001
PMID: 24370334 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


282. Int J Pediatr Otorhinolaryngol. 2014 Feb;78(2):198-208. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijporl.2013.10.048. Epub 2013 Nov 20.

Auditory processing disorders: relationship to cognitive processes and 
underlying auditory neural integrity.

Allen P(1), Allan C(2).

Author information:
(1)National Centre for Audiology, Western University, Canada. Electronic 
address: pallen@uwo.ca.
(2)National Centre for Audiology, Western University, Canada. Electronic 
address: callan@nca.uwo.ca.

BACKGROUND: Auditory processing disorder (APD) in children has been reported and 
discussed in the clinical and research literature for many years yet there 
remains poor agreement on diagnostic criteria, the relationship between APD and 
cognitive skills, and the importance of assessing underlying neural integrity.
PURPOSE: The present study used a repeated measures design to examine the 
relationship between a clinical APD diagnosis achieved with behavioral tests 
used in many clinics, cognitive abilities measured with standardized tests of 
intelligence, academic achievement, language, phonology, memory and attention 
and measures of auditory neural integrity as measured with acoustic reflex 
thresholds and auditory brainstem responses.
METHOD: Participants were 63 children, 7-17 years of age, who reported listening 
difficulties in spite of normal hearing thresholds. Parents/guardians completed 
surveys about the child's auditory and attention behavior while children 
completed an audiologic examination that included 5 behavioral tests of auditory 
processing ability. Standardized tests that examined intelligence, academic 
achievement, language, phonology, memory and attention, and objective tests 
auditory function included crossed and uncrossed acoustic reflex thresholds and 
auditory brainstem responses (ABR) were also administered to each child.
RESULTS: Forty of the children received an APD diagnosis based on the 5 
behavioral tests and 23 did not. The groups of children performed similarly on 
intelligence measures but the children with an APD diagnosis tended to perform 
more poorly on other cognitive measures. Auditory brainstem responses and 
acoustic reflex thresholds were often abnormal in both groups of children.
SUMMARY: Results of this study suggest that a purely behavioral test battery may 
be insufficient to accurately identify all children with auditory processing 
disorders. Physiologic test measures, including acoustic reflex and auditory 
brainstem response tests, are important indicators of auditory function and may 
be the only indication of a problem. The results also suggest that performance 
on behavioral APD tests may be strongly influenced by the child's language 
levels.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijporl.2013.10.048
PMID: 24370466 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


283. Schizophr Bull. 2014 Mar;40 Suppl 2(Suppl 2):S138-46. doi: 
10.1093/schbul/sbt198. Epub 2013 Dec 26.

Differential neurodevelopmental trajectories in patients with early-onset 
bipolar and schizophrenia disorders.

Arango C(1), Fraguas D, Parellada M.

Author information:
(1)*To whom correspondence should be addressed; Hospital General Universitario 
Gregorio Marañón, Ibiza 43, 28009 Madrid, Spain; tel: 34-914265006; fax: 
34-91426004, e-mail: carango@mprc.umaryland.edu.

Schizophrenia and bipolar disorders share not only clinical features but also 
some risk factors such as genetic markers and childhood adversity, while other 
risk factors such as urbanicity and obstetric complications seem to be specific 
to schizophrenia. An intriguing question is whether the well-established 
abnormal neurodevelopment present in many children and adolescents who 
eventually develop schizophrenia is also present in bipolar patients. The 
literature on adult bipolar patients is controversial. We report data on a 
subgroup of patients with pediatric-onset psychotic bipolar disorder who seem to 
share some developmental trajectories with patients with early-onset 
schizophrenia. These early-onset psychotic bipolar patients have low 
intelligence quotient, more neurological signs, reduced frontal gray matter at 
the time of their first psychotic episode, and greater brain changes than 
healthy controls in a pattern similar to early-onset schizophrenia cases. 
However, patients with early-onset schizophrenia seem to have more social 
impairment, developmental abnormalities (eg, language problems), and lower 
academic achievement in childhood than early-onset bipolar patients. We suggest 
that some of these abnormal developmental trajectories are more related to the 
phenotypic features (eg, early-onset psychotic symptoms) of these 2 syndromes 
than to categorically defined Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental 
Disorders disorders.

DOI: 10.1093/schbul/sbt198
PMCID: PMC3934406
PMID: 24371326 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


284. J Psychiatr Res. 2014 Mar;50:92-9. doi: 10.1016/j.jpsychires.2013.12.003. Epub 
2013 Dec 18.

Cognitive impairment among children at-risk for schizophrenia.

Dickson H(1), Cullen AE(2), Reichenberg A(3), Hodgins S(4), Campbell DD(5), 
Morris RG(6), Laurens KR(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Forensic and Neurodevelopmental Sciences, Institute of 
Psychiatry, King's College London, United Kingdom. Electronic address: 
hannah.dickson@kcl.ac.uk.
(2)Department of Forensic and Neurodevelopmental Sciences, Institute of 
Psychiatry, King's College London, United Kingdom.
(3)Department of Psychosis Studies, Institute of Psychiatry, King's College 
London, United Kingdom; Department of Psychiatry, Ichan School of Medicine at 
Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA; Department of Preventive Medicine, Ichan School 
of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA; Freidman Brain Institute, Ichan 
School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(4)Département de Psychiatrie, Université de Montréal, Montréal, Canada.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong.
(6)Department of Psychology, Institute of Psychiatry, Kings College London, 
United Kingdom.
(7)Department of Forensic and Neurodevelopmental Sciences, Institute of 
Psychiatry, King's College London, United Kingdom; Research Unit for 
Schizophrenia Epidemiology, School of Psychiatry, University of New South Wales, 
Sydney, Australia; Schizophrenia Research Institute, Sydney, Australia. 
Electronic address: kristin.laurens@kcl.ac.uk.

Adults with schizophrenia present cognitive impairments, as do individuals at 
ultra-high risk for the disorder, youth with relatives with schizophrenia 
spectrum disorders, and children with antecedents of schizophrenia. The present 
study aimed to determine if impairments in childhood differed depending on the 
definition of risk and/or on the degree of relatedness to an affected 
individual, and if impairments were explained by IQ. Four groups of children 
aged 9-12 years were studied: (1) 13 children with ≥1 first-degree or ≥2 
second-degree affected relatives (high familial loading: FHx(H)); (2) 14 with ≥1 
affected second-degree relative (lower familial loading: FHx(L)); (3) 32 with 
well-replicated antecedents of schizophrenia (ASz); and (4) 45 
typically-developing (TD) children with neither a positive family history nor 
antecedents. Compared to TD children, both FHx(H) and ASz children exhibited 
significantly poorer verbal comprehension, scholastic achievement, and verbal 
working memory, while FHx(H) children additionally displayed significantly lower 
full-scale IQ, and verbal memory and executive function impairments. After 
adjusting statistical analyses for IQ, group differences were attenuated. 
Relative to TD children, FHx(L) children showed no significant differences in 
performance. The results imply that impairments in verbal comprehension, 
scholastic achievement, and verbal working memory may index vulnerability for 
schizophrenia among children with affected relatives with the disorder and among 
those with multiple antecedents of the disorder who have no affected relatives. 
More accurate identification of children at-risk for schizophrenia and the 
specific deficits that they present provides opportunities for interventions 
such as cognitive remediation that may impact the development of the illness.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpsychires.2013.12.003
PMID: 24373930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. Cognition. 2014 Mar;130(3):278-88. doi: 10.1016/j.cognition.2013.11.015. Epub 
2013 Dec 25.

Independent effects of bilingualism and socioeconomic status on language ability 
and executive functioning.

Calvo A(1), Bialystok E(2).

Author information:
(1)York University, Canada.
(2)York University, Canada. Electronic address: ellenb@yorku.ca.

One hundred and seventy-five children who were 6-years old were assigned to one 
of four groups that differed in socioeconomic status (SES; working class or 
middle class) and language background (monolingual or bilingual). The children 
completed tests of nonverbal intelligence, language tests assessing receptive 
vocabulary and attention based on picture naming, and two tests of executive 
functioning. All children performed equivalently on the basic intelligence 
tests, but performance on the language and executive functioning tasks was 
influenced by both SES and bilingualism. Middle-class children outperformed 
working-class children on all measures, and bilingual children obtained lower 
scores than monolingual children on language tests but higher scores than 
monolingual children on the executive functioning tasks. There were no 
interactions with either group factors or task factors. Thus, each of SES and 
bilingualism contribute significantly and independently to children's 
development irrespective of the child's level on the other factor.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cognition.2013.11.015
PMCID: PMC3921957
PMID: 24374020 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


286. Eur Eat Disord Rev. 2014 Mar;22(2):152-6. doi: 10.1002/erv.2274. Epub 2013 Dec 
22.

The early cognitive development of children at high risk of developing an eating 
disorder.

Kothari R(1), Rosinska M, Treasure J, Micali N.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Child Health, University College London, UK.

Diagnosis of an eating disorder (ED) has been associated with differences in 
cognition. Recent evidence suggests that differences may be present prior to 
onset. Children at familial high risk for ED show cognitive differences at ages 
8-10 years. Research is required to investigate differences in cognitive 
development at various time points. This is the first study to investigate 
cognitive development in children at high risk at 18 months (Griffiths Mental 
Development Scale; n=982) and 4 years old (Wechsler Preschool and Primary Scale 
of Intelligence-Revised; n=582), in comparison with children not at risk, using 
a general population sample, the Avon Longitudinal Study of Parents and 
Children. Children of women with lifetime anorexia nervosa revealed difficulties 
in social understanding, visual-motor function, planning and abstract reasoning. 
Cognitive differences observed here have also been observed in clinical groups. 
This suggests difficulties may be present prior to onset, potentially affecting 
risk status for development of ED. Findings contribute to an understanding of 
aetiology, and design of prevention/intervention strategies.

Copyright © 2013 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd and Eating Disorders Association.

DOI: 10.1002/erv.2274
PMCID: PMC4208682
PMID: 24375832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


287. Psychiatry Res. 2014 Feb 28;215(2):268-73. doi: 10.1016/j.psychres.2013.12.009. 
Epub 2013 Dec 14.

A positive correlation between serum levels of mature brain-derived neurotrophic 
factor and negative symptoms in schizophrenia.

Niitsu T(1), Ishima T(2), Yoshida T(3), Hashimoto T(3), Matsuzawa D(4), 
Shirayama Y(5), Nakazato M(6), Shimizu E(4), Hashimoto K(2), Iyo M(7).

Author information:
(1)Research Center for Child Mental Development, Chiba University Graduate 
School of Medicine, Chiba, Japan. Electronic address: niitsu@chiba-u.jp.
(2)Division of Clinical Neuroscience, Chiba University Center for Forensic 
Mental Health, Chiba, Japan.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, Chiba University Graduate School of Medicine, 
Chiba, Japan.
(4)Research Center for Child Mental Development, Chiba University Graduate 
School of Medicine, Chiba, Japan; Department of Cognitive Behavioral Physiology, 
Chiba University Graduate School of Medicine, Chiba, Japan.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, Teikyo University Chiba Medical Center, Ichihara, 
Japan.
(6)Research Center for Child Mental Development, Chiba University Graduate 
School of Medicine, Chiba, Japan.
(7)Division of Clinical Neuroscience, Chiba University Center for Forensic 
Mental Health, Chiba, Japan; Department of Psychiatry, Chiba University Graduate 
School of Medicine, Chiba, Japan.

A meta-analysis study reported serum brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) 
levels as a potential biomarker for schizophrenia. However, at the time, 
commercially available human ELISA kits were unable to distinguish between 
pro-BDNF (precursor BDNF) and mature BDNF, because of limited antibody 
specificity. Here, we used new ELISA kits, to examine serum levels of mature 
BDNF and matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9), which converts pro-BDNF to mature 
BDNF in schizophrenia. Sixty-three patients with chronic schizophrenia and 52 
age- and sex-matched healthy controls were enrolled. Patients were evaluated 
using the Brief Psychiatry Rating Scale, the Scale for the Assessment of 
Negative Symptoms (SANS) and neuropsychological tests. Neither serum mature BDNF 
nor MMP-9 levels differed between patients and controls. In male subgroups, 
serum MMP-9 levels of smoking patients were higher than those of non-smoking 
patients, but this was not observed in male controls or the female subgroup. In 
patients, serum mature BDNF levels were associated with SANS total scores and 
the Information subtest scores of the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale Revised 
(WAIS-R), while serum MMP-9 levels were associated with smoking and category 
fluency scores. These findings suggest that neither mature BDNF nor MMP-9 is a 
suitable biomarker for schizophrenia, although further studies using large 
samples are needed.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2013.12.009
PMID: 24377440 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


288. Neurobiol Aging. 2014 Jun;35(6):1375-85. doi: 
10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2013.11.028. Epub 2013 Dec 4.

Right hemisphere role in cognitive reserve.

Robertson IH(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Neuroscience and School of Psychology, Trinity College Dublin, 
Dublin, Ireland. Electronic address: iroberts@tcd.ie.

High levels of education, occupational complexity, and/or premorbid intelligence 
are associated with lower levels of cognitive impairment than would be expected 
from a given brain pathology. This has been observed across a range of 
conditions including Alzheimer's disease (Roe et al., 2010), stroke 
(Ojala-Oksala et al., 2012), traumatic brain injury (Kesler et al., 2003), and 
penetrating brain injury (Grafman, 1986). This cluster of factors, which 
seemingly protect the brain from expressing symptoms of damage, has been termed 
"cognitive reserve" (Stern, 2012). The current review considers one possible 
neural network, which may contribute to cognitive reserve. Based on the evidence 
that the neurotransmitter, noradrenaline mediates cognitive reserve's protective 
effects (Robertson, 2013) this review identifies the neurocognitive correlates 
of noradrenergic (NA) activity. These involve a set of inter-related cognitive 
processes (arousal, sustained attention, response to novelty, and awareness) 
with a strongly right hemisphere, fronto-parietal localization, along with 
working memory, which is also strongly modulated by NA. It is proposed that this 
set of processes is one plausible candidate for partially mediating the 
protective effects of cognitive reserve. In addition to its biological effects 
on brain structure and function, NA function may also facilitate networks for 
arousal, novelty, attention, awareness, and working memory, which collectively 
provide for a set of additional, cognitive, mechanisms that help the brain adapt 
to age-related changes and disease. It is hypothesized that to the extent that 
the lateral surface of the right prefrontal lobe and/or the right inferior 
parietal lobe maintain structural (white and gray matter) and functional 
integrity and connectivity, cognitive reserve should benefit and behavioral 
expression of pathologic damage should thus be mitigated.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2013.11.028
PMID: 24378088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


289. Iran J Psychiatry Behav Sci. 2014 Winter;8(4):52-6.

Relationship of spiritual intelligence with resilience and perceived stress.

Khosravi M(1), Nikmanesh Z(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, School of Education and Psychology, University of 
Sistan and Baluchestan, Zahedan, Iran.
(2)Associate Professor, Department of Psychology, School of Education and 
Psychology, University of Sistan and Baluchestan, Zahedan, Iran.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to investigate on relationship between 
spiritual intelligence, resilience, and perceived stress.
METHODS: The study sample consisted of 307 students of Sistan and Baluchistan 
University. The Connor-Davidson Resilience Scale (CD-RISC), the Spiritual 
Intelligence Self-Report Inventory (SISRI) and the Perceived Stress Scale (PSS) 
are used as a research instrument.
RESULTS: The results show that there is a positive and significant relationship 
between the SISRI and the CD-RISC. However, there is a negative and significant 
relationship between the SISRI and the PSS of students. The Enter regression 
analysis for prediction of the CD-RISC show that the SISRI predicts 0.10 of the 
CD-RISC variances and also the SISRI predicts 0.11 of the PSS variances.
CONCLUSION: Spirituality helps to resilience in people who experience stress.

PMCID: PMC4364477
PMID: 25798174


290. Ter Arkh. 2014;86(12):61-5. doi: 10.17116/terarkh2014861261-65.

[Cognitive and emotional impairments in patients with protracted anxiety-phobic 
disorders].

[Article in Russian]

Chutko LS, Surushkina SIu, Iakovenko EA, Nikishena IS, Anisimova TI, Bondarchuk 
IuL.

AIM: To study cognitive and emotional impairments in patients with 
anxiety-phobic disorders (APDs), to comparatively analyze the clinical 
manifestations of acute (less than one-year) and protracted (1-to-5-year) forms 
of this disease, and to evaluate the efficacy of noofen used to treat this 
pathology.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Sixty-two patients aged 18 to 50 years with APDs were 
examined. The investigators collected clinical history data, performed 
neurological examination, and assessed autonomic disorders in accordance with 
the questionnaire to reveal their signs, anxiety using the Hamilton anxiety 
rating scale, memory impairment employing the methods developed by A.R. Luria, 
attention disorders applying the test of variables of attention, and diagnosed 
emotional intelligence using the Mayer-Salovey-Caruso emotional intelligence 
test. Noofen 1000 mg/day was used to treat the patients.
RESULTS: Protracted APDs were shown to be characterized by the higher degree of 
psychosomatic symptoms and by more pronounced impairments in attention, memory, 
and emotional intelligence. The data of posttreatment clinical and psychological 
studiesare indicative of improvements in 73.3% of cases.
CONCLUSION: The findings may lead to the conclusion that noofen is highly 
effective in the treatment of patients with protracted APDs.

DOI: 10.17116/terarkh2014861261-65
PMID: 25804042 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


291. EGEMS (Wash DC). 2014 Nov 24;2(1):1059. doi: 10.13063/2327-9214.1059. 
eCollection 2014.

The COMET Sleep Research Platform.

Nichols DA(1), DeSalvo S(1), Miller RA(1), Jónsson D(1), Griffin KS(2), Hyde 
PR(1), Walsh JK(2), Kushida CA(1).

Author information:
(1)Stanford Sleep Medicine Center.
(2)St. Luke's Hospital.

INTRODUCTION: The Comparative Outcomes Management with Electronic Data 
Technology (COMET) platform is extensible and designed for facilitating 
multicenter electronic clinical research.
BACKGROUND: Our research goals were the following: (1) to conduct a comparative 
effectiveness trial (CET) for two obstructive sleep apnea treatments-positive 
airway pressure versus oral appliance therapy; and (2) to establish a new 
electronic network infrastructure that would support this study and other 
clinical research studies.
DISCUSSION: The COMET platform was created to satisfy the needs of CET with a 
focus on creating a platform that provides comprehensive toolsets, multisite 
collaboration, and end-to-end data management. The platform also provides 
medical researchers the ability to visualize and interpret data using business 
intelligence (BI) tools.
CONCLUSION: COMET is a research platform that is scalable and extensible, and 
which, in a future version, can accommodate big data sets and enable efficient 
and effective research across multiple studies and medical specialties. The 
COMET platform components were designed for an eventual move to a cloud 
computing infrastructure that enhances sustainability, overall cost 
effectiveness, and return on investment.

DOI: 10.13063/2327-9214.1059
PMCID: PMC4371444
PMID: 25848590


292. EGEMS (Wash DC). 2014 Jul 24;2(2):1069. doi: 10.13063/2327-9214.1069. 
eCollection 2014.

Achieving and sustaining automated health data linkages for learning systems: 
barriers and solutions.

Van Eaton EG(1), Devlin AB(1), Devine EB(1), Flum DR(1), Tarczy-Hornoch P(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Washington.

INTRODUCTION: Delivering more appropriate, safer, and highly effective health 
care is the goal of a learning health care system. The Agency for Healthcare 
Research and Quality (AHRQ) funded enhanced registry projects: (1) to create and 
analyze valid data for comparative effectiveness research (CER); and (2) to 
enhance the ability to monitor and advance clinical quality improvement (QI). 
This case report describes barriers and solutions from one state-wide enhanced 
registry project.
METHODS: The Comparative Effectiveness Research and Translation Network 
(CERTAIN) deployed the commercially available Amalga Unified Intelligence 
System™ (Amalga) as a central data repository to enhance an existing QI registry 
(the Automation Project). An eight-step implementation process included hospital 
recruitment, technical electronic health record (EHR) review, hospital-specific 
interface planning, data ingestion, and validation. Data ownership and security 
protocols were established, along with formal methods to separate data 
management for QI purposes and research purposes. Sustainability would come from 
lowered chart review costs and the hospital's desire to invest in the 
infrastructure after trying it.
FINDINGS: CERTAIN approached 19 hospitals in Washington State operating within 
12 unaffiliated health care systems for the Automation Project. Five of the 19 
completed all implementation steps. Four hospitals did not participate due to 
lack of perceived institutional value. Ten hospitals did not participate because 
their information technology (IT) departments were oversubscribed (e.g., too 
busy with Meaningful Use upgrades). One organization representing 22 additional 
hospitals expressed interest, but was unable to overcome data governance 
barriers in time. Questions about data use for QI versus research were resolved 
in a widely adopted project framework. Hospitals restricted data delivery to a 
subset of patients, introducing substantial technical challenges. Overcoming 
challenges of idiosyncratic EHR implementations required each hospital to devote 
more IT resources than were predicted. Cost savings did not meet projections 
because of the increased IT resource requirements and a different source of 
lowered chart review costs.
DISCUSSION: CERTAIN succeeded in recruiting unaffiliated hospitals into the 
Automation Project to create an enhanced registry to achieve AHRQ goals. This 
case report describes several distinct barriers to central data aggregation for 
QI and CER across unaffiliated hospitals: (1) competition for limited on-site IT 
expertise, (2) concerns about data use for QI versus research, (3) restrictions 
on data automation to a defined subset of patients, and (4) unpredictable 
resource needs because of idiosyncrasies among unaffiliated hospitals in how EHR 
data are coded, stored, and made available for transmission-even between 
hospitals using the same vendor's EHR. Therefore, even a fully optimized 
automation infrastructure would still not achieve complete automation. The 
Automation Project was unable to align sufficiently with internal hospital 
objectives, so it could not show a compelling case for sustainability.

DOI: 10.13063/2327-9214.1069
PMCID: PMC4371442
PMID: 25848606


293. World Hosp Health Serv. 2014;50(4):35-40.

Environmental pollution: An enormous and invisible burden on health systems in 
low- and middle-income counties.

Landrigan PJ, Fuller R.

Background. Environmental pollution has become the leading risk factor for death 
in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs). The World Health Organization and 
others calculate that exposures to polluted air - indoor and outdoor, water and 
soil resulted in 8.4 million deaths in LMICs in 2012. By comparison, HIV/AIDS 
causes 1.5 million deaths per year, and malaria and tuberculosis Less than 1 
million each. The diseases caused by pollution include the traditional scourges 
of pneumonia and diarrhea, but increasingly they also include chronic, 
non-communicable diseases (NCDs) such as such as heart disease, stroke and 
cancer. Method. We review the diseases caused by pollution and the multiple 
economic and human burdens that these diseases impose on health systems in 
countries with already limited resources. Results. We find that diseases caused 
by pollution increase health care costs, especially for high-cost NCDs. They 
impose an unnecessary load on health care delivery systems by increasing 
hospital staffing needs and thus diverting resources from essential prevention 
programmes such as childhood immunizations, infection control and maternal and 
child health. They undermine the development of poor countries by reducing the 
health, intelligence and economic productivity of entire generations. Pollution 
is highly preventable and pollution prevention is highly cost-effective. Yet 
despite their high economic and human costs and amenability to prevention, the 
diseases caused by pollution have not received the attention that they deserve 
in policy planning or in the international development agenda. Conclusion. 
Pollution is not inevitable. It is a problem that can be solved in our lifetime. 
Given the great impact of pollution on health and health care resources and the 
high cost-benefit ratio of pollution prevention, efforts to mitigate pollution 
should become a key strategic priority for international funders and for 
governments of LMICs. Recommendation. Assisting LMICs to prioritize disease 
prevention through the management of pollution is a highly cost-effective 
strategy for enhancing population health, reducing the burden on limited health 
resources and advancing national development.

PMID: 25985560 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


294. EGEMS (Wash DC). 2015 Mar 30;2(4):1172. doi: 10.13063/2327-9214.1172. 
eCollection 2014.

Creating value: unifying silos into public health business intelligence.

Davidson AJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Denver Public Health.

INTRODUCTION: Through September 2014, federal investments in health information 
technology have been unprecedented, with more than 25 billion dollars in 
incentive funds distributed to eligible hospitals and providers. Over 85 percent 
of eligible United States hospitals and 60 percent of eligible providers have 
used certified electronic health record (EHR) technology and received Meaningful 
Use incentive funds (HITECH Act1).
TECHNOLOGY: Certified EHR technology could create new public health (PH) value 
through novel and rapidly evolving data-use opportunities, never before 
experienced by PH. The long-standing "silo" approach to funding has fragmented 
PH programs and departments,2 but the components for integrated business 
intelligence (i.e., tools and applications to help users make informed 
decisions) and maximally reuse data are available now.
SYSTEMS: Challenges faced by PH agencies on the road to integration are 
plentiful, but an emphasis on PH systems and services research (PHSSR) may 
identify gaps and solutions for the PH community to address.
CONCLUSION: Technology and system approaches to leverage this information 
explosion to support a transformed health care system and population health are 
proposed. By optimizing this information opportunity, PH can play a greater role 
in the learning health system.

DOI: 10.13063/2327-9214.1172
PMCID: PMC4438104
PMID: 25995989


295. Med Secoli. 2014;26(2):401-21.

Cold drugs. Circulation, production and intelligence of antibiotics in post-WWII 
years.

Capocci M.

The paper details how the earliest antibiotics were subject to a strict control 
during the earliest phase of the Cold War. Because of antibiotics strategic and 
economic value, Anglo-American Governments restricted circulation of scientists, 
techno-scientific know-how and technology related to penicillin production, as 
well as closely controlling the circulation of the drugs in the Communist 
countries. These efforts are documented by archival documents, testifying how 
drugs were actual instruments of propaganda and political strategies, affecting 
pharmaceutical development both in the Western and the Eastern bloc.

PMID: 26054208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


296. Span J Psychol. 2014 Dec 17;17:E89. doi: 10.1017/sjp.2014.98.

Dynamic assessment: the Spanish version of the Application of Cognitive 
Functions Scale.

Mata S(1), Dolores Calero M(1).

Author information:
(1)Universidad de Granada (Spain).

For the last 30 years, the sphere of educational assessment has been giving 
consideration to methodology that would focus on the processes more than on the 
final results obtained. Dynamic Assessment has appeared within this context, 
making it possible to assess a child's ability to improve on a certain task 
after receiving mediated training. One of the techniques developed to assess the 
learning potential of preschoolers is the Application of Cognitive Functions 
Scale (ACFS: Lidz & Jepsen, 2003). The objective of this study was to verify the 
criterion validity of the Spanish version of the ACFS which was applied to 87 
children in the second year of preschool, at which time a learning potential 
index was obtained for each child. Two years later, the children were reassessed 
with respect to intelligence, metacognition and scholastic aptitudes. Results 
showed that learning potential presented evidences of predictive validity 
regarding to the progression showed on the Kaufman Brief Intelligence Test's 
(K-BIT: Kaufman & Kauffman, 1994) matrices subtest (p = .04, η2 = .04) and on 
the evaluation subtest of the metacognition questionnaire (p = .02, η2 = .05). 
Results also showed significant differences between groups on the 
visual-perceptive aptitude subtest (p = .01) in favor of the children classified 
as learners.

DOI: 10.1017/sjp.2014.98
PMID: 26054622 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


297. Multivariate Behav Res. 2014;49(1):1-16. doi: 10.1080/00273171.2013.841089.

Fighting for Intelligence: A Brief Overview of the Academic Work of John L. 
Horn.

McArdle JJ(1), Hofer SM(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Southern California.
(2)Department of Psychology, University of Victoria, British Columbia, Canada.

John L. Horn (1928-2006) was a pioneer in multivariate thinking and the 
application of multivariate methods to research on intelligence and personality. 
His key works on individual differences in the methodological areas of factor 
analysis and the substantive areas of cognition are reviewed here. John was also 
our mentor, teacher, colleague, and friend. We overview John Horn's main 
contributions to the field of intelligence by highlighting 3 issues about his 
methods of factor analysis and 3 of his substantive debates about intelligence. 
We first focus on Horn's methodological demonstrations describing (a) the many 
uses of simulated random variables in exploratory factor analysis; (b) the 
exploratory uses of confirmatory factor analysis; and (c) the key differences 
between states, traits, and trait-changes. On a substantive basis, John believed 
that there were important individual differences among people in terms of 
cognition and personality. These sentiments led to his intellectual battles 
about (d) Spearman's g theory of a unitary intelligence, (e) Guilford's 
multifaceted model of intelligence, and (f) the Schaie and Baltes approach to 
defining the lack of decline of intelligence earlier in the life span. We 
conclude with a summary of John Horn's unique approaches to dealing with common 
issues.

DOI: 10.1080/00273171.2013.841089
PMCID: PMC4523296
PMID: 26246642


298. J Infect Prev. 2014 Jan;15(1):14-21. doi: 10.1177/1757177413512387. Epub 2013 
Nov 18.

The outcome competency framework for practitioners in infection prevention and 
control: use of the outcome logic model for evaluation.

Burnett E(1), Curran E(2), Loveday HP(3), Kiernan MA(4), Tannahill M(5).

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing and Midwifery in collaboration with the Infection 
Prevention Society, Infection Prevention and Control, University of Dundee, 
Dundee, UK.
(2)Infection Control, Health Protection Scotland, Glasgow, UK.
(3)Director of the Richard Wells Research Centre, University of West London, 
London, UK.
(4)Infection Prevention Consultant, Southport and Ormskirk Hospital NHS Trust, 
Merseyside, UK.
(5)Consultant nurse infection control, Care Inspectorate, Paisley, UK.

Healthcare is delivered in a dynamic environment with frequent changes in 
populations, methods, equipment and settings. Infection prevention and control 
practitioners (IPCPs) must ensure that they are competent in addressing the 
challenges they face and are equipped to develop infection prevention and 
control (IPC) services in line with a changing world of healthcare provision. A 
multifaceted Framework was developed to assist IPCPs to enhance competence at an 
individual, team and organisational level to enable quality performance and 
improved quality of care. However, if these aspirations are to be met, it is 
vital that competency frameworks are fit for purpose or they risk being ignored. 
The aim of this unique study was to evaluate short and medium term outcomes as 
set out in the Outcome Logic Model to assist with the evaluation of the impact 
and success of the Framework. This study found that while the Framework is being 
used effectively in some areas, it is not being used as much or in the ways that 
were anticipated. The findings will enable future work on revision, 
communication and dissemination, and will provide intelligence to those 
initiating education and training in the utilisation of the competences.

DOI: 10.1177/1757177413512387
PMCID: PMC5074127
PMID: 28989348

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting Interest: The author 
declares that there is no conflict of interest.


299. Dement Neuropsychol. 2014 Jan-Mar;8(1):26-31. doi: 
10.1590/S1980-57642014DN81000005.

Performance of an adult Brazilian sample on the Trail Making Test and Stroop 
Test.

Campanholo KR(1), Romão MA(1), Machado MAR(1), Serrao VT(1), Coutinho DGC(1), 
Benute GRG(1), Miotto EC(2), de Lucia MCS(1).

Author information:
(1)Psychology Division - Hospital das Clinicas, University of São Paulo, São 
Paulo, Brazil.
(2)Neurology Department - Hospital das Clínicas, University of São Paulo, São 
Paulo, Brazil.

OBJECTIVE: The Trail Making Test (TMT) and Stroop Test (ST) are attention tests 
widely used in clinical practice and research. The aim of this study was to 
provide normative data for the adult Brazilian population and to study the 
influence of gender, age and education on the TMT parts A and B, and ST cards A, 
B and C.
METHODS: We recruited 1447 healthy subjects aged ≥18 years with an educational 
level of 0-25 years who were native speakers of Portuguese (Brazilian). The 
subjects were evaluated by the Matrix Reasoning and Vocabulary subtests of the 
Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-III, along with the TMTA, TMTB and ST A, B and 
C.
RESULTS: Among the participants, mean intellectual efficiency was 103.20 (SD: 
12.0), age 41.0 (SD: 16.4) years and education 11.9 (SD: 5.6) years. There were 
significant differences between genders on the TMTA (p=0.002), TMTB (p=0.017) 
and STC (p=0.024). Age showed a positive correlation with all attention tests, 
whereas education showed a negative correlation. Gender was not found to be 
significant on the multiple linear regression model, but age and education 
maintained their interference.
CONCLUSION: Gender did not have the major impact on attentional tasks observed 
for age and education, both of which should be considered in the stratification 
of normative samples.

Publisher: OBJETIVO: Os testes de atenção Trail Making Test (TMT) e Stroop Test 
(ST) são largamente usados na prática clínica e em pesquisas. O objetivo deste 
estudo foi fornecer informação normativa para a população brasileira de adultos 
e estudar a interferência de gênero, idade e educação no TMT parte A e B e no ST 
cartão A, B e C.
MÉTODOS: Recrutamos 1447 sujeitos saudáveis com idade ≥18 anos, nível 
educacional de 0-25 anos, falantes nativos do Português (Brasil). Os sujeitos 
foram avaliados pelos subtestes do Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-III 
Raciocínio Matricial e Vocabulários, além do TMTA, TMTB e ST A, B e C.
RESULTADOS: Entre os participantes a média de eficiência intelectual foi de 
103,20 (SD: 12,0), de idade 41,0 (SD: 16,4) anos e de escolaridade 11,9 (SD: 
5,6) anos. Houve diferenças significantes por gênero em TMTA (p=0,002), TMTB 
(p=0,017) e STC (p=0,024). Idade se correlacionou de modo positivo com todos os 
testes de atenção, enquanto a escolaridade correlacionou-se de modo negativo. 
Após o modelo de regressão linear múltipla o gênero não manteve correlação 
significativa, mas idade e escolaridade mantiveram sua interferência.
CONCLUSÃO: O gênero não mostrou grande impacto nas tarefas atencionais como a 
idade e escolaridade que devem, portanto, ser consideradas na estratificação de 
amostras normativas.

DOI: 10.1590/S1980-57642014DN81000005
PMCID: PMC5619445
PMID: 29213876

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure: The authors report no conflicts of 
interest.


300. J Psychol Abnorm Child. 2014;3(3):127. doi: 10.4172/2329-9525.1000127. Epub 2014 
Aug 4.

Short and Long-Term Effects of Compromised Birth Weight, Head Circumference, and 
Apgar Scores on Neuropsychological Development.

Gampel SB(1)(2), Nomura Y(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Albert Einstein College of Medicine, New York, USA.
(2)Division of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Department of Psychiatry, Icahn 
School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, USA.
(3)Department of Psychology, Queens College, CUNY, Flushing, New York, USA.

BACKGROUND: Low birth weight (LBW, <2500 g) is an adverse perinatal risk that 
may reflect a poor intrauterine environment. While LBW has been a well-known 
predictor of physical, neurological, cognitive and psychological deficits later 
in life, minimal research has been done on small head circumference and low 5 
minute Apgar scores, and their association with subsequent developmental 
abnormalities.
OBJECTIVE: The current study aims to demonstrate that small head circumference 
and low 5-minute Apgar scores are predictors for developmental abnormalities 
throughout childhood and later.
METHODS: Using a longitudinal design, 2,151 individuals' physical, neurological, 
and cognitive functioning in childhood, as well as psychological functioning in 
adulthood, was assessed as a function of three perinatal risk factors: LBW, 
small head circumference and low Apgar scores.
RESULTS: Similar to findings with LBW, small head circumference or a low Apgar 
score were associated with increased number of hospital visits (p<0.0001 and 
p=0.005 respectively) and neurological abnormalities (p<0.0001 and p=0.001 
respectively) at age 1. Intelligence quotient (IQ) scores at ages 4 and 7 were 
significantly lower for those born with small head circumference (p<0.0001) or 
low Apgar scores (p=0.002). Finally, the incidence of anxiety in adulthood was 
significantly higher for those born with small head circumference (p=0.03) or 
low Apgar scores (p=0.004) compared to their counterpart.
CONCLUSION: Small head circumference and low a Apgar score are predictors of 
later physical, neurological, cognitive and psychological abnormalities, and can 
complement LBW, a more frequently used perinatal risk factor, and thus be used 
to screen for future developmental deficits, together with LBW.

DOI: 10.4172/2329-9525.1000127
PMCID: PMC6020841
PMID: 29963581

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


301. Nurse Educ Today. 2014 Jun;34(6):918-23. doi: 10.1016/j.nedt.2013.12.005. Epub 
2013 Dec 19.

Factors related to academic success among nursing students: a descriptive 
correlational research study.

Beauvais AM(1), Stewart JG(2), DeNisco S(3), Beauvais JE(4).

Author information:
(1)Sacred Heart University, 5151 Park Avenue, Fairfield, CT 06825-1000, United 
States. Electronic address: beauvaisa@sacredheart.edu.
(2)Sacred Heart University, 5151 Park Avenue, Fairfield, CT 06825-1000, United 
States. Electronic address: StewartJ1270@sacredheart.edu.
(3)Sacred Heart University, 5151 Park Avenue, Fairfield, CT 06825-1000, United 
States. Electronic address: deniscos@sacredheart.edu.
(4)Yale University School of Medicine and Psychology Service VA Connecticut 
Healthcare System, 950 Campbell Avenue, West Haven, CT 06516, United States. 
Electronic address: john.beauvais@va.gov.

BACKGROUND: The current rise in employment is improving forecasts for the future 
supply of registered nurses; however sizeable shortages are still projected. 
With the intention of improving academic success in nursing students, related 
factors need to be better understood.
OBJECTIVES: The purpose of the correlational study was to describe the 
relationship between emotional intelligence, psychological empowerment, 
resilience, spiritual well-being, and academic success in undergraduate and 
graduate nursing students.
DESIGN/SETTING: A descriptive correlational design was utilized. The study was 
set in a private Catholic university.
PARTICIPANTS: There were 124 participants. There were 59% undergraduate and 41% 
graduate students.
METHODS: Background data, in addition to the Spreitzer Psychological Empowerment 
Scale, the Wagnild and Young Resilience Scale, and the Spiritual Well-Being 
Scale and the Mayer-Salovey-Caruso Emotional Intelligence Test, was collected 
from students who met study criteria.
RESULTS: In a combined sample, academic success was correlated with overall 
spiritual well-being, empowerment and resilience. Although academic success was 
not correlated with overall emotional intelligence, it was correlated with the 
emotional intelligence branch four (managing emotions) score. When undergraduate 
and graduate students were considered separately, only one correlation was found 
to be significantly related to academic success in the undergraduate sample, 
namely, emotional intelligence branch one (perceiving emotions). When examining 
the data from just graduate level nurses, significant relationships were found 
between total emotional intelligence with academic success, resilience with 
academic success, and psychological empowerment with academic success.
CONCLUSION: The significant relationship between psychological empowerment, 
resilience, spiritual well-being and academic success in this study supports the 
statements in the literature that these concepts may play an important role in 
persistence through the challenges of nursing education. Research is needed to 
examine if strategies to enhance empowerment, resilience, and spiritual 
well-being can increase academic success in a test-retest design.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nedt.2013.12.005
PMID: 24380623 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


302. Eur J Med Genet. 2014 Feb;57(2-3):81-4. doi: 10.1016/j.ejmg.2013.12.005. Epub 
2013 Dec 28.

A prenatal case of split-hand malformation associated with 17p13.3 triplication 
- a dilemma in genetic counseling.

Luk HM(1), Wong VC(2), Lo IF(1), Chan KY(3), Lau ET(3), Kan AS(4), Tang MH(5), 
Tang WF(6), She WM(2), Chu YW(2), Sin WK(7), Chung BH(8).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Genetic Service, Department of Health, Hong Kong, China.
(2)Department of Paediatrics and Adolescent Medicine, Queen Mary Hospital, Li Ka 
Shing Faculty of Medicine, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China.
(3)Department of Obstetrics & Gynaecology, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, The 
University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China; Prenatal Diagnostic and Counseling 
Department, Tsan Yuk Hospital, Hong Kong, China.
(4)Department of Obstetrics & Gynaecology, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, The 
University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China; Department of Obstetrics & 
Gynaecology, Queen Mary Hospital, Hong Kong, China.
(5)Prenatal Diagnostic and Counseling Department, Tsan Yuk Hospital, Hong Kong, 
China.
(6)Department of Obstetrics & Gynaecology, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, The 
University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China.
(7)Department of Obstetrics & Gynaecology, Tuen Mun Hospital, Hong Kong, China.
(8)Department of Paediatrics and Adolescent Medicine, Queen Mary Hospital, Li Ka 
Shing Faculty of Medicine, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China; 
Department of Obstetrics & Gynaecology, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, The 
University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China. Electronic address: bhychung@hku.hk.

Copy number gain of 17p13.3 has been shown to be associated with developmental 
delay/autism and Split-Hand-Foot malformation. We report a case of fetus with 
bilateral split-hand malformation detected on prenatal ultrasound. Array 
comparative genomic hybridization detected 2 maternally inherited copy number 
gains in the 17p13.3 region with one of them involving the BHLHA9 gene and part 
of the YWHAE gene. The mother is normal in intelligence with mild right foot 
anomaly only. Although the BHLHA9 copy gain is known to be associated with 
split-hand-foot malformation, the penetrance and expressivity is highly 
variable. More challenging is the effect of partial YWHAE copy number gain on 
neurodevelopment is inconclusive based on current literature. This case 
highlights the difficulties of prenatal genetic counseling in array comparative 
genomic hybridization findings in clinical situation with incomplete 
understanding of genotype-phenotype correlation.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejmg.2013.12.005
PMID: 24380768 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


303. Hum Brain Mapp. 2014 Aug;35(8):3760-73. doi: 10.1002/hbm.22435. Epub 2013 Dec 
31.

Genetic associations between intelligence and cortical thickness emerge at the 
start of puberty.

Brouwer RM(1), van Soelen IL, Swagerman SC, Schnack HG, Ehli EA, Kahn RS, 
Hulshoff Pol HE, Boomsma DI.

Author information:
(1)Brain Center Rudolf Magnus, Department of Psychiatry, University Medical 
Center Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands.

Cognitive abilities are related to (changes in) brain structure during 
adolescence and adulthood. Previous studies suggest that associations between 
cortical thickness and intelligence may be different at different ages. As both 
intelligence and cortical thickness are heritable traits, the question arises 
whether the association between cortical thickness development and intelligence 
is due to genes influencing both traits. We study this association in a 
longitudinal sample of young twins. Intelligence was assessed by standard IQ 
tests at age 9 in 224 twins, 190 of whom also underwent structural magnetic 
resonance imaging (MRI). Three years later at age 12, 177/125 twins returned for 
a follow-up measurement of intelligence/MRI scanning, respectively. We 
investigated whether cortical thickness was associated with intelligence and if 
so, whether this association was driven by genes. At age 9, there were no 
associations between cortical thickness and intelligence. At age 12, a negative 
relationship emerged. This association was mainly driven by verbal intelligence, 
and manifested itself most prominently in the left hemisphere. Cortical 
thickness and intelligence were explained by the same genes. As a post hoc 
analysis, we tested whether a specific allele (rs6265; Val66Met in the BDNF 
gene) contributed to this association. Met carriers showed lower intelligence 
and a thicker cortex, but only the association between the BDNF genotype and 
cortical thickness in the left superior parietal gyrus reached significance. In 
conclusion, it seems that brain areas contributing to (verbal) intellectual 
performance are specializing under the influence of genes around the onset of 
puberty.

Copyright © 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/hbm.22435
PMCID: PMC6868947
PMID: 24382822 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


304. J Exp Child Psychol. 2014 Apr;120:59-72. doi: 10.1016/j.jecp.2013.11.003. Epub 
2013 Dec 31.

Task structure complexity and goal neglect in typically developing children.

Roberts G(1), Anderson M(2).

Author information:
(1)Neurocognitive Development Unit, School of Psychology, University of Western 
Australia, Crawley 6009, WA, Australia; School of Psychology and Exercise 
Science, Murdoch University, Australia. Electronic address: 
g.roberts@murdoch.edu.au.
(2)Neurocognitive Development Unit, School of Psychology, University of Western 
Australia, Crawley 6009, WA, Australia; School of Psychology and Exercise 
Science, Murdoch University, Australia.

Goal neglect is a failure to enact task requirements despite being able to 
accurately report them. In this study, we introduce a new child-appropriate 
experimental paradigm to measure goal neglect in children between 7 and 11 years 
of age and test the hypothesis that the complexity of an action plan, not 
real-time trial demands, increases goal neglect. A total of 66 children 
(Mage=9.50 years) were administered a Feature Match task. Half of the children 
were given four rules for matching, and half were given three rules for 
matching. After practice, the four-rules group was told to ignore the additional 
rule, and both groups completed an identical three-rules task. The results 
showed that the extra rule increased goal neglect and its correlation with fluid 
intelligence. Although intermittent trial errors were correlated with fluid 
intelligence for both groups, only in the four-rules group were systematic rule 
failures (i.e., goal neglect) correlated with fluid intelligence. Task 
performance improved with chronological age; however, when controlling for the 
influence of fluid intelligence, the relationship between age and task 
performance was effectively removed. This suggests that a child's current level 
of fluid intelligence (and not age) determines task performance. We suggest that 
the relationship among goal neglect, complex task instructions, and fluid 
intelligence is linked to the mental preparation for future events, that is, 
mentally compiling verbal instructions into a set of activated goal 
representations in working memory that represent what is to be done and under 
what circumstances.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jecp.2013.11.003
PMID: 24384325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


305. Int J Health Geogr. 2014 Jan 4;13:2. doi: 10.1186/1476-072X-13-2.

Mapping for maternal and newborn health: the distributions of women of 
childbearing age, pregnancies and births.

Tatem AJ(1), Campbell J, Guerra-Arias M, de Bernis L, Moran A, Matthews Z.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geography and Environment, University of Southampton, 
Highfield, Southampton, UK. A.J.Tatem@soton.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: The health and survival of women and their new-born babies in low 
income countries has been a key priority in public health since the 1990s. 
However, basic planning data, such as numbers of pregnancies and births, remain 
difficult to obtain and information is also lacking on geographic access to key 
services, such as facilities with skilled health workers. For maternal and 
newborn health and survival, planning for safer births and healthier newborns 
could be improved by more accurate estimations of the distributions of women of 
childbearing age. Moreover, subnational estimates of projected future numbers of 
pregnancies are needed for more effective strategies on human resources and 
infrastructure, while there is a need to link information on pregnancies to 
better information on health facilities in districts and regions so that 
coverage of services can be assessed.
METHODS: This paper outlines demographic mapping methods based on freely 
available data for the production of high resolution datasets depicting 
estimates of numbers of people, women of childbearing age, live births and 
pregnancies, and distribution of comprehensive EmONC facilities in four large 
high burden countries: Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Ethiopia and Tanzania. Satellite 
derived maps of settlements and land cover were constructed and used to 
redistribute areal census counts to produce detailed maps of the distributions 
of women of childbearing age. Household survey data, UN statistics and other 
sources on growth rates, age specific fertility rates, live births, stillbirths 
and abortions were then integrated to convert the population distribution 
datasets to gridded estimates of births and pregnancies.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: These estimates, which can be produced for current, 
past or future years based on standard demographic projections, can provide the 
basis for strategic intelligence, planning services, and provide denominators 
for subnational indicators to track progress. The datasets produced are part of 
national midwifery workforce assessments conducted in collaboration with the 
respective Ministries of Health and the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) 
to identify disparities between population needs, health infrastructure and 
workforce supply. The datasets are available to the respective Ministries as 
part of the UNFPA programme to inform midwifery workforce planning and also 
publicly available through the WorldPop population mapping project.

DOI: 10.1186/1476-072X-13-2
PMCID: PMC3923551
PMID: 24387010 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


306. J Zhejiang Univ Sci B. 2014 Jan;15(1):51-7. doi: 10.1631/jzus.B1300229.

Is there a difference in cognitive development between preschool singletons and 
twins born after intracytoplasmic sperm injection or in vitro fertilization?

Xing LF(1), Qian YL, Chen LT, Zhang FH, Xu XF, Qu F, Zhu YM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Reproductive Medicine, Women's Hospital, School of Medicine, 
Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310021, China.

OBJECTIVE: To explore whether there exist differences in cognitive development 
between singletons and twins born after in vitro fertilization (IVF) or 
intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI).
METHODS: A total of 566 children were recruited for the study, including 388 
children (singletons, n=175; twins, n=213) born after IVF and 178 children 
(singletons, n=87; twins, n=91) born after ICSI. The cognitive development was 
assessed using the Chinese-Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children (C-WISC).
RESULTS: For all pre-term offspring, all the intelligence quotient (IQ) items 
between singletons and twins showed no significant differences no matter if they 
were born after IVF or ICSI. There was a significant difference in the cognitive 
development of IVF-conceived full-term singletons and twins. The twins born 
after IVF obtained significantly lower scores than the singletons in verbal IQ 
(containing information, picture & vocabulary, arithmetic, picture completion, 
comprehension, and language), performance IQ (containing maze, visual analysis, 
object assembly, and performance), and full scale IQ (P<0.05). The cognitive 
development of full-term singletons and twins born after ICSI did not show any 
significant differences. There was no significant difference between the parents 
of the singletons and twins in their characteristics where data were collected, 
including the age of the mothers, the current employment status, the educational 
backgrounds, and areas of residence. There were also no consistent differences 
in the duration of pregnancy, sex composition of the children, age, and height 
between singletons and twins at the time of our study although there existed 
significant differences between the two groups in the sex composition of the 
full-term children born after ICSI (P<0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Compared to the full-term singletons born after IVF, the full-term 
twins have lower cognitive development. The cognitive development of full-term 
singletons and twins born after ICSI did not show any significant differences. 
For all pre-term offspring, singletons and twins born after IVF or ICSI, the 
results of the cognitive development showed no significant differences.

DOI: 10.1631/jzus.B1300229
PMCID: PMC3891118
PMID: 24390744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Compliance with ethics guidelines: Lan-feng 
XING, Yu-li QIAN, Lu-ting CHEN, Fan-hong ZHANG, Xin-fen XU, Fan QU, and Yi-min 
ZHU declare that they have no conflict of interest. All procedures followed were 
in accordance with the ethical standards of the responsible committee on human 
experimentation (institutional and national) and with the Helsinki Declaration 
of 1975, as revised in 2008 (5). Informed consent was obtained from all patients 
for being included in the study.


307. Dev Neurorehabil. 2016;19(1):1-9. doi: 10.3109/17518423.2013.864716. Epub 2014 
Jan 6.

Effectiveness of community-based treatment on clinical outcome in children with 
autism spectrum disorders: An Italian prospective study.

Benvenuto A(1), Battan B(1), Benassi F(2), Gialloreti LE(2)(3), Curatolo P(1).

Author information:
(1)a Department of Neuroscience , Pediatric Neurology Unit, Tor Vergata 
University of Rome , Rome , Italy .
(2)b Centre for Communication and Neurorehabilitation Research-CNAPP , Rome , 
Italy , and.
(3)c Department of Biomedicine and Prevention , University of Rome "Tor Vergata" 
, Rome , Italy.

OBJECTIVE: Little is known about outcomes of Autism Spectrum Disorders (ASDs) 
interventions in real-life settings. The main aim of this naturalistic study was 
to collect real-life data on the actual ASDs treatment practices in Italy.
METHODS: A cohort of 48 children undergoing community-based interventions was 
observed in terms of personal and environmental characteristics, treatment 
typology and outcomes.
RESULTS: An earlier start of treatment was associated with an improvement of 
autistic symptoms, independently from symptoms severity (p < 0.05), but not with 
improvements in terms of intelligence quotient (p = 0.8). Children belonging to 
lower socioeconomic status families began treatment later (48.0 months) than 
those belonging to middle (39.8 months) or upper (39.2 months) classes 
(p < 0.05), and received less hours of treatment.
CONCLUSION: The study showed that ASDs interventions should be observed not only 
in experimental settings, but also in naturalistic environments, so to appraise 
the actual effectiveness of integrating different treatment methods in community 
settings.

DOI: 10.3109/17518423.2013.864716
PMID: 24393078 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


308. Pediatrics. 2014 Feb;133(2):e458-60. doi: 10.1542/peds.2013-0427. Epub 2014 Jan 
6.

Intermittent maple syrup urine disease: two case reports.

Axler O(1), Holmquist P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Chemistry, University and Regional Laboratories Region 
Skåne, Sweden; and.

The presenting symptoms and clinical course of 2 cases of intermittent maple 
syrup urine disease (MSUD) are described. Intermittent MSUD is a potentially 
life-threatening metabolic disorder caused by a deficiency of branched-chain 
α-keto acid dehydrogenase, the enzyme complex that decarboxylates the 3 
branched-chain amino acids. In contrast to classic MSUD, children with the 
intermittent form show normal development with normal intelligence and, when 
asymptomatic, normal levels of branched-chain amino acids. Symptoms usually 
appear between 5 months and 2 years of age, when a trivial infection such as 
otitis media or viral gastroenteritis triggers catabolism of muscle protein. 
Intermittent MSUD should be suspected in cases of common infections with a 
clinically atypical course, especially in children displaying ataxia or marked 
drowsiness.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.2013-0427
PMID: 24394677 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


309. J Learn Disabil. 2015 Sep-Oct;48(5):535-45. doi: 10.1177/0022219413513924. Epub 
2014 Jan 6.

University Students With Poor Reading Comprehension: The Hidden Cognitive 
Processing Deficit.

Georgiou GK(1), Das JP(2).

Author information:
(1)University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada georgiou@ualberta.ca.
(2)University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada.

The present study aimed to examine the nature of the working memory and general 
cognitive ability deficits experienced by university students with a specific 
reading comprehension deficit. A total of 32 university students with poor 
reading comprehension but average word-reading skills and 60 age-matched 
controls with no comprehension difficulties participated in the study. The 
participants were assessed on three verbal working memory tasks that varied in 
terms of their processing demands and on the Das-Naglieri Cognitive Assessment 
System, which was used to operationalize intelligence. The results indicated 
first that the differences between poor and skilled comprehenders on working 
memory were amplified as the processing demands of the tasks increased. In 
addition, although poor comprehenders as a group had average intelligence, they 
experienced significant difficulties in simultaneous and successive processing. 
Considering that working memory and general cognitive ability are highly 
correlated processes, these findings suggest that the observed differences 
between poor and skilled comprehenders are likely a result of a deficient 
information processing system.

© Hammill Institute on Disabilities 2013.

DOI: 10.1177/0022219413513924
PMID: 24395082 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


310. Br J Radiol. 2014 Feb;87(1034):20130494. doi: 10.1259/bjr.20130494. Epub 2014 
Jan 7.

Comparison of the effectiveness of different immobilization systems in different 
body regions using daily megavoltage CT in helical tomotherapy.

Cheng KF(1), Wu VW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiotherapy, Hong Kong Sanatorium and Hospital, Happy Valley, 
Hong Kong.

OBJECTIVE: Effective immobilization is crucial for the accurate delivery of 
radiotherapy. This study aimed to compare the effectiveness of the commonly used 
immobilization systems for different body regions using megavoltage CT (MVCT).
METHODS: Daily treatment set-up data from 212 patients treated by helical 
tomotherapy (Accuray, Sunnyvale, CA) in 6 body regions (52 head and neck, 41 
chest, 38 abdomen, 36 pelvis, 18 breast and 27 cranium) were obtained. Based on 
a verification tool using the pre-treatment MVCT, set-up corrections for each 
patient were recorded. Mean systematic and random errors of lateral, 
longitudinal, vertical and roll directions and three-dimensional vectors were 
compared between immobilization systems of each region.
RESULTS: Smaller set-up deviations were observed in the Orfit system (Orfit 
Industries NV, Wijnegem, Belgium) of the head and neck region, while the 
performance of immobilization systems for the chest, abdomen and pelvis regions 
was similar. Larger differences were noted in the breast group, where the prone 
BodyFIX® system (Medical Intelligence, Medizintechnik GmbH, Schwabmünchen, 
Germany) was less stable than the supine VacLok® system (CIVCO Medical 
Solutions, Orange City, IA).
CONCLUSION: Differences were found between the immobilization systems in the 
head and neck region, in which the Orfit system was relatively more effective, 
whereas the VacLok and BodyFIX systems performed similarly in the chest, abdomen 
and pelvis regions. For the breast case, the supine position with VacLok was 
much more stable than the prone breast technique. The results provided 
references for the estimation of clinical target volume-planning target volume 
margins.
ADVANCES IN KNOWLEDGE: This is the first article on comprehensive comparisons 
performed in immobilization systems for main body regions that provides some 
practical recommendations.

DOI: 10.1259/bjr.20130494
PMCID: PMC4064544
PMID: 24398111 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


311. J Psychiatr Res. 2014 Mar;50:100-105. doi: 10.1016/j.jpsychires.2013.12.010. 
Epub 2013 Dec 28.

Spatial working memory ability in individuals at ultra high risk for psychosis.

Goghari VM(1)(2), Brett C(2), Tabraham P(2), Johns L(2)(3), Valmaggia L(2)(3), 
Broome M(2)(4), Woolley J(2), Bramon E(2), Howes O(2), Byrne M(#)(2), McGuire 
P(#)(2).

Author information:
(1)Departments of Psychology and Psychiatry, Hotchkiss Brain Institute, 
University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta, Canada.
(2)Department of Psychosis Studies, Institute of Psychiatry, King's College of 
London, London, UK.
(3)Department of Psychology, Institute of Psychiatry, King's College of London, 
London, UK.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(#)Contributed equally

The goal of this investigation was to clarify the nature of spatial working 
memory difficulties in individuals at ultra high risk (UHR) for psychosis. We 
evaluated spatial working memory and intelligence in 96 individuals at UHR for 
psychosis, 28 patients with first episode psychosis (FEP), and 23 healthy 
controls. Fourteen UHR individuals developed a psychotic disorder during 
follow-up. Compared to controls, the UHR group was impaired in both the 
short-term maintenance of material and in the effective use of strategy, but not 
more immediate memory. These impairments were not as severe as those in the FEP 
group, as the UHR group performed better than the FEP group. A similar pattern 
of results was found for the intelligence measures. Discriminant function 
analyses demonstrated short-term maintenance of material significantly 
differentiated the UHR and healthy control groups even when accounting for full 
scale intelligence quotient (IQ); whereas full scale IQ significantly 
differentiated the UHR and FEP groups and FEP and control groups. Notably, 
within the UHR group, impaired spatial working memory performance was associated 
with lower global functioning, but not full scale IQ. The subgroup of UHR 
individuals who later developed psychosis was not significantly more impaired on 
any aspect of working memory performance than the group of UHR individuals who 
did not develop psychosis. Given, the relationship between spatial working 
memory deficits and functional outcome, these results indicate that cognitive 
remediation could be useful in individuals at UHR for psychosis to potentially 
improve functioning.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpsychires.2013.12.010
PMCID: PMC4127476
PMID: 24398256 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


312. Transl Psychiatry. 2014 Jan 7;4(1):e341. doi: 10.1038/tp.2013.114.

Human cognitive ability is influenced by genetic variation in components of 
postsynaptic signalling complexes assembled by NMDA receptors and MAGUK 
proteins.

Hill WD(1), Davies G(2), van de Lagemaat LN(3), Christoforou A(4), Marioni 
RE(5), Fernandes CP(4), Liewald DC(1), Croning MD(3), Payton A(6), Craig LC(7), 
Whalley LJ(8), Horan M(9), Ollier W(6), Hansell NK(10), Wright MJ(10), Martin 
NG(10), Montgomery GW(10), Steen VM(4), Le Hellard S(4), Espeseth T(11), 
Lundervold AJ(12), Reinvang I(13), Starr JM(1), Pendleton N(9), Grant SG(3), 
Bates TC(1), Deary IJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, Department of 
Psychology, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.
(2)1] Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, Department of 
Psychology, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK [2] Medical Genetics Section, 
The University of Edinburgh Molecular Medicine Centre, Institute of Genetics and 
Molecular Medicine, Western General Hospital Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.
(3)Genes to Cognition Programme, Centre for Clinical Brain Sciences and Centre 
for Neuroregeneration The University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.
(4)1] Center for Medical Genetics and Molecular Medicine, Haukeland University 
Hospital, Bergen, Norway [2] Dr E. Martens Research Group for Biological 
Psychiatry, Department of Clinical Science, University of Bergen, Bergen, 
Norway.
(5)1] Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, Department of 
Psychology, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK [2] Medical Genetics Section, 
The University of Edinburgh Molecular Medicine Centre, Institute of Genetics and 
Molecular Medicine, Western General Hospital Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK [3] 
Queensland Brain Institute, The University of Queensland, Brisbane, QLD, 
Australia.
(6)Centre for Integrated Genomic Medical Research, University of Manchester, 
Manchester, UK.
(7)Public Health Nutrition Research Group Section of Population Health, 
University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, UK.
(8)Institute of Applied Health Sciences, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, UK.
(9)Centre for Clinical and Cognitive Neurosciences, Institute Brain, Behaviour 
and Mental Health, University of Manchester, Manchester, UK.
(10)Queensland Institute of Medical Research, Brisbane, QLD, Australia.
(11)1] Department of Psychology, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway [2] KG Jebsen 
Centre for Psychosis Research, Oslo University Hospital, Oslo, Norway.
(12)1] Department of Biological and Medical Psychology, University of Bergen, 
Bergen, Norway [2] Kavli Research Centre for Aging and Dementia, Haraldplass 
Hospital, Bergen, Norway.
(13)Department of Psychology, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway.

Differences in general cognitive ability (intelligence) account for 
approximately half of the variation in any large battery of cognitive tests and 
are predictive of important life events including health. Genome-wide analyses 
of common single-nucleotide polymorphisms indicate that they jointly tag between 
a quarter and a half of the variance in intelligence. However, no single 
polymorphism has been reliably associated with variation in intelligence. It 
remains possible that these many small effects might be aggregated in networks 
of functionally linked genes. Here, we tested a network of 1461 genes in the 
postsynaptic density and associated complexes for an enriched association with 
intelligence. These were ascertained in 3511 individuals (the Cognitive Ageing 
Genetics in England and Scotland (CAGES) consortium) phenotyped for general 
cognitive ability, fluid cognitive ability, crystallised cognitive ability, 
memory and speed of processing. By analysing the results of a genome wide 
association study (GWAS) using Gene Set Enrichment Analysis, a significant 
enrichment was found for fluid cognitive ability for the proteins found in the 
complexes of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor complex; P=0.002. Replication was 
sought in two additional cohorts (N=670 and 2062). A meta-analytic P-value of 
0.003 was found when these were combined with the CAGES consortium. The results 
suggest that genetic variation in the macromolecular machines formed by 
membrane-associated guanylate kinase (MAGUK) scaffold proteins and their 
interaction partners contributes to variation in intelligence.

DOI: 10.1038/tp.2013.114
PMCID: PMC3905224
PMID: 24399044 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


313. BMC Neurosci. 2014 Jan 8;15:7. doi: 10.1186/1471-2202-15-7.

Age-related decline in cognitive control: the role of fluid intelligence and 
processing speed.

Manard M, Carabin D, Jaspar M, Collette F(1).

Author information:
(1)Cyclotron Research Centre, University of Liège, Liège, Belgium. 
f.collette@ulg.ac.be.

BACKGROUND: Research on cognitive control suggests an age-related decline in 
proactive control abilities whereas reactive control seems to remain intact. 
However, the reason of the differential age effect on cognitive control 
efficiency is still unclear. This study investigated the potential influence of 
fluid intelligence and processing speed on the selective age-related decline in 
proactive control. Eighty young and 80 healthy older adults were included in 
this study. The participants were submitted to a working memory recognition 
paradigm, assessing proactive and reactive cognitive control by manipulating the 
interference level across items.
RESULTS: Repeated measures ANOVAs and hierarchical linear regressions indicated 
that the ability to appropriately use cognitive control processes during aging 
seems to be at least partially affected by the amount of available cognitive 
resources (assessed by fluid intelligence and processing speed abilities).
CONCLUSIONS: This study highlights the potential role of cognitive resources on 
the selective age-related decline in proactive control, suggesting the 
importance of a more exhaustive approach considering the confounding variables 
during cognitive control assessment.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2202-15-7
PMCID: PMC3890570
PMID: 24401034 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


314. Biomed Tech (Berl). 2014 Jun;59(3):241-9. doi: 10.1515/bmt-2013-0118.

Frequency study of facial electromyography signals with respect to emotion 
recognition.

Selvaraj J, Murugappan M, Wan K, Yaacob S.

Emotional intelligence is one of the key research areas in human-computer 
interaction. This paper reports the development of an emotion recognition system 
using facial electromyogram (EMG) signals focusing the ambiguity on the 
frequency ranges used by different research works. The six emotional states 
(happiness, sadness, fear, surprise, disgust, and neutral) were elicited in 60 
subjects using audio visual stimuli. Statistical features were extracted from 
the signals at high, medium, low, and very low frequency levels. They were then 
classified using four classifiers - naïve Bayes, regression tree, K-nearest 
neighbor, and fuzzy K-nearest neighbor, and the performance of the system at the 
different frequency levels were studied using three metrics, namely, % accuracy, 
sensitivity, and specificity. The post hoc tests in analysis of variance (ANOVA) 
indicate that the features contain significant emotional information at the very 
low-frequency range (<0.08 Hz). Similarly, the performance metrics of the 
classifiers also ensure better recognition rate at very low-frequency range. 
Though this range of frequency has not been used by researchers, the results of 
this work indicate that it should not be ignored. Further investigation of the 
very low frequency range to identify emotional information is still in progress.

DOI: 10.1515/bmt-2013-0118
PMID: 24402883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


315. J Neuropsychol. 2015 Mar;9(1):87-108. doi: 10.1111/jnp.12037. Epub 2014 Jan 10.

Conversion disorder in children and adolescents: a disorder of cognitive 
control.

Kozlowska K(1), Palmer DM, Brown KJ, Scher S, Chudleigh C, Davies F, Williams 
LM.

Author information:
(1)Psychological Medicine, The Children's Hospital at Westmead, New South Wales, 
Australia; Disciplines of Psychiatry and of Paediatrics and Child Health, 
University of Sydney Medical School, New South Wales, Australia; Brain Dynamics 
Centre at Westmead Hospital and Westmead Millennium Institute, Westmead, New 
South Wales, Australia.

OBJECTIVE: To assess cognitive function in children and adolescents presenting 
with acute conversion symptoms.
METHODS: Fifty-seven participants aged 8.5-18 years (41 girls and 16 boys) with 
conversion symptoms and 57 age- and gender-matched healthy controls completed 
the IntegNeuro neurocognitive battery, an estimate of intelligence, and 
self-report measures of subjective emotional distress.
RESULTS: Participants with conversion symptoms showed poorer performance within 
attention, executive function, and memory domains. Poorer performance was 
reflected in more errors on specific tests: Switching of Attention (t(79) = 
2.17, p = .03); Verbal Interference (t(72) = 2.64, p = .01); Go/No-Go (t(73) = 
2.20, p = .03); Memory Recall and Verbal Learning (interference errors for 
memory recall; t(61) = 3.13, p < .01); and short-delay recall (t(75) = 2.05, p < 
.01) and long-delay recall (t(62) = 2.24, p = .03). Poorer performance was also 
reflected in a reduced span of working memory on the Digit Span Test for both 
forward recall span (t(103) = -3.64, p < .001) and backward recall span (t(100) 
= -3.22, p < .01). There was no difference between participants and controls on 
IQ estimate (t(94) = -589, p = .56), and there was no correlation between 
cognitive function and perceived distress.
CONCLUSIONS: Children and adolescents with acute conversion symptoms have a 
reduced capacity to manipulate and retain information, to block interfering 
information, and to inhibit responses, all of which are required for effective 
attention, executive function, and memory.

© 2014 The British Psychological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/jnp.12037
PMID: 24405496 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


316. Autism Res. 2014 Feb;7(1):145-61. doi: 10.1002/aur.1354. Epub 2014 Jan 9.

A randomized controlled trial of the Korean version of the PEERS(®) 
parent-assisted social skills training program for teens with ASD.

Yoo HJ(1), Bahn G, Cho IH, Kim EK, Kim JH, Min JW, Lee WH, Seo JS, Jun SS, Bong 
G, Cho S, Shin MS, Kim BN, Kim JW, Park S, Laugeson EA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Seoul National University Bundang Hospital, 
Seongnam, South Korea; Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul, 
South Korea; Seongnam Child and Adolescent Community Mental Health Center, 
Seongnam, South Korea.

Impaired social functioning is a hallmark feature of autism spectrum disorder 
(ASD), often requiring treatment throughout the life span. PEERS(®) (Program for 
the Education and Enrichment of Relational Skills) is a parent-assisted social 
skills training for teens with ASD. Although PEERS(®) has an established 
evidence base in improving the social skills of adolescents and young adults 
with ASD in North America, the efficacy of this treatment has yet to be 
established in cross-cultural validation trials. The objective of this study is 
to examine the feasibility and treatment efficacy of a Korean version of 
PEERS(®) for enhancing social skills through a randomized controlled trial 
(RCT).The English version of the PEERS(®) Treatment Manual (Laugeson & Frankel, 
2010) was translated into Korean and reviewed by 21 child mental health 
professionals. Items identified as culturally sensitive were surveyed by 447 
middle school students, and material was modified accordingly. Participants 
included 47 teens between 12 and 18 years of age with a diagnosis of ASD and a 
verbal intelligence quotient (IQ) ≥ 65. Eligible teens were randomly assigned to 
a treatment group (TG) or delayed treatment control group (CG). Primary outcome 
measures included questionnaires and direct observations quantifying social 
ability and problems directly related to ASD. Secondary outcome measures 
included scales for depressive symptoms, anxiety, and other behavioral problems. 
Rating scales for parental depressive symptoms and anxiety were examined to 
detect changes in parental psychosocial functioning throughout the PEERS(®) 
treatment. Independent samples t-tests revealed no significant differences at 
baseline across the TG and CG conditions with regard to age (14.04 ± 1.64 and 
13.54 ± 1.50 years), IQ (99.39 ± 18.09 & 100.67 ± 16.97), parental education, 
socioeconomic status, or ASD symptoms (p < 0.05), respectively. Results for 
treatment outcome suggest that the TG showed significant improvement in 
communication and social interaction domain scores on the Autism Diagnostic 
Observation Schedule, interpersonal relationship and play/leisure time on the 
subdomain scores of the Korean version of the Vineland Adaptive Behavior Scale 
(p's < 0.01), social skills knowledge total scores on the Test of Adolescent 
Social Skills Knowledge-Revised (p < 0.01), and decreased depressive symptoms on 
the Child Depression Inventory following treatment (p < 0.05). Analyses of 
parental outcome reveal a significant decrease in maternal state anxiety in the 
TG after controlling for potential confounding variables (p < 0.05). Despite 
cultural and linguistic differences, the PEERS(®) social skills intervention 
appears to be efficacious for teens with ASD in Korea with modest cultural 
adjustment. In an RCT, participants receiving the PEERS(®) treatment showed 
significant improvement in social skills knowledge, interpersonal skills, and 
play/leisure skills, as well as a decrease in depressive symptoms and ASD 
symptoms. This study represents one of only a few cross-cultural validation 
trials of an established evidence-based treatment for adolescents with ASD.

© 2014 International Society for Autism Research, Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/aur.1354
PMID: 24408892 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


317. Cereb Cortex. 2015 Jun;25(6):1608-17. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bht357. Epub 2014 Jan 
9.

Changes in thickness and surface area of the human cortex and their relationship 
with intelligence.

Schnack HG(1), van Haren NE(1), Brouwer RM(1), Evans A(2), Durston S(1), Boomsma 
DI(3), Kahn RS(1), Hulshoff Pol HE(1).

Author information:
(1)Rudolf Magnus Institute of Neuroscience, Brain Division, University Medical 
Centre Utrecht, 3584 CX Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(2)McConnell Brain Imaging Centre, Montreal Neurological Institute, McGill 
University, Montreal, QC, Canada H3A 2B4 and.
(3)Department of Biological Psychology, VU University Amsterdam, 1081 BT 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Changes in cortical thickness over time have been related to intelligence, but 
whether changes in cortical surface area are related to general cognitive 
functioning is unknown. We therefore examined the relationship between 
intelligence quotient (IQ) and changes in cortical thickness and surface over 
time in 504 healthy subjects. At 10 years of age, more intelligent children have 
a slightly thinner cortex than children with a lower IQ. This relationship 
becomes more pronounced with increasing age: with higher IQ, a faster thinning 
of the cortex is found over time. In the more intelligent young adults, this 
relationship reverses so that by the age of 42 a thicker cortex is associated 
with higher intelligence. In contrast, cortical surface is larger in more 
intelligent children at the age of 10. The cortical surface is still expanding, 
reaching its maximum area during adolescence. With higher IQ, cortical expansion 
is completed at a younger age; and once completed, surface area decreases at a 
higher rate. These findings suggest that intelligence may be more related to the 
magnitude and timing of changes in brain structure during development than to 
brain structure per se, and that the cortex is never completed but shows 
continuing intelligence-dependent development.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. 
For Permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bht357
PMID: 24408955 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


318. Front Hum Neurosci. 2014 Jan 8;7:932. doi: 10.3389/fnhum.2013.00932. eCollection 
2014.

Does IQ affect the functional brain network involved in pseudoword reading in 
students with reading disability? A magnetoencephalography study.

Simos PG(1), Rezaie R(2), Papanicolaou AC(2), Fletcher JM(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, School of Medicine, University of Crete Herakleion, 
Crete, Greece.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, Division of Clinical Neurosciences, College of 
Medicine, University of Tennessee Health Science Center Memphis, TN, USA ; 
Neuroscience Institute-Le Bonheur Children's Hospital Memphis, TN, USA.
(3)Department of Psychology, University of Houston Houston, TX, USA.

The study examined whether individual differences in performance and verbal IQ 
affect the profiles of reading-related regional brain activation in 127 students 
experiencing reading difficulties and typical readers. Using 
magnetoencephalography in a pseudoword read-aloud task, we compared brain 
activation profiles of students experiencing word-level reading difficulties who 
did (n = 29) or did not (n = 36) meet the IQ-reading achievement discrepancy 
criterion. Typical readers assigned to a lower-IQ (n = 18) or a higher IQ (n = 
44) subgroup served as controls. Minimum norm estimates of regional cortical 
activity revealed that the degree of hypoactivation in the left superior 
temporal and supramarginal gyri in both RD subgroups was not affected by IQ. 
Moreover, IQ did not moderate the positive association between degree of 
activation in the left fusiform gyrus and phonological decoding ability. We did 
find, however, that the hypoactivation of the left pars opercularis in RD was 
restricted to lower-IQ participants. In accordance with previous morphometric 
and fMRI studies, degree of activity in inferior frontal, and inferior parietal 
regions correlated with IQ across reading ability subgroups. Results are 
consistent with current views questioning the relevance of IQ-discrepancy 
criteria in the diagnosis of dyslexia.

DOI: 10.3389/fnhum.2013.00932
PMCID: PMC3884211
PMID: 24409136


319. J Environ Health Sci Eng. 2014 Jan 10;12(1):26. doi: 10.1186/2052-336X-12-26.

Assessment of parasitic pollution in the coastal seawater of Gaza city.

Hilles AH, Al Hindi AI(1), Abu Safieh YA.

Author information:
(1)Medical Laboratory Sciences Department, Faculty of Health Sciences, Islamic 
University of Gaza, P,O, Box 108, Gaza, Palestine. ahindi@iugaza.edu.

BACKGROUND: The main objective of the study was the assessment of the prevalence 
and the identification of species of human gastrointestinal parasites as an 
indicator of the pollution of the seashore of Gaza City.
METHODS: The investigation was conducted by analysis of the parasitic 
contamination of seawater along the study area. A total of 52 samples of 
seawater were analyzed during the summer period; from June to October 2011. The 
study area was divided into six zones (A, B, C, D, E and F) according to 
specific criteria such as the presence of the wastewater discharge points and 
other geographical characteristics.
RESULTS: The results show that about 48% of the seawater samples from the 
shoreline region of Gaza City were contaminated with parasites. Zones A, B and D 
(mouth of Wadi Gaza, Al Sheikh Ejleen discharge and Al Shalehat discharge points 
respectively) have the highest level of parasitic contamination, while, zones C 
and E (From Al-Baydar restaurant to Khalel Alwazer Mosque and the basin of the 
Gaza marina respectively) had a lower level of contamination and zone F (From 
the northern part of the Gaza marina to the Intelligence Building) was 
uncontaminated. The parasitic species found were: Ascaris lumbricoides, Giardia 
lamblia, Strongyloides stercoralis, Hymenolepis nana, Entamoeba 
histolytica/dispar and Cryptosporidium parvum.
CONCLUSIONS: The present study revealed a high level of contamination with 
parasites at most of the points which were investigated along the Gaza City 
coast line.

DOI: 10.1186/2052-336X-12-26
PMCID: PMC3924707
PMID: 24410999


320. Epilepsy Behav. 2014 Feb;31:143-8. doi: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2013.11.021. Epub 2014 
Jan 8.

Cognitive and adaptive evaluation of 21 consecutive patients with Dravet 
syndrome.

Villeneuve N(1), Laguitton V(2), Viellard M(3), Lépine A(4), Chabrol B(5), 
Dravet C(6), Milh M(7).

Author information:
(1)CINAPSE, Hôpital Henri Gastaut Centre Saint Paul, 13009 Marseille, France; 
Centre Ressource Autisme, Hopital Sainte Marguerite, 13009 Marseille, France; 
APHM, Service de neurologie pédiatrique, Hôpital de la Timone, 13005 Marseille, 
France.
(2)CINAPSE, Hôpital Henri Gastaut Centre Saint Paul, 13009 Marseille, France.
(3)Centre Ressource Autisme, Hopital Sainte Marguerite, 13009 Marseille, France.
(4)CINAPSE, Hôpital Henri Gastaut Centre Saint Paul, 13009 Marseille, France; 
APHM, Service de neurologie pédiatrique, Hôpital de la Timone, 13005 Marseille, 
France.
(5)APHM, Service de neurologie pédiatrique, Hôpital de la Timone, 13005 
Marseille, France.
(6)Child Neurology and Psychiatry, Catholic University, Rome, Italy.
(7)APHM, Service de neurologie pédiatrique, Hôpital de la Timone, 13005 
Marseille, France; INSERM, UMR 910, Aix-Marseille Université, 13005 Marseille, 
France.

In order to assess the cognitive and adaptive profiles of school-aged patients 
with Dravet syndrome (DS), we proposed to evaluate the intelligence and adaptive 
scores in twenty-one 6- to 10-year-old patients with DS followed in our 
institution between 1997 and 2013. Fourteen patients were tested using the 
Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children (WISC) and the Vineland Adaptive 
Behavioral Scales (VABS); 6 patients could not be tested with the WISC and were 
tested with the VABS only, and one was tested with the WISC only. Data regarding 
the epilepsy were retrospectively collected. Statistical analysis (Spearman rank 
order and Pearson correlation coefficient) was used to correlate early epilepsy 
characteristics with the cognitive and adaptive scores. Sodium channel, neuronal 
alpha-subunit type 1 (SCN1A) was mutated in 19 out of 21 patients. After the age 
of 6years, none of the DS patients had a normal intelligence quotient (IQ) using 
WISC (age at the testing period: mean=100±5; median=105months; mean total 
IQ=47±3; n=15). Only five patients had a verbal and/or a non verbal IQ of more 
than 60 (points). Their cognitive profile was characterized by an attention 
deficit, an inability to inhibit impulsive responses, perseverative responses 
and deficit in planning function. Administering the Vineland Adaptive Behavioral 
Scales in the same period, we showed that socialization skills were 
significantly higher than communication and autonomy skills (age at the testing 
period: mean=100±4; median=100months; n=20). We did not find any significant 
correlation between the IQ or developmental quotient assessed between 6 and 
10years of age and the quantitative and qualitative parameters of epilepsy 
during the first two years of life in this small group of patients. Despite an 
overall moderate cognitive deficit in this group of patients, the Vineland 
Adaptive Behavioral Scales described an adaptive/behavioral profile with low 
communication and autonomy capacities, whereas the socialization skills were 
more preserved. This profile was different from the one usually found in young 
patients with autism and may require specific interventions.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2013.11.021
PMID: 24412860 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


321. Sci Eng Ethics. 2015 Feb;21(1):29-40. doi: 10.1007/s11948-013-9513-9. Epub 2014 
Jan 11.

AIonAI: a humanitarian law of artificial intelligence and robotics.

Ashrafian H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery and Cancer, St Mary's Hospital, Imperial College 
London, 10th Floor QEQM-Building, Praed Street, London, W2 1NY, UK, 
h.ashrafian@imperial.ac.uk.

The enduring progression of artificial intelligence and cybernetics offers an 
ever-closer possibility of rational and sentient robots. The ethics and morals 
deriving from this technological prospect have been considered in the philosophy 
of artificial intelligence, the design of automatons with roboethics and the 
contemplation of machine ethics through the concept of artificial moral agents. 
Across these categories, the robotics laws first proposed by Isaac Asimov in the 
twentieth century remain well-recognised and esteemed due to their specification 
of preventing human harm, stipulating obedience to humans and incorporating 
robotic self-protection. However the overwhelming predominance in the study of 
this field has focussed on human-robot interactions without fully considering 
the ethical inevitability of future artificial intelligences communicating 
together and has not addressed the moral nature of robot-robot interactions. A 
new robotic law is proposed and termed AIonAI or artificial 
intelligence-on-artificial intelligence. This law tackles the overlooked area 
where future artificial intelligences will likely interact amongst themselves, 
potentially leading to exploitation. As such, they would benefit from adopting a 
universal law of rights to recognise inherent dignity and the inalienable rights 
of artificial intelligences. Such a consideration can help prevent exploitation 
and abuse of rational and sentient beings, but would also importantly reflect on 
our moral code of ethics and the humanity of our civilisation.

DOI: 10.1007/s11948-013-9513-9
PMID: 24414678 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


322. J Exp Psychol Learn Mem Cogn. 2014 May;40(3):882-91. doi: 10.1037/a0035544. Epub 
2014 Jan 13.

Trial-to-trial fluctuations in attentional state and their relation to 
intelligence.

Unsworth N(1), McMillan BD(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology.

Trial-to-trial fluctuations in attentional state while performing measures of 
intelligence were examined in the current study. Participants performed various 
measures of fluid and crystallized intelligence while also providing attentional 
state ratings prior to each trial. It was found that pre-trial attentional state 
ratings strongly predicted subsequent trial performance on the fluid 
intelligence measures, such that when participants rated their current 
attentional state as highly focused on the current task, performance tended to 
be high compared to when participants reported their current attentional state 
as being low and unfocused on the current task. Furthermore, overall attentional 
state ratings and variability in attentional state ratings were moderately 
correlated with overall levels of performance on the fluid intelligence 
measures. However, attentional state ratings did not predict performance on the 
measure of crystallized intelligence. These results suggest a strong link 
between variation in attention state and variation in fluid intelligence as 
postulated by a number of recent theories.

PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/a0035544
PMID: 24417327 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


323. Psychiatry Clin Neurosci. 2014 Jun;68(6):456-62. doi: 10.1111/pcn.12157. Epub 
2014 Feb 26.

Functional polymorphism (C-824T) of the tyrosine hydroxylase gene affects IQ in 
schizophrenia.

Horiguchi M(1), Ohi K, Hashimoto R, Hao Q, Yasuda Y, Yamamori H, Fujimoto M, 
Umeda-Yano S, Takeda M, Ichinose H.

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Bioscience and Biotechnology, Tokyo Institute of 
Technology, Yokohama.

AIMS: Progressive cognitive decline has been an important issue in the treatment 
and care of patients with schizophrenia. Tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) is the 
rate-limiting enzyme for the biosynthesis of catecholamine, including dopamine 
and noradrenaline. In this report, we examined a possible association of a 
genetic variant in the TH promoter region.
METHODS: Association of a genetic variant in the TH promoter region, C-824T 
(rs10770141), with intellectual ability in 132 patients with schizophrenia and 
282 healthy subjects was examined. The transcriptional activity of the plasmids 
harboring the TH promoter region with either C or T nucleotide at -824 was 
assayed using a luciferase gene as a reporter.
RESULTS: We found significant effects of the genotype on the full-scale IQ, 
verbal IQ, and performance IQ, in patients with schizophrenia. IQ was lower in 
individuals with the C/C genotype than those with T carriers. The plasmid with 
the T allele at -824 showed higher transcriptional activity than that with the C 
allele in a transient transfection experiment using a luciferase gene as a 
reporter, implying that the T carriers may have higher TH activities and retain 
higher levels of catecholamines in the brain.
CONCLUSIONS: The present data suggest that the biosynthesis of catecholamine by 
the action of TH should be deeply involved in decreased intellectual ability in 
patients with schizophrenia. This is the first report, as far as we know, 
showing a correlation between TH expression and IQ in humans.

© 2014 The Authors. Psychiatry and Clinical Neurosciences © 2014 Japanese 
Society of Psychiatry and Neurology.

DOI: 10.1111/pcn.12157
PMID: 24417771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


324. Neuropsychologia. 2014 Apr;56:90-100. doi: 
10.1016/j.neuropsychologia.2014.01.004. Epub 2014 Jan 11.

Gray-white matter and cerebrospinal fluid volume differences in children with 
Specific Language Impairment and/or Reading Disability.

Girbau-Massana D(1), Garcia-Marti G(2), Marti-Bonmati L(2), Schwartz RG(3).

Author information:
(1)University Jaume I, Department of Basic, Clinical & Biological Psychology, 
Vicent Sos Baynat, 12071 Castelló, Spain. Electronic address: girbau@psb.uji.es.
(2)Hospital Quirón-Cibersam/UV, Valencia, Spain.
(3)City University of New York - GC, NY, USA.

We studied gray-white matter and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) alterations that may 
be critical for language, through an optimized voxel-based morphometry 
evaluation in children with Specific Language Impairment (SLI), compared to 
Typical Language Development (TLD). Ten children with SLI (8;5-10;9) and 14 
children with TLD (8;2-11;8) participated. They received a comprehensive 
language and reading test battery. We also analyzed a subgroup of six children 
with SLI+RD (Reading Disability). Brain images from 3-Tesla MRIs were analyzed 
with intelligence, age, gender, and total intracranial volume as covariates. 
Children with SLI or SLI+RD exhibited a significant lower overall gray matter 
volume than children with TLD. Particularly, children with SLI showed a 
significantly lower volume of gray matter compared to children with TLD in the 
right postcentral parietal gyrus (BA4), and left and right medial occipital gyri 
(BA19). The group with SLI also exhibited a significantly greater volume of gray 
matter in the right superior occipital gyrus (BA19), which may reflect a brain 
reorganization to compensate for their lower volumes at medial occipital gyri. 
Children with SLI+RD, compared to children with TLD, showed a significantly 
lower volume of: (a) gray matter in the right postcentral parietal gyrus; and 
(b) white matter in the right inferior longitudinal fasciculus (RILF), which 
interconnects the temporal and occipital lobes. Children with TLD exhibited a 
significantly lower CSF volume than children with SLI and children with SLI+RD 
respectively, who had somewhat smaller volumes of gray matter allowing for more 
CSF volume. The significant lower gray matter volume at the right postcentral 
parietal gyrus and greater cerebrospinal fluid volume may prove to be unique 
markers for SLI. We discuss the association of poor knowledge/visual 
representations and language input to brain development. Our comorbid study 
showed that a significant lower volume of white matter in the right inferior 
longitudinal fasciculus may be unique to children with SLI and Reading 
Disability. It was significantly associated to reading comprehension of 
sentences and receptive language composite z-score, especially receptive 
vocabulary and oral comprehension of stories.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuropsychologia.2014.01.004
PMID: 24418156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


325. J Intellect Disabil Res. 2014 Nov;58(11):1004-14. doi: 10.1111/jir.12109. Epub 
2014 Jan 14.

Intellectual disability in young people in custody in New South Wales, Australia 
- prevalence and markers.

Haysom L(1), Indig D, Moore E, Gaskin C.

Author information:
(1)Adolescent Health, Justice Health & Forensic Mental Health Network, Sydney, 
NSW, Australia.

BACKGROUND: Intellectual disability (ID) is known to be more common in 
incarcerated groups, especially incarcerated youth. Aboriginal young people have 
higher rates of ID, and make up half of all youth in juvenile custody in New 
South Wales (NSW), Australia. We aimed to describe the prevalence of possible ID 
and borderline intellectual functioning (BIF) in young people in NSW custody, 
and to describe the association between possible ID and Aboriginality after 
adjusting for the inequalities in social disadvantage.
METHODS: Baseline study of all youth in NSW Custodial Centres between August and 
October 2009, with 18-month follow-up. Using Wechsler Intelligence Scale for 
Children - Fourth Edition (WISC-IV) and Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale - 
Fourth Edition (WAIS-IV) cognitive assessments, possible ID was defined as 
Extremely Low Intellectual Quotient range (Full Scale Intellectual Quotient, 
FSIQ < 70), and possible BIF was defined as Borderline IQ range (FSIQ < 80). 
Risk factors for possible ID and BIF included age, gender, Aboriginality, 
socio-economic disadvantage, offending history and psychological disorders.
RESULTS: N = 295 (65%) of all young people in NSW custody completed cognitive 
and psychological assessments (87% male, 50% Aboriginal, average age 17 years). 
Almost one half (45.8%) of young people had borderline or lower intellectual 
functioning (by IQ assessment), and 14% had an IQ in the extremely low range 
(FSIQ < 70), indicating a possible ID. Aboriginal participants were three times 
more likely than non-Aboriginal participants to have a possible ID, but after 
accounting for the excess disadvantage in the Aboriginal group, Aboriginality 
was no longer a marker of ID. Incarceration from a young age and psychosis were 
significantly associated with possible ID in Aboriginal participants, compared 
with Aboriginal participants first incarcerated at a later age, and Aboriginal 
participants without psychosis.
CONCLUSION: The inequalities in criminal justice between Aboriginal and 
non-Aboriginal youth may exacerbate or contribute to the intellectual impairment 
of those incarcerated from a young age. Aboriginal young people with psychosis 
are also at high risk of cognitive impairments that might indicate a possible 
co-morbid ID, and these patients should be diverted at court into community 
assessment services, rather than incarcerated. These results highlight a need 
for better and earlier identification of young people (particularly Aboriginal 
youth) at risk of ID and other co-morbidities in the juvenile justice system.

© 2014 MENCAP and International Association of the Scientific Study of 
Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jir.12109
PMID: 24422559 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


326. Sleep Med. 2014 Feb;15(2):213-8. doi: 10.1016/j.sleep.2013.08.793. Epub 2013 Dec 
13.

Sleep disorders in children with cerebral palsy: neurodevelopmental and 
behavioral correlates.

Romeo DM(1), Brogna C(1), Quintiliani M(1), Baranello G(2), Pagliano E(2), 
Casalino T(2), Sacco A(1), Ricci D(1), Mallardi M(1), Musto E(1), Sivo S(1), 
Cota F(3), Battaglia D(1), Bruni O(4), Mercuri E(5).

Author information:
(1)Paediatric Neurology Unit, Catholic University, Rome, Italy.
(2)Developmental Neurology Unit, C. Besta Neurological Institute Foundation, 
Milan, Italy.
(3)Neonatal Unit, Catholic University, Rome, Italy.
(4)Centre for Pediatric Sleep Disorders, Department of Social and Developmental 
Psychology - Sapienza University, Rome, Italy.
(5)Paediatric Neurology Unit, Catholic University, Rome, Italy. Electronic 
address: mercuri@rm.unicatt.it.

OBJECTIVES: We aimed to estimate the frequency of sleep disorders in children 
with cerebral palsy (CP) using the Sleep Disturbance Scale for Children (SDSC) 
and to evaluate the relations between sleep disorders and motor, cognitive, and 
behavioral problems.
METHODS: One hundred and sixty-five children with CP ages 6-16 years (mean age, 
11years) were assessed using the SDSC, the Gross Motor Function Classification 
System (GMFCS), the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children and the Child 
Behavior Check List (CBCL) to assess sleep, motor, cognitive, and behavioral 
problems, respectively.
RESULTS: An abnormal total sleep score was found in 19% of children with CP; 
more than 40% of children had an abnormal score on at least one SDSC factor. The 
SDSC total score was significantly associated (P<.01) with mental retardation, 
epilepsy, CBCL scores, and level 5 on the GMFCS.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results confirm that sleep disorders are common in children 
with cerebral palsy. The relationship between motor and cognitive behavior and 
epilepsy should be further explored to better understand how these factors 
influence one another to identify effective treatments and to improve the 
well-being of the child.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.sleep.2013.08.793
PMID: 24424102 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


327. Epilepsy Behav. 2014 Feb;31:160-6. doi: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2013.12.015. Epub 2014 
Jan 11.

Determinants of quality of life in people with epilepsy in Serbia.

Milovanović M(1), Martinović Ž(2), Tošković O(3).

Author information:
(1)Department for Epilepsy and Clinical Neurophysiology, Institute of Mental 
Health, Palmotićeva 37, 11000 Belgrade, Serbia. Electronic address: 
jmtmilov@eunet.rs.
(2)Department for Epilepsy and Clinical Neurophysiology, Institute of Mental 
Health, Palmotićeva 37, 11000 Belgrade, Serbia; Belgrade University Medical 
School, Dr Subotića 8, 11000 Belgrade, Serbia.
(3)Faculty of Philosophy, Department for Psychology - Statistics, University of 
Belgrade, Čika Ljubina 18-20, 11000 Belgrade, Serbia.

PURPOSE: This study aimed at finding determinants of quality of life in people 
with epilepsy (PWE) living in Belgrade, Serbia.
METHOD: In this study, we recruited consecutive adults with epilepsy attending 
our outpatient department. Adult patients (age range: 18-65years) of normal 
intelligence and without any progressive neurological disease or psychiatric 
disorder were included in the study. They completed the following 
questionnaires: QOLIE-31 Inventory (Serbian version), Beck's Depression 
Inventory-II, Beck's Anxiety Inventory, Symptom Check List-90, and Neurotoxicity 
Scale-II. Hierarchical multiple regression analysis was performed to assess the 
predictive effects of some factors on QOLIE-31 Inventory.
RESULTS: The mean QOLIE-31 score of 203 patients who completed the 
questionnaires was 70.64±17.74. Sociodemographic factors (age, sex, education, 
and employment) did not significantly predict QOLIE-31 score. Significant 
determinants of quality of life were clinical characteristics - seizure severity 
and etiology of epilepsy - accounting for 30.9% of the variance, depressive and 
anxiety symptoms accounting for 42.8% of the variance, and cognitive effects of 
antiepileptic drugs, accounting for 1.5% above other variables.
CONCLUSIONS: The results suggest that seizure severity and etiology of epilepsy, 
depressive and anxiety symptoms, and cognitive adverse medication effects are 
main determinants of quality of life in this population of PWE.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2013.12.015
PMID: 24424279 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


328. Transl Psychiatry. 2014 Jan 14;4(1):e343. doi: 10.1038/tp.2013.113.

Emotional contagion for pain is intact in autism spectrum disorders.

Hadjikhani N(1), Zürcher NR(2), Rogier O(3), Hippolyte L(3), Lemonnier E(4), 
Ruest T(3), Ward N(5), Lassalle A(3), Gillberg N(6), Billstedt E(6), Helles 
A(6), Gillberg C(6), Solomon P(7), Prkachin KM(8), Gillberg C(6).

Author information:
(1)1] Brain Mind Institute, EPFL, Lausanne, Switzerland [2] Gillberg 
Neuropsychiatry Centre, Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, 
Gothenburg, Sweden [3] Athinoula A. Martinos Center for Biomedical Imaging, 
Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Charlestown, MA, USA.
(2)1] Brain Mind Institute, EPFL, Lausanne, Switzerland [2] Athinoula A. 
Martinos Center for Biomedical Imaging, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard 
Medical School, Charlestown, MA, USA.
(3)Brain Mind Institute, EPFL, Lausanne, Switzerland.
(4)Laboratory of Neurosciences of Brest, EA4685, University of Bretagne 
Occidentale, Brest, France.
(5)Athinoula A. Martinos Center for Biomedical Imaging, Massachusetts General 
Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Charlestown, MA, USA.
(6)Gillberg Neuropsychiatry Centre, Sahlgrenska Academy, University of 
Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(7)School of Rehabilitation Science, McMaster University, Hamilton, ON, Canada.
(8)Health Psychology Laboratory, University of Northern British Columbia, Prince 
George, BC, Canada.

Perceiving others in pain generally leads to empathic concern, consisting of 
both emotional and cognitive processes. Empathy deficits have been considered as 
an element contributing to social difficulties in individuals with autism 
spectrum disorders (ASD). Here, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging 
and short video clips of facial expressions of people experiencing pain to 
examine the neural substrates underlying the spontaneous empathic response to 
pain in autism. Thirty-eight adolescents and adults of normal intelligence 
diagnosed with ASD and 35 matched controls participated in the study. In 
contrast to general assumptions, we found no significant differences in brain 
activation between ASD individuals and controls during the perception of pain 
experienced by others. Both groups showed similar levels of activation in areas 
associated with pain sharing, evidencing the presence of emotional empathy and 
emotional contagion in participants with autism as well as in controls. 
Differences between groups could be observed at a more liberal statistical 
threshold, and revealed increased activations in areas involved in cognitive 
reappraisal in ASD participants compared with controls. Scores of emotional 
empathy were positively correlated with brain activation in areas involved in 
embodiment of pain in ASD group only. Our findings show that simulation 
mechanisms involved in emotional empathy are preserved in high-functioning 
individuals with autism, and suggest that increased reappraisal may have a role 
in their apparent lack of caring behavior.

DOI: 10.1038/tp.2013.113
PMCID: PMC3905223
PMID: 24424389 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


329. Nat Rev Genet. 2014 Feb;15(2):133-41. doi: 10.1038/nrg3585. Epub 2014 Jan 16.

The role of de novo mutations in the genetics of autism spectrum disorders.

Ronemus M(1), Iossifov I(1), Levy D(1), Wigler M(1).

Author information:
(1)Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, 1 Bungtown Road, Cold Spring Harbor, New York 
11724, USA.

The identification of the genetic components of autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) 
has advanced rapidly in recent years, particularly with the demonstration of de 
novo mutations as an important source of causality. We review these developments 
in light of genetic models for ASDs. We consider the number of genetic loci that 
underlie ASDs and the relative contributions from different mutational classes, 
and we discuss possible mechanisms by which these mutations might lead to 
dysfunction. We update the two-class risk genetic model for autism, especially 
in regard to children with high intelligence quotients.

DOI: 10.1038/nrg3585
PMID: 24430941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


330. Front Psychol. 2014 Jan 7;4:1010. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2013.01010. eCollection 
2014 Jan 7.

Cognitive training with casual video games: points to consider.

Baniqued PL(1), Kranz MB(1), Voss MW(2), Lee H(3), Cosman JD(4), Severson J(5), 
Kramer AF(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Beckman Institute for Advanced Science and 
Technology, University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign Urbana, IL, USA.
(2)Department of Psychology, University of Iowa Iowa City, IA, USA.
(3)Brain Plasticity Institute San Francisco, CA, USA.
(4)Department of Psychology, Vanderbilt University Nashville, TN, USA.
(5)Digital Artefacts LLC Iowa City, IA, USA.

Brain training programs have proliferated in recent years, with claims that 
video games or computer-based tasks can broadly enhance cognitive function. 
However, benefits are commonly seen only in trained tasks. Assessing generalized 
improvement and practicality of laboratory exercises complicates interpretation 
and application of findings. In this study, we addressed these issues by using 
active control groups, training tasks that more closely resemble real-world 
demands and multiple tests to determine transfer of training. We examined 
whether casual video games can broadly improve cognition, and selected training 
games from a study of the relationship between game performance and cognitive 
abilities. A total of 209 young adults were randomized into a working 
memory-reasoning group, an adaptive working memory-reasoning group, an active 
control game group, and a no-contact control group. Before and after 15 h of 
training, participants completed tests of reasoning, working memory, attention, 
episodic memory, perceptual speed, and self-report measures of executive 
function, game experience, perceived improvement, knowledge of brain training 
research, and game play outside the laboratory. Participants improved on the 
training games, but transfer to untrained tasks was limited. No group showed 
gains in reasoning, working memory, episodic memory, or perceptual speed, but 
the working memory-reasoning groups improved in divided attention, with better 
performance in an attention-demanding game, a decreased attentional blink and 
smaller trail-making costs. Perceived improvements did not differ across 
training groups and those with low reasoning ability at baseline showed larger 
gains. Although there are important caveats, our study sheds light on the mixed 
effects in the training and transfer literature and offers a novel and 
potentially practical training approach. Still, more research is needed to 
determine the real-world benefits of computer programs such as casual games.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2013.01010
PMCID: PMC3882717
PMID: 24432009


331. Nano Lett. 2014 Feb 12;14(2):933-8. doi: 10.1021/nl404335p. Epub 2014 Jan 21.

Artificial sensing intelligence with silicon nanowires for ultraselective 
detection in the gas phase.

Wang B(1), Cancilla JC, Torrecilla JS, Haick H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering and Russell Berrie Nanotechnology 
Institute, Technion-Israel Institute of Technology , Haifa 3200003, Israel.

The use of molecularly modified Si nanowire field effect transistors (SiNW FETs) 
for selective detection in the liquid phase has been successfully demonstrated. 
In contrast, selective detection of chemical species in the gas phase has been 
rather limited. In this paper, we show that the application of artificial 
intelligence on deliberately controlled SiNW FET device parameters can provide 
high selectivity toward specific volatile organic compounds (VOCs). The obtained 
selectivity allows identifying VOCs in both single-component and multicomponent 
environments as well as estimating the constituent VOC concentrations. The 
effect of the structural properties (functional group and/or chain length) of 
the molecular modifications on the accuracy of VOC detection is presented and 
discussed. The reported results have the potential to serve as a launching pad 
for the use of SiNW FET sensors in real-world counteracting conditions and/or 
applications.

DOI: 10.1021/nl404335p
PMID: 24437965


332. Sci Justice. 2014 Jan;54(1):32-41. doi: 10.1016/j.scijus.2013.08.006. Epub 2013 
Sep 12.

The use of organic and inorganic impurities found in MDMA police seizures in a 
drug intelligence perspective.

Morelato M(1), Beavis A(1), Tahtouh M(2), Ribaux O(3), Kirkbride P(4), Roux 
C(5).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Forensic Science, University of Technology, Sydney, Broadway, NSW, 
Australia.
(2)Forensics, Australian Federal Police, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(3)Ecole des Sciences Criminelles, Université de Lausanne, Lausanne-Dorigny, 
Switzerland.
(4)School of Chemical and Physical Sciences, Flinders University, Bedford Park, 
South Australia, Australia.
(5)Centre for Forensic Science, University of Technology, Sydney, Broadway, NSW, 
Australia. Electronic address: Claude.Roux@uts.edu.au.

Traditional forensic drug profiling involves numerous analytical techniques, and 
the whole process is typically costly and may be time consuming. The aim of this 
study was to investigate the possibility of prioritising techniques utilised at 
the Australian Federal Police (AFP) for the chemical profiling of 
3,4-methylenedioxymethylamphetamine (MDMA). The outcome would provide the AFP 
with the ability to obtain more timely and valuable results that could be used 
in an intelligence perspective. Correlation coefficients were used to obtain a 
similarity degree between a population of linked samples (within seizures) and a 
population of unlinked samples (between different seizures) and discrimination 
between the two populations was ultimately achieved. The results showed that gas 
chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) was well suited as a single technique 
to detect links between seizures and could be used in priority for operational 
intelligence purposes. Furthermore, the method was applied to seizures known or 
suspected (through their case information) to be linked to each other to assess 
the chemical similarity between samples. It was found that half of the seizures 
previously linked by the case number were also linked by the chemical profile. 
This procedure was also able to highlight links between cases that were 
previously unsuspected and retrospectively confirmed by circumstantial 
information. The findings are finally discussed in the broader forensic 
intelligence context, with a focus on how they could be successfully 
incorporated into investigations and in an intelligence-led policing perspective 
in order to understand trafficking markets.

© 2014.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scijus.2013.08.006
PMID: 24438775


333. Sci Justice. 2014 Jan;54(1):49-56. doi: 10.1016/j.scijus.2013.03.005. Epub 2013 
Apr 30.

The spatial and temporal distribution of pollen in a room: forensic 
implications.

Morgan RM(1), Allen E(2), King T(2), Bull PA(2).

Author information:
(1)UCL Department of Security and Crime Science, Jill Dando Institute, 35 
Tavistock Square, London, WC1H 9EZ, United Kingdom; UCL JDI Centre for the 
Forensic Sciences, 35 Tavistock Square, London, WC1H 9EZ, United Kingdom. 
Electronic address: ruth.morgan@ucl.ac.uk.
(2)Oxford University Centre for the Environment, South Parks Road, Oxford, OX1 
3QY, United Kingdom.

This paper presents two experimental studies that deal with the spatial and 
temporal distribution of pollen grains within a room of a domestic dwelling. The 
findings concur with the preliminary work of Morgan et al. [1] and provide 
greater detail as to the behaviour of pollen grains within indoor locations that 
are pertinent for forensic investigations. The spatial distribution of pollen in 
a room exhibits strong distance decay trends, with the majority of pollen 
recovered within 0.8m of its source. The pollen was found to persist in 
increasing quantities during the time the flowers were in the room. This study 
also shows that 20days after the flowers were removed, 25-32% of the original 
pollen was still present within the room. The influence of disturbance was 
investigated and whilst areas of high disturbance were found to retain less 
pollen than undisturbed locations, the influence of the proximity to source was 
a more dominant factor. These findings have significant implications for 
forensic investigation protocols, particularly the collection and interpretation 
phases of trace evidence analysis. The distribution of pollen around a room 
ensures that viable sources of trace pollen are available for transfer if 
contact is made between a location in the room and a suspect. The persistence of 
pollen many days after the flowers have been removed from a room indicates that 
many rooms in domestic dwellings will have distinctive assemblages that reflect 
the history of the flowers that have been displayed within that room in the 
past, and that these assemblages will persist and therefore be available for 
transfer. These preliminary findings indicate that investigation by forensic 
palynology in indoor domestic settings may well be an underutilised technique 
that has the potential to provide accurate and valuable intelligence and 
evidence for forensic enquiry.

Copyright © 2014 Forensic Science Society. Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scijus.2013.03.005
PMID: 24438777 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


334. Am J Prev Med. 2014 Feb;46(2):179-87. doi: 10.1016/j.amepre.2013.10.016.

Crowdsourcing applications for public health.

Brabham DC(1), Ribisl KM(2), Kirchner TR(3), Bernhardt JM(4).

Author information:
(1)Annenberg School for Communication and Journalism, University of Southern 
California, Los Angeles, California. Electronic address: brabham@usc.edu.
(2)Gillings School of Global Public Health and Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer 
Center, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, North Carolina.
(3)Steven A. Schroeder National Institute for Tobacco Research and Policy 
Studies, Washington DC; The Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, 
Baltimore, Maryland.
(4)Center for Digital Health and Wellness, University of Florida, Gainesville, 
Florida; Department of Health Education and Behavior, University of Florida, 
Gainesville, Florida.

Crowdsourcing is an online, distributed, problem-solving, and production model 
that uses the collective intelligence of networked communities for specific 
purposes. Although its use has benefited many sectors of society, it has yet to 
be fully realized as a method for improving public health. This paper defines 
the core components of crowdsourcing and proposes a framework for understanding 
the potential utility of crowdsourcing in the domain of public health. Four 
discrete crowdsourcing approaches are described (knowledge discovery and 
management; distributed human intelligence tasking; broadcast search; and 
peer-vetted creative production types) and a number of potential applications 
for crowdsourcing for public health science and practice are enumerated.

© 2013 American Journal of Preventive Medicine Published by American Journal of 
Preventive Medicine All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amepre.2013.10.016
PMID: 24439353 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


335. BMJ Open. 2014 Jan 17;4(1):e004178. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2013-004178.

Childhood socioeconomic position, young adult intelligence and fillings of 
prescribed medicine for prevention of cardiovascular disease in middle-aged men.

Kriegbaum M(1), Kildemoes HW, Rasmussen JN, Hendriksen C, Vass M, Mortensen EL, 
Osler M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.

OBJECTIVES: To explore the relationship between childhood socioeconomic position 
(SEP) and filling of medicine prescriptions for prevention of cardiovascular 
diseases (CVDs), with young adult intelligence (IQ) as a potential mediator.
DESIGN: Birth cohort study with logistic and Cox-proportional hazard regression 
analyses of associations between childhood SEP, retrieved from birth 
certificates, and prevalence, initiation of and refill persistency for CVD 
preventive medicine.
SETTING: Denmark.
PARTICIPANTS: 8736 Danish men born in 1953, who had no CVD at the start of 
follow-up in 1995, were followed in the Danish National Prescription Register 
for initiation of and refill persistency for antihypertensives and statins, 
until the end of 2007 (age 54 years).
RESULTS: Low childhood SEP at age 18 was not associated with prescription 
fillings of antihypertensives, but was weakly associated with initiation of 
statins (HR = 1.19 (95% CI 1.00 to1.42)). This estimate was attenuated when IQ 
was entered into the model (HR=1.10 (95% CI 0.91 to 1.23)). Low childhood SEP 
was also associated with decreased refill persistency for statins (HR=2.23 (95% 
CI 1.13 to 4.40)). Thus, the HR for SEP only changed slightly (HR=2.24 (95% CI 
1.11 to 4.52)) when IQ was entered into the model, but entering other covariates 
(education and body mass index in young adulthood and income in midlife) into 
the model attenuated the HR to 2.04 (95% CI 1.00 to 4.16).
CONCLUSIONS: Low childhood SEP was related to more frequent initiation of and 
poorer refill persistency for statins. IQ in young adulthood explained most of 
the association between childhood SEP and initiation of statins, but had no 
impact on refill persistency.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2013-004178
PMCID: PMC3902485
PMID: 24441056 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


336. Curr Opin Psychiatry. 2014 Mar;27(2):110-6. doi: 10.1097/YCO.0000000000000037.

Intellectual disability as a disorder of reasoning and judgement: the gradual 
move away from intelligence quotient-ceilings.

Greenspan S(1), Woods GW.

Author information:
(1)aDepartment of Educational Psychology, University of Connecticut, Mansfield, 
Connecticut bDepartment of Psychiatry, Morehouse School of Medicine, Atlanta, 
Georgia, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Adoption of the term intellectual disability (intellectual 
developmental disorder, IDD) in DSM-5 represents a shift from a disability (test 
score) emphasis to a disorder (medical/neurobiological) emphasis. Several 
implications of this shift for definition and diagnosis of intellectual 
disability (ID) are discussed.
RECENT FINDINGS: The intellectual disability (IDD) section of DSM-5 reflects a 
growing concern about excessive and inappropriate reliance on intelligence 
quotient (IQ) cut-offs. Clinicians are now encouraged to take into account 
various sources of test error; rely more on neuropsychological profiles of 
cognitive impairments; and approach the adaptive functioning of patients with a 
greater emphasis on cognitive aspects, such as risk-unawareness.
SUMMARY: A psychometric approach to intellectual disability/IDD, defining it 
solely in terms of test scores, is inappropriate for psychiatric and medical 
disorders, which use a disorder rather than a disability model. The intellectual 
disability/IDD section in DSM-5 is the first prototypical attempt to broaden the 
category, and approach it in more clinical terms, while still maintaining the 
meaning of the condition.

DOI: 10.1097/YCO.0000000000000037
PMID: 24441419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


337. Environ Health Perspect. 2014 Mar;122(3):310-6. doi: 10.1289/ehp.1206323. Epub 
2014 Jan 17.

Domain-specific effects of prenatal exposure to PCBs, mercury, and lead on 
infant cognition: results from the Environmental Contaminants and Child 
Development Study in Nunavik.

Boucher O(1), Muckle G, Jacobson JL, Carter RC, Kaplan-Estrin M, Ayotte P, 
Dewailly É, Jacobson SW.

Author information:
(1)Centre de Recherche du Centre hospitalier universitaire de Québec, Québec 
City, Québec, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), methylmercury (MeHg), and lead 
(Pb) are environmental contaminants known for their adverse effects on cognitive 
development.
OBJECTIVES: In this study we examined the effects of prenatal exposure to PCBs, 
MeHg, and Pb on cognitive development in a sample of Inuit infants from Arctic 
Québec.
METHODS: Mothers were recruited at local prenatal clinics. PCBs, mercury (Hg), 
Pb, and two seafood nutrients-docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) and selenium (Se)-were 
measured in umbilical cord blood. Infants (n = 94) were assessed at 6.5 and 11 
months of age on the Fagan Test of Infant Intelligence (FTII), A-not-B test, and 
Bayley Scales of Infant Development-2nd Edition (BSID-II).
RESULTS: Multiple regression analyses revealed that higher prenatal PCB exposure 
was associated with decreased FTII novelty preference, indicating impaired 
visual recognition memory. Prenatal Hg was associated with poorer performance on 
A-not-B, which depends on working memory and is believed to be a precursor of 
executive function. Prenatal Pb was related to longer FTII fixation durations, 
indicating slower speed of information processing.
CONCLUSIONS: PCBs, MeHg, and Pb each showed specific and distinct patterns of 
adverse associations with the outcomes measured during infancy. By contrast, 
none of these exposures was associated with performance on the BSID-II, a global 
developmental measure. The more focused, narrow band measures of cognitive 
function that appeared to be sensitive to these exposures also provide early 
indications of long-term impairment in specific domains that would otherwise not 
likely be evident until school age.
CITATION: Boucher O, Muckle G, Jacobson JL, Carter RC, Kaplan-Estrin M, Ayotte 
P, Dewailly É, Jacobson SW. 2014. Domain-specific effects of prenatal exposure 
to PCBs, mercury, and lead on infant cognition: results from the Environmental 
Contaminants and Child Development Study in Nunavik. Environ Health Perspect 
122:310-316; http://dx.doi.org/10.1289/ehp.1206323.

DOI: 10.1289/ehp.1206323
PMCID: PMC3948023
PMID: 24441767 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare they have no actual or 
potential competing financial interests.


338. Int J Med Robot. 2015 Mar;11(1):38-43. doi: 10.1002/rcs.1570. Epub 2014 Jan 20.

A novel modification of the Turing test for artificial intelligence and robotics 
in healthcare.

Ashrafian H(1), Darzi A, Athanasiou T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery and Cancer and Hamlyn Centre, Imperial College London, 
UK.

BACKGROUND: The increasing demands of delivering higher quality global 
healthcare has resulted in a corresponding expansion in the development of 
computer-based and robotic healthcare tools that rely on artificially 
intelligent technologies. The Turing test was designed to assess artificial 
intelligence (AI) in computer technology. It remains an important qualitative 
tool for testing the next generation of medical diagnostics and medical 
robotics.
METHODS: Development of quantifiable diagnostic accuracy meta-analytical 
evaluative techniques for the Turing test paradigm.
RESULTS: Modification of the Turing test to offer quantifiable diagnostic 
precision and statistical effect-size robustness in the assessment of AI for 
computer-based and robotic healthcare technologies.
CONCLUSIONS: Modification of the Turing test to offer robust diagnostic scores 
for AI can contribute to enhancing and refining the next generation of digital 
diagnostic technologies and healthcare robotics.

Copyright © 2014 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/rcs.1570
PMID: 24442995 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


339. Am J Med Genet A. 2014 Mar;164A(3):810-4. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.a.36359. Epub 2014 
Jan 17.

Absence of skeletal anomalies in siblings with a maternally inherited 
12q13.13-q13.2 microdeletion partially involving the HOXC gene cluster.

Peterson JF(1), Hartman J, Ghaloul-Gonzalez L, Surti U, Hu J.

Author information:
(1)Pittsburgh Cytogenetics Laboratory, Center for Medical Genetics and Genomics, 
Magee-Womens Hospital of UPMC, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; Department of Human 
Genetics, Graduate School of Public Health, University of Pittsburgh, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

Microdeletions (12q13.13-q13.2) involving the HOXC gene cluster are rare. Only 
three patients with this contiguous deletion have been reported, all resulting 
in phenotypic features that include skeletal anomalies, facial dysmorphism, and 
intellectual disability. The deletion of the HOXC gene cluster is thought to 
result in skeletal anomalies in these patients. We report on siblings with a 969 
kb deletion in the 12q13.13-q13.2 region detected by array comparative genomic 
hybridization (aCGH). This deletion spans seven of nine HOXC cluster genes. FISH 
analysis confirmed the siblings and mother were carriers of the 12q13.13-q13.2 
deletion. Although minor facial dysmorphic features were present in both 
siblings, no skeletal anomalies were present in the siblings or the mother. The 
proband had autistic-like features and mild developmental delay, while the 
sibling and mother are of normal intelligence. The absence of skeletal anomalies 
in our family suggests that deletion of the entire HOXC gene cluster may be 
required to result in an abnormal skeletal phenotype, or those skeletal 
anomalies in previously reported patients may be attributed to other genes 
within the deletion interval.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.a.36359
PMID: 24443387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


340. Clin Toxicol (Phila). 2014 Feb;52(2):113-7. doi: 10.3109/15563650.2013.876544. 
Epub 2014 Jan 21.

Low blood lead level effects on intelligence: can a dose-response curve be 
determined from the epidemiological data?

Banner W(1), Kahn CM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy Practice, College of Pharmacy, University of Oklahoma 
, Oklahoma City, OK , USA.

Comment in
    Clin Toxicol (Phila). 2014 Feb;52(2):88-90.

CONTEXT. Recent publications have graphically demonstrated a curvilinear 
relationship between measures of intelligence and blood lead levels at low 
concentrations (< 10 mcg/dl). This led to speculation that a greater biologic 
effect occurs at lower concentrations. Critics of this conclusion hypothesized 
that this graphical relationship may be a function of the underlying 
distributions of these variables. OBJECTIVE. To study the impact of the 
distribution of data on the shape of apparent dose-response curves. METHODS. 
Random data based on varied distributions were constructed to simulate a 
previous study using a single, randomly generated covariate income (Inc) to 
demonstrate the impact of normally versus exponentially distributed data on the 
shape of the graph of intelligence quotient (IQ) versus blood lead. We also used 
an existing database of US blood lead levels and constructed a similar model of 
income and IQ using both assumptions of distribution for the intermediate 
variable income. RESULTS. When both lead and income are exponentially 
distributed, the graph of lead and IQ will be a curve. CONCLUSION. The apparent 
shape of a dose-response relationship from simulated epidemiological data is 
nonlinear when one variable and a covariate are exponentially distributed. A 
non-linear biological relationship should not be assumed and in fact may be the 
least likely explanation. The use of observational epidemiological data to 
discern a dose-response relationship between two variables may be misleading.

DOI: 10.3109/15563650.2013.876544
PMID: 24443996 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


341. Psicothema. 2014;26(1):1-9. doi: 10.7334/psicothema2012.210.

A systematic review of the complex organization of human cognitive domains and 
their heritability.

Goldberg Hermo X(1), Lemos Giráldez S, Fañanás Saura L.

Author information:
(1)Universitat de Barcelona, Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Salud 
Mental (CIBERSAM).

BACKGROUND: Models of cognition propose a hierarchical structure for human 
cognitive processes, in which the sequences of human action are organized into 
parts or subunits of analysis that can be grouped into progressively more 
complex, inclusive higher-order functions. This organizational structure from 
partial to whole may be reflected in the neural representations that underlie 
human behaviour, and in its genetic underpinnings. The objective of the present 
study was to explore a putative hierarchical organization of the genetic 
influences underlying cognitive domains.
METHOD: Thirty four studies of the heritability of cognition on population-based 
samples were reviewed, which included measures of intelligence, verbal and 
performance abilities, memory, working memory and processing speed.
RESULTS: Specific cognitive domains showed diverse proportions of genetic 
underpinnings such that higher-order cognitive functions present high 
heritability estimates, whereas lower-order functions respond to small/moderate 
heritability estimates.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on current understanding of the developmental processes of 
the neurobiological substrates of human cognition, the genetic contributions to 
cognitive abilities seem to be organized in line with the ontogenic maturation 
of the brain. We discuss the large genetic control of the combinatory capacity 
of basic cognitive functions, and its interaction with environmental influences.

DOI: 10.7334/psicothema2012.210
PMID: 24444722 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


342. Sensors (Basel). 2014 Jan 17;14(1):1598-628. doi: 10.3390/s140101598.

Ontology-driven monitoring of patient's vital signs enabling personalized 
medical detection and alert.

Hristoskova A(1), Sakkalis V(2), Zacharioudakis G(3), Tsiknakis M(4), De Turck 
F(5).

Author information:
(1)Internet Based Communication Networks and Services, Department of Information 
Technology-iMinds, Ghent University, Gaston Crommenlaan 8 Box 201, Ghent 9050, 
Belgium. anna.hristoskova@intec.ugent.be.
(2)Internet Based Communication Networks and Services, Department of Information 
Technology-iMinds, Ghent University, Gaston Crommenlaan 8 Box 201, Ghent 9050, 
Belgium. sakkalis@ics.forth.gr.
(3)Internet Based Communication Networks and Services, Department of Information 
Technology-iMinds, Ghent University, Gaston Crommenlaan 8 Box 201, Ghent 9050, 
Belgium. gzaxar@ics.forth.gr.
(4)Internet Based Communication Networks and Services, Department of Information 
Technology-iMinds, Ghent University, Gaston Crommenlaan 8 Box 201, Ghent 9050, 
Belgium. tsiknaki@ics.forth.gr.
(5)Internet Based Communication Networks and Services, Department of Information 
Technology-iMinds, Ghent University, Gaston Crommenlaan 8 Box 201, Ghent 9050, 
Belgium. filip.deturck@intec.ugent.be.

A major challenge related to caring for patients with chronic conditions is the 
early detection of exacerbations of the disease. Medical personnel should be 
contacted immediately in order to intervene in time before an acute state is 
reached, ensuring patient safety. This paper proposes an approach to an ambient 
intelligence (AmI) framework supporting real-time remote monitoring of patients 
diagnosed with congestive heart failure (CHF). Its novelty is the integration 
of: (i) personalized monitoring of the patients health status and risk stage; 
(ii) intelligent alerting of the dedicated physician through the construction of 
medical workflows on-the-fly; and (iii) dynamic adaptation of the vital signs' 
monitoring environment on any available device or smart phone located in close 
proximity to the physician depending on new medical measurements, additional 
disease specifications or the failure of the infrastructure. The intelligence 
lies in the adoption of semantics providing for a personalized and automated 
emergency alerting that smoothly interacts with the physician, regardless of his 
location, ensuring timely intervention during an emergency. It is evaluated on a 
medical emergency scenario, where in the case of exceeded patient thresholds, 
medical personnel are localized and contacted, presenting ad hoc information on 
the patient's condition on the most suited device within the physician's reach.

DOI: 10.3390/s140101598
PMCID: PMC3926628
PMID: 24445411 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


343. Sensors (Basel). 2014 Jan 17;14(1):1629-53. doi: 10.3390/s140101629.

A smart kitchen for ambient assisted living.

Blasco R(1), Marco Á(2), Casas R(3), Cirujano D(4), Picking R(5).

Author information:
(1)Instituto Universitario de Investigación en Ingeniería de Aragón, Universidad 
de Zaragoza, C\Mariano Esquillor s/n, Zaragoza 50018, Spain. rblasco@unizar.es.
(2)Instituto Universitario de Investigación en Ingeniería de Aragón, Universidad 
de Zaragoza, C\Mariano Esquillor s/n, Zaragoza 50018, Spain. amarco@unizar.es.
(3)Instituto Universitario de Investigación en Ingeniería de Aragón, Universidad 
de Zaragoza, C\Mariano Esquillor s/n, Zaragoza 50018, Spain. rcasas@unizar.es.
(4)Instituto Universitario de Investigación en Ingeniería de Aragón, Universidad 
de Zaragoza, C\Mariano Esquillor s/n, Zaragoza 50018, Spain. 
dcirujano@humanopenware.com.
(5)Instituto Universitario de Investigación en Ingeniería de Aragón, Universidad 
de Zaragoza, C\Mariano Esquillor s/n, Zaragoza 50018, Spain. 
r.picking@glyndwr.ac.uk.

The kitchen environment is one of the scenarios in the home where users can 
benefit from Ambient Assisted Living (AAL) applications. Moreover, it is the 
place where old people suffer from most domestic injuries. This paper presents a 
novel design, implementation and assessment of a Smart Kitchen which provides 
Ambient Assisted Living services; a smart environment that increases elderly and 
disabled people's autonomy in their kitchen-related activities through context 
and user awareness, appropriate user interaction and artificial intelligence. It 
is based on a modular architecture which integrates a wide variety of home 
technology (household appliances, sensors, user interfaces, etc.) and associated 
communication standards and media (power line, radio frequency, infrared and 
cabled). Its software architecture is based on the Open Services Gateway 
initiative (OSGi), which allows building a complex system composed of small 
modules, each one providing the specific functionalities required, and can be 
easily scaled to meet our needs. The system has been evaluated by a large number 
of real users (63) and carers (31) in two living labs in Spain and UK. Results 
show a large potential of system functionalities combined with good usability 
and physical, sensory and cognitive accessibility.

DOI: 10.3390/s140101629
PMCID: PMC3926629
PMID: 24445412 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


344. Cancer J. 2014 Jan-Feb;20(1):8-14. doi: 10.1097/PPO.0000000000000018.

A randomized, double-blind, 2-period, placebo-controlled crossover trial of a 
sustained-release methylphenidate in the treatment of fatigue in cancer 
patients.

Escalante CP(1), Meyers C, Reuben JM, Wang X, Qiao W, Manzullo E, Alvarez RH, 
Morrow PK, Gonzalez-Angulo AM, Wang XS, Mendoza T, Liu W, Holmes H, Hwang J, 
Pisters K, Overman M, Cleeland C.

Author information:
(1)From the *The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX; and 
†Hematology/Oncology Therapeutic Area, Amgen, Thousand Oaks, CA.

Comment in
    Cancer J. 2014 Jan-Feb;20(1):15-7.

PURPOSE: This study assessed the efficacy of methylphenidate versus placebo for 
cancer-related fatigue reduction. Other objectives were to analyze cytokine 
levels and to determine the effects of methylphenidate on other symptoms, 
cognitive function, work yield, and patients' perceptions and preferences.
METHODS: Patients were randomly assigned (1:1) to receive 
methylphenidate-placebo or placebo-methylphenidate for 4 weeks. Patients crossed 
over after 2 weeks. Wilcoxon signed rank tests and McNemar tests were used to 
assess continuous and categorical variables. The primary efficacy endpoint was 
change in the level of worst fatigue on the Brief Fatigue Inventory (BFI) at the 
end of each 2-week period.
RESULTS: The mean baseline BFI score was moderate (5.7). Methylphenidate 
treatment did not affect patients' worst level of fatigue or other symptoms. 
Results from the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale Digit Symbol Test and the 
Hopkins Verbal Learning Test with BFI interference questions and BFI activity 
questions showed significant improvement in the methylphenidate-treated 
patients' verbal learning, memory, visual perception, analysis, and scanning 
speed. Patients treated with methylphenidate missed significantly fewer work 
hours owing to health reasons and worked significantly more hours. After 4 
weeks, 64% of patients reported that methylphenidate improved their 
cancer-related fatigue, and 58% wanted to continue treatment. Significant 
difference in interleukin 6R (positive), interleukin 10 (negative), and tumor 
necrosis factor α (positive) was noted between the methylphenidate and the 
placebo group.
CONCLUSIONS: Low-dose methylphenidate did not improve cancer-related fatigue. 
Patients taking methylphenidate had better cognition and were able to work more 
hours. Patients tolerated methylphenidate well, and the majority felt better and 
wanted to continue treatment.

DOI: 10.1097/PPO.0000000000000018
PMCID: PMC4510946
PMID: 24445757 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


345. Psychiatry Clin Neurosci. 2014 Jul;68(7):534-41. doi: 10.1111/pcn.12165. Epub 
2014 Mar 17.

Performance on the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-III in Japanese patients 
with schizophrenia.

Fujino H(1), Sumiyoshi C, Sumiyoshi T, Yasuda Y, Yamamori H, Ohi K, Fujimoto M, 
Umeda-Yano S, Higuchi A, Hibi Y, Matsuura Y, Hashimoto R, Takeda M, Imura O.

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Human Sciences, Osaka, Japan.

AIM: Patients with schizophrenia have been reported to perform worse than 
non-schizophrenic populations on neuropsychological tests, which may be affected 
by cultural factors. The aim of this study was to examine the performance of a 
sizable number of patients with schizophrenia on the Japanese version of the 
Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-III (WAIS-III) compared with healthy controls.
METHODS: Performance on the WAIS-III was evaluated in 157 Japanese patients with 
schizophrenia and in 264 healthy control subjects.
RESULTS: All IQ scores and four indices from the WAIS-III were impaired for 
patients with schizophrenia compared with healthy controls. Processing Speed was 
markedly disturbed, approximately 2 SD below that of the healthy control group. 
Among the 13 subtests, Comprehension (z = -1.70, d = 1.55), Digit Symbol Coding 
(z = -1.84, d = 1.88), and Symbol Search (z = -1.85, d = 1.77) were profoundly 
impaired relative to the healthy controls.
CONCLUSION: These results indicate that the pattern and degree of impairment, as 
evaluated by the WAIS-III, in Japanese patients are similar to those previously 
reported in English-speaking patients and that the deficits of some 
neuropsychological domains relevant to functional outcomes are universally 
characteristic of schizophrenia.

© 2014 The Authors. Psychiatry and Clinical Neurosciences © 2014 Japanese 
Society of Psychiatry and Neurology.

DOI: 10.1111/pcn.12165
PMID: 24447376 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


346. Forensic Sci Int. 2014 Feb;235:68-77. doi: 10.1016/j.forsciint.2013.11.016. Epub 
2013 Dec 16.

Chemical analysis of pharmaceuticals and explosives in fingermarks using 
matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization/time-of-flight mass spectrometry.

Kaplan-Sandquist K(1), LeBeau MA(2), Miller ML(3).

Author information:
(1)Counterterrorism and Forensic Science Research Unit, Visiting Scientist 
Program, Federal Bureau of Investigation Laboratory Division, Quantico, VA, 
United States.
(2)Scientific Analysis Section, Federal Bureau of Investigation Laboratory 
Division, Quantico, VA, United States.
(3)Counterterrorism and Forensic Science Research Unit, Federal Bureau of 
Investigation Laboratory Division, Quantico, VA, United States. Electronic 
address: Mark.L.Miller@ic.fbi.gov.

Chemical analysis of latent fingermarks, "touch chemistry," has the potential of 
providing intelligence or forensically relevant information. Matrix-assisted 
laser desorption ionization/time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI/TOF MS) was 
used as an analytical platform for obtaining mass spectra and chemical images of 
target drugs and explosives in fingermark residues following conventional 
fingerprint development methods and MALDI matrix processing. There were two main 
purposes of this research: (1) develop effective laboratory methods for 
detecting drugs and explosives in fingermark residues and (2) determine the 
feasibility of detecting drugs and explosives after casual contact with pills, 
powders, and residues. Further, synthetic latent print reference pads were 
evaluated as mimics of natural fingermark residue to determine if the pads could 
be used for method development and quality control. The results suggest that 
artificial amino acid and sebaceous oil residue pads are not suitable to 
adequately simulate natural fingermark chemistry for MALDI/TOF MS analysis. 
However, the pads were useful for designing experiments and setting instrumental 
parameters. Based on the natural fingermark residue experiments, handling whole 
or broken pills did not transfer sufficient quantities of drugs to allow for 
definitive detection. Transferring drugs or explosives in the form of powders 
and residues was successful for preparing analytes for detection after contact 
with fingers and deposition of fingermark residue. One downfall to handling 
powders was that the analyte particles were easily spread beyond the original 
fingermark during development. Analyte particles were confined in the original 
fingermark when using transfer residues. The MALDI/TOF MS was able to detect 
procaine, pseudoephedrine, TNT, and RDX from contact residue under laboratory 
conditions with the integration of conventional fingerprint development methods 
and MALDI matrix. MALDI/TOF MS is a nondestructive technique which provides 
chemical information in both the mass spectra and chemical images.

Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.forsciint.2013.11.016
PMID: 24447453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


347. Acad Med. 2014 Mar;89(3):376-9. doi: 10.1097/ACM.0000000000000146.

A new leadership curriculum: the multiplication of intelligence.

Wiseman L(1), Bradwejn J, Westbroek EM.

Author information:
(1)Ms. Wiseman is president, The Wiseman Group, Menlo Park, California. Dr. 
Bradwejn is dean and professor of psychiatry, Faculty of Medicine, University of 
Ottawa, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada. Mr. Westbroek is a fifth-year medical student, 
Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, California.

Comment in
    Acad Med. 2014 Nov;89(11):1431.
    Acad Med. 2014 Nov;89(11):1431.

The authors propose a new model of leadership for the clinical setting. The 
authors' research suggests that there is latent intelligence inside business and 
educational organizations because many leaders operate in a way that shuts down 
the intelligence of others. Such leaders are classified as "Diminishers." In the 
clinical setting this behavior creates a hidden curriculum in medical education, 
passing on unprofessional patterns of behavior to future physicians. Other 
leaders, however, amplify intelligence, produce better outcomes, and grow 
talent. These leaders are classified as "Multipliers." The authors suggest that 
Multiplier leadership should become the standard leadership practice in medical 
schools. Case studies of a Multiplier and a Diminisher are presented and 
illustrate the positive effect these leaders can have on medical education and 
health organizations.

DOI: 10.1097/ACM.0000000000000146
PMID: 24448054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


348. J Atten Disord. 2016 Nov;20(11):913-924. doi: 10.1177/1087054713518241. Epub 
2014 Jan 21.

Neuropsychological Profiles on the WAIS-IV of Adults With ADHD.

Theiling J(1), Petermann F(2).

Author information:
(1)University of Bremen, Germany theiling@uni-bremen.de.
(2)University of Bremen, Germany.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of the study was to investigate the pattern of 
neuropsychological profiles on the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-IV 
(WAIS-IV) for adults With ADHD relative to randomly matched controls and to 
assess overall intellectual ability discrepancies of the Full Scale Intelligence 
Quotient (FSIQ) and the General Ability Index (GAI).
METHOD: In all, 116 adults With ADHD and 116 controls between 16 and 71 years 
were assessed.
RESULTS: Relative to controls, adults With ADHD show significant decrements in 
subtests with working memory and processing speed demands with moderate to large 
effect sizes and a higher GAI in comparison with the FSIQ.
CONCLUSION: This suggests first that deficits identified with previous WAIS 
versions are robust in adults With ADHD and remain deficient when assessed with 
the WAIS-IV; second that the WAIS-IV reliably differentiates between patients 
and controls; and third that a reduction of the FSIQ is most likely due to a 
decrement in working memory and processing speed abilities. The findings have 
essential implications for the diagnostic process.

© The Author(s) 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/1087054713518241
PMID: 24448224 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


349. Endocr Pract. 2014 Jun;20(6):597-607. doi: 10.4158/EP13350.RA.

Clinical aspects of hyperthyroidism, hypothyroidism, and thyroid screening in 
pregnancy.

Negro R(1), Stagnaro-Green A(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Endocrinology, "V. Fazzi" Hospital, Lecce, Italy.
(2)Rockford Regional Dean, College of Medicine, University of Illinois, 
Rockford, Illinois.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the peer-reviewed literature on hypothyroidism, 
hyperthyroidism, and thyroid autoimmunity in pregnancy.
METHODS: We review published studies on thyroid autoimmunity and dysfunction in 
pregnancy, the impact of thyroid disease on pregnancy, and discuss implications 
for screening.
RESULTS: Overt hyperthyroidism and hypothyroidism are responsible for adverse 
obstetric and neonatal events. Several studies of association suggest that 
either subclinical hypothyroidism or thyroid autoimmunity increase the risk of 
complications. One randomized controlled trial showed that pregnant women with 
subclinical hypothyroidism benefit from treatment in terms of obstetric and 
neonatal complications, whereas another study demonstrated no benefit in the 
intelligence quotient of babies born to women with subclinical hypothyroidism. 
Thyroid autoimmunity has been associated with increased rate of pregnancy loss, 
recurrent miscarriage, and preterm delivery.
CONCLUSION: Current guidelines agree that overt hyperthyroidism and 
hypothyroidism need to be promptly treated and that as potential benefits 
outweigh potential harm, subclinical hypothyroidism also requires substitutive 
treatment. The chance that women with thyroid autoimmunity may benefit from 
levothyroxine treatment to improve obstetric outcome is intriguing, but 
adequately powered randomized controlled trials are needed. The issue of 
universal thyroid screening at the beginning of pregnancy is still a matter of 
debate, and aggressive case-finding is supported.

DOI: 10.4158/EP13350.RA
PMID: 24449669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


350. Am J Intellect Dev Disabil. 2014 Jan;119(1):17-32. doi: 
10.1352/1944-7558-119.1.17.

Effects of dose frequency of early communication intervention in young children 
with and without Down syndrome.

Yoder P, Woynaroski T, Fey M, Warren S.

Children with intellectual disability were randomly assigned to receive Milieu 
Communication Teaching (MCT) at one 1-hr session per week (low dose frequency, 
LDF) or five 1-hr sessions per week (high dose frequency, HDF) over 9 months ( 
Fey, Yoder, Warren, & Bredin-Oja, 2013 . Non-Down syndrome (NDS) and Down 
syndrome (DS) subgroups were matched on intelligence, mental age, and 
chronological age. The NDS group had significantly more growth in spoken 
vocabulary than the DS group. In the DS subgroup, the HDF group had more spoken 
vocabulary growth than the LDF group when IQ was controlled. In both etiological 
subgroups, the HDF group yielded greater vocabulary production outcomes than the 
LDF group for children who played functionally with a range of objects.

DOI: 10.1352/1944-7558-119.1.17
PMCID: PMC4059517
PMID: 24450319 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


351. AIDS Res Ther. 2014 Jan 22;11(1):7. doi: 10.1186/1742-6405-11-7.

Association between lymphocyte and monocyte subsets and cognition in children 
with HIV.

Ananworanich J(1), Bunupuradah T, Apornpong T, Kosalaraksa P, Hansudewechakul R, 
Kanjanavanit S, Ngampiyaskul C, Wongsawat J, Luesomboon W, Ngo-Giang-Huong N, 
Jaimulwong T, Kerr SJ, Brouwers P, Shearer WT, Puthanakit T; PREDICT Study 
Group.

Author information:
(1)HIV-NAT, The Thai Red Cross AIDS Research Centre, 104 Rajdumri Road, 
Pathumwan, Bangkok 10330, Thailand. jintanat.a@hivnat.org.

BACKGROUND: This study assesses the relationships between lymphocyte and 
monocyte subsets and intelligence quotient (IQ) scores in antiretroviral therapy 
(ART)-naive, HIV-infected Thai children without advanced HIV disease.
FINDINGS: Sixty-seven ART-naive Thai children with CD4 between 15-24% underwent 
cognitive testing by Weschler intelligence scale and had 13 cell subsets 
performed by flow cytometry including naive, memory and activated subsets of 
CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, activated and perivascular monocytes and B cells. 
Regression modelling with log10 cell count and cell percentage transformation 
was performed.Median age (IQR) was 9 (7-10) years, 33% were male, CDC stages 
N:A:B were 1:67:31%, median CD4% and count (IQR) were 21 (18-24)%, 597 (424-801) 
cells/mm3 and HIV RNA (IQR) was 4.6 (4.1-4.9) log10 copies/ml. Most (82%) lived 
at home, 45% had a biological parent as their primary caregiver, and 26 (49%) 
had low family income. The mean (SD) scores were 75 (13) for full scale IQ 
(FIQ), 73 (12) for verbal IQ (VIQ) and 80 (14) for performance IQ (PIQ). 
Adjusted multivariate regression analysis showed significant negative 
associations between B cell counts and FIQ, VIQ and PIQ (p < 0.01 for all); 
similar associations were found for B cell percentages (p < 0.05 for all).
CONCLUSIONS: High B cell counts and percentages were strongly associated with 
poorer FIQ, VIQ and PIQ scores. Prospective, long-term assessment of cell 
subsets and determination of relevant B cell subpopulations could help further 
elucidate associations between lymphocyte subsets and neurocognitive 
development.

DOI: 10.1186/1742-6405-11-7
PMCID: PMC3900937
PMID: 24450991


352. Psychol Med. 2014 Sep;44(12):2661-71. doi: 10.1017/S0033291714000038. Epub 2014 
Jan 22.

Neural correlates of inhibitory control and visual processing in youths with 
attention deficit hyperactivity disorder: a counting Stroop functional MRI 
study.

Fan LY(1), Gau SS(1), Chou TL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology,National Taiwan University,Taipei,Taiwan.

BACKGROUND: Despite evidence of inhibitory control and visual processing 
impairment in attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), knowledge about 
its corresponding alterations in the brain is still evolving. The current study 
used counting Stroop functional MRI and the Cambridge Neuropsychological Test 
Automated Battery (CANTAB) to investigate if brain activation of inhibitory 
control and visual processing would differ in youths with ADHD relative to 
neurotypical youths.
METHOD: We assessed 25 youths with ADHD [mean age 10.9 (s.d.=2.2) years] and 23 
age-, gender- and IQ-matched neurotypical youths [mean age 11.2 (s.d.=2.9) 
years]. The participants were assessed by using the Wechsler Intelligence Scale 
for Children, third edition, and two tests from the CANTAB: rapid visual 
information processing (RVP) and pattern recognition memory (PRM) outside the 
scanner.
RESULTS: Youths with ADHD showed more activation than neurotypical youths in the 
right inferior frontal gyrus [Brodmann area (BA) 45] and anterior cingulate 
cortex, which were correlated with poorer performance on the RVP test in the 
CANTAB. In contrast, youths with ADHD showed less activation than neurotypical 
youths in the left superior parietal lobule (BA 5/7), which was correlated with 
the percentage of correct responses on the PRM test in the CANTAB.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that youths with ADHD might need more 
inhibitory control to suppress interference between number and meaning and may 
involve less visual processing to process the numbers in the counting Stroop 
task than neurotypical youths.

DOI: 10.1017/S0033291714000038
PMID: 24451066 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


353. Int J Epidemiol. 2014 Jun;43(3):835-42. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyt274. Epub 2014 Jan 
22.

Association of height and violent criminality: results from a Swedish total 
population study.

Beckley AL(1), Kuja-Halkola R(2), Lundholm L(2), Långström N(2), Frisell T(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Criminology, Stockholm University, Stockholm, Sweden, 
Department of Medical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Karolinska Institutet, 
Stockholm, Sweden, Swedish Prison and Probation Services, Research and 
Development Unit and Clinical Epidemiology Unit, Department of Medicine, 
Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden amber.beckley@criminology.su.se.
(2)Department of Criminology, Stockholm University, Stockholm, Sweden, 
Department of Medical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Karolinska Institutet, 
Stockholm, Sweden, Swedish Prison and Probation Services, Research and 
Development Unit and Clinical Epidemiology Unit, Department of Medicine, 
Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, SwedenDepartment of Criminology, Stockholm 
University, Stockholm, Sweden, Department of Medical Epidemiology and 
Biostatistics, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden, Swedish Prison and 
Probation Services, Research and Development Unit and Clinical Epidemiology 
Unit, Department of Medicine, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
(3)Department of Criminology, Stockholm University, Stockholm, Sweden, 
Department of Medical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Karolinska Institutet, 
Stockholm, Sweden, Swedish Prison and Probation Services, Research and 
Development Unit and Clinical Epidemiology Unit, Department of Medicine, 
Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.

Comment in
    Int J Epidemiol. 2014 Jun;43(3):639-44.

BACKGROUND: Violent criminality is at least moderately heritable, but the 
mechanisms behind this remain largely unexplained. Height, a highly heritable 
trait, may be involved but no study has estimated the effect of height on crime 
while simultaneously accounting for important demographic, biological and other 
heritable confounders.
METHODS: We linked nationwide, longitudinal registers for 760 000 men who 
underwent mandatory military conscription from 1980 through 1992 in Sweden, to 
assess the association between height and being convicted of a violent crime. We 
used Cox proportional hazard modelling and controlled for three types of 
potential confounders: physical characteristics, childhood demographics and 
general cognitive ability (intelligence).
RESULTS: In unadjusted analyses, height had a moderate negative relationship to 
violent crime; the shortest of men were twice as likely to be convicted of a 
violent crime as the tallest. However, when simultaneously controlling for all 
measured confounders, height was weakly and positively related to violent crime. 
Intelligence had the individually strongest mitigating effect on the 
height-crime relationship.
CONCLUSIONS: Although shorter stature was associated with increased risk of 
violent offending, our analyses strongly suggested that this relationship was 
explained by intelligence and other confounding factors. Hence, it is unlikely 
that height, a highly heritable physical characteristic, accounts for much of 
the unexplained heritability of violent criminality.

© The Author 2014; all rights reserved. Published by Oxford University Press on 
behalf of the International Epidemiological Association.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyt274
PMID: 24453240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


354. Zhongguo Dang Dai Er Ke Za Zhi. 2014 Jan;16(1):11-5.

[Efficacy and safety of a phenylalanine-free amino acid-based enteral formula 
(AA-PKU2) in 1-8 year-old children with phenylketonuria: a prospective, open, 
self-controlled and multi-center study in China].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhou XL(1), Zhao ZY, Jiang JH, Zou H, Gu XF, Gu Q, Shen M, Lu J.

Author information:
(1)Children's Hospital Affiliated to Medical College, Zhejiang University, 
Hangzhou 310003, China. zhaozy@zju.edu.cn.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the efficacy and safety of a phenylalanine-free amino 
acid-based enteral formula (AA-PKU2) in the treatment of children with 
phenylketonuria (PKU) aged 1-8 years.
METHODS: A prospective, open, self-controlled, multi-center trial was performed, 
enrolling 121 PKU children (1-8 years in age) consecutively between July, 2009 
and May, 2011. Enteral nutrition therapy was administered for 32 weeks. The data 
on blood phenylalanine (PHE) levels, metal development, weight, height, head 
circumference, serum nutritional biomarkers (total protein, pre-albumin, 
albumin, total cholesterol, total triglyceride, low-density lipoprotein 
cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol), and measurements from 
routine blood and urine examinations and from renal and hepatic function tests 
were collected before the therapy and at 8 weeks and 32 weeks after the therapy 
and were comparatively analyzed.
RESULTS: The mean blood PHE level at 8 and 32 weeks of AA-PKU2 treatment was 
353±253 and 361±280 µmol/L respectively, significantly lower than that before 
the treatment (487±327 µmol/L; P<0.01). The difference in intelligence quotient 
scores before and after AA-PKU2 treatment was not significant (P>0.05) when 
assessed by the Gesell tests in children aged 1-4 years but significant (P<0.01) 
when assessed by WPPSI or WISR-R tests in children over 4 years. The average 
height, weight and head circumference at 8 and 32 weeks after treatment were 
significantly increased as compared to these measurements before treatment 
(P<0.01) with absolute levels similar to those in the control children. In 
contrast, the mean values of total protein, pre-albumin, albumin, total 
cholesterol, total triglyceride, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol and 
high-density lipoprotein cholesterol at both time points were not different 
either from those prior to the treatment or from those in the control children. 
Mild diarrhea was the adverse events associated with AA-PKU2 treatment, which 
occurred in 3 (2.5%) cases. All these 3 patients fully recovered without 
treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: The phenylalanine-free amino acid-based formula, AA-PKU2, is 
effective and safe in controlling blood PHE levels and improving mental 
development with adequate nutritional support in PKU.

PMID: 24461170 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


355. Cognition. 2014 Apr;131(1):108-24. doi: 10.1016/j.cognition.2013.12.013. Epub 
2014 Jan 22.

Cruel nature: Harmfulness as an important, overlooked dimension in judgments of 
moral standing.

Piazza J(1), Landy JF(2), Goodwin GP(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Pennsylvania, USA. Electronic 
address: jpiazza@psych.upenn.edu.
(2)Department of Psychology, University of Pennsylvania, USA.

Entities that possess moral standing can be wronged and deserve our moral 
consideration. Past perspectives on the folk psychology of moral standing have 
focused exclusively on the role of "patiency" (the capacity to experience pain 
or pleasure) and "agency" (usually defined and operationalized in terms of 
intelligence or cognitive ability). We contend that harmfulness (i.e., having a 
harmful vs. benevolent disposition) is an equally if not more important 
determinant of moral standing. We provide support for this hypothesis across 
four studies using non-human animals as targets. We show that the effect of 
harmfulness on attributions of moral standing is independent from patiency and 
intelligence (Studies 1-2), that this effect pertains specifically to an 
animal's harmful disposition rather than its capacity to act upon this 
disposition (Study 3), and that it primarily reflects a parochial concern for 
human welfare in particular (Study 4). Our findings highlight an important, 
overlooked dimension in the psychology of moral standing that has implications 
for real-world decisions that affect non-human animals. Our findings also help 
clarify the conditions under which people perceive patiency and agency as 
related versus truly independent dimensions.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cognition.2013.12.013
PMID: 24462925 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


356. Psychol Sci. 2014 Apr;25(4):928-33. doi: 10.1177/0956797613518079. Epub 2014 Jan 
24.

Far-out thinking: generating solutions to distant analogies promotes relational 
thinking.

Vendetti MS(1), Wu A, Holyoak KJ.

Author information:
(1)1Helen Wills Neuroscience Institute, University of California, Berkeley.

Is it possible to induce a mind-set that will affect relational thinking in a 
subsequent reasoning task involving unrelated materials? We investigated whether 
evaluating the validity of verbal analogies (Experiment 1a) or generating 
solutions for them (Experiment 1b) could induce a relational mind-set that would 
transfer to an unrelated picture-mapping task. The verbal analogies were based 
on either near or far semantic relations. We found that generating (but not 
evaluating) solutions for semantically distant analogies increased the 
proportion of relational mappings on the transfer task, even after we controlled 
for fluid intelligence and response time. Solving near analogies did not produce 
transfer. Generation of solutions to far analogies appears to provide a potent 
method for triggering a mind-set that can enhance relational thinking in a 
different task.

DOI: 10.1177/0956797613518079
PMID: 24463552 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


357. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 2014 Jul;231(14):2759-69. doi: 
10.1007/s00213-014-3444-2. Epub 2014 Jan 25.

Serotoninergic effects on judgments and social learning of trustworthiness.

Simonsen A(1), Scheel-Krüger J, Jensen M, Roepstorff A, Møller A, Frith CD, 
Campbell-Meiklejohn D.

Author information:
(1)Center of Functionally Integrative Neuroscience, Aarhus University, 8000, 
Aarhus, Denmark.

RATIONALE: Certain disorders, such as depression and anxiety, to which serotonin 
dysfunction is historically associated, are also associated with lower 
assessments of other people's trustworthiness. Serotonergic changes are known to 
alter cognitive responses to threatening stimuli. This effect may manifest 
socially as reduced apparent trustworthiness of others. Trustworthiness 
judgments can emerge from either direct observation or references provided by 
third parties.
OBJECTIVE: We assessed whether explicit judgments of trustworthiness and social 
influences on those judgments are altered by changes within serotonergic 
systems.
METHODS: We implemented a double-blind between-subject design where 20 healthy 
female volunteers received a single dose of the selective serotonin reuptake 
inhibitor (SSRI) citalopram (2 × 20 mg), while 20 control subjects (matched on 
age, intelligence, and years of education) received a placebo. Subjects 
performed a face-rating task assessing how trustworthy they found 153 unfamiliar 
others (targets). After each rating, the subjects were told how other subjects, 
on average, rated the same target. The subjects then performed 30 min of 
distractor tasks before, unexpectedly, being asked to rate all 153 faces again, 
in a random order.
RESULTS: Compared to subjects receiving a placebo, subjects receiving citalopram 
rated targets as less trustworthy. They also conformed more to opinions of 
others, when others rated targets to be even less trustworthy than subjects had 
initially indicated. The two effects were independent of negative effects of 
citalopram on subjective state.
CONCLUSIONS: This is evidence that serotonin systems can mediate explicit 
assessment and social learning of the trustworthiness of others.

DOI: 10.1007/s00213-014-3444-2
PMID: 24464530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


358. J Am Med Inform Assoc. 2014 Oct;21(e2):e185-93. doi: 
10.1136/amiajnl-2013-002227. Epub 2014 Jan 24.

Auditing the multiply-related concepts within the UMLS.

Mougin F(1), Grabar N(2).

Author information:
(1)ISPED, Université de Bordeaux 2, Bordeaux, France ERIAS, INSERM, Centre 
INSERM U897, Bordeaux, France.
(2)CNRS UMR 8163 STL, Université Lille 1 and 3, Villeneuve d'Ascq, France.

OBJECTIVE: This work focuses on multiply-related Unified Medical Language System 
(UMLS) concepts, that is, concepts associated through multiple relations. The 
relations involved in such situations are audited to determine whether they are 
provided by source vocabularies or result from the integration of these 
vocabularies within the UMLS.
METHODS: We study the compatibility of the multiple relations which associate 
the concepts under investigation and try to explain the reason why they 
co-occur. Towards this end, we analyze the relations both at the concept and 
term levels. In addition, we randomly select 288 concepts associated through 
contradictory relations and manually analyze them.
RESULTS: At the UMLS scale, only 0.7% of combinations of relations are 
contradictory, while homogeneous combinations are observed in one-third of 
situations. At the scale of source vocabularies, one-third do not contain more 
than one relation between the concepts under investigation. Among the remaining 
source vocabularies, seven of them mainly present multiple non-homogeneous 
relations between terms. Analysis at the term level also shows that only in a 
quarter of cases are the source vocabularies responsible for the presence of 
multiply-related concepts in the UMLS. These results are available at: 
http://www.isped.u-bordeaux2.fr/ArticleJAMIA/results_multiply_related_concepts.aspx.
DISCUSSION: Manual analysis was useful to explain the conceptualization 
difference in relations between terms across source vocabularies. The 
exploitation of source relations was helpful for understanding why some source 
vocabularies describe multiple relations between a given pair of terms.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not 
already granted under a licence) please go to 
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

DOI: 10.1136/amiajnl-2013-002227
PMCID: PMC4173167
PMID: 24464853 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


359. Pediatr Blood Cancer. 2014 Jun;61(6):1074-9. doi: 10.1002/pbc.24947. Epub 2014 
Jan 25.

Prognostic factors that increase the risk for reduced white matter volumes and 
deficits in attention and learning for survivors of childhood cancers.

Reddick WE(1), Taghipour DJ, Glass JO, Ashford J, Xiong X, Wu S, Bonner M, Khan 
RB, Conklin HM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiological Sciences, St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, 
Memphis, Tennessee.

Comment in
    Pediatr Blood Cancer. 2014 Jun;61(6):960-1.

OBJECTIVE: In children, CNS-directed cancer therapy is thought to result in 
decreased cerebral white matter volumes (WMV) and subsequent neurocognitive 
deficits. This study was designed as a prospective validation of the purported 
reduction in WMV, associated influential factors, and its relationship to 
neurocognitive deficits in a very large cohort of both acute lymphoblastic 
leukemia (ALL) and malignant brain tumors (BT) survivors in comparison to an age 
similar cohort of healthy sibling controls.
PROCEDURES: The effects of host characteristics and CNS treatment intensity on 
WMV were investigated in 383 childhood cancer survivors (199 ALL, 184 BT) at 
least 12 months post-completion of therapy and 67 healthy siblings that served 
as a control group. t-Tests and multiple variable linear models were used to 
assess cross-sectional WMV and its relation with neurocognitive function.
RESULTS: BT survivors had lower WMV than ALL survivors, who had less than the 
control group. Increased CNS treatment intensity, younger age at treatment, and 
greater time since treatment were significantly associated with lower WMV. 
Additionally, cancer survivors did not perform as well as the control group on 
neurocognitive measures of intelligence, attention, and academic achievement. 
Reduced WMV had a larger impact on estimated IQ among females and children 
treated at a younger age.
CONCLUSIONS: Survivors of childhood cancer that have undergone higher intensity 
therapy at a younger age have significantly less WMV than their peers and this 
difference increases with time since therapy. Decreased WMV is associated with 
significantly lower scores in intelligence, attention, and academic performance 
in survivors.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/pbc.24947
PMCID: PMC4053257
PMID: 24464947 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


360. PLoS One. 2014 Jan 20;9(1):e85989. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0085989. 
eCollection 2014.

Modeling the effects of light and sucrose on in vitro propagated plants: a 
multiscale system analysis using artificial intelligence technology.

Gago J(1), Martínez-Núñez L(2), Landín M(3), Flexas J(4), Gallego PP(2).

Author information:
(1)Applied Plant and Soil Biology, Faculty of Biology, University of Vigo, Vigo, 
Spain ; Laboratori de Fisiologia Vegetal, Departament de Biologia, Universitat 
de les Illes Balears - Instituto Mediterráneo de Estudios Avanzados 
(UIB-IMEDEA), Palma de Mallorca, Spain.
(2)Applied Plant and Soil Biology, Faculty of Biology, University of Vigo, Vigo, 
Spain.
(3)Department of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Technology, Faculty of Pharmacy, 
University of Santiago, Santiago de Compostela, Spain.
(4)Laboratori de Fisiologia Vegetal, Departament de Biologia, Universitat de les 
Illes Balears - Instituto Mediterráneo de Estudios Avanzados (UIB-IMEDEA), Palma 
de Mallorca, Spain.

BACKGROUND: Plant acclimation is a highly complex process, which cannot be fully 
understood by analysis at any one specific level (i.e. subcellular, cellular or 
whole plant scale). Various soft-computing techniques, such as neural networks 
or fuzzy logic, were designed to analyze complex multivariate data sets and 
might be used to model large such multiscale data sets in plant biology.
METHODOLOGY AND PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: In this study we assessed the effectiveness 
of applying neuro-fuzzy logic to modeling the effects of light intensities and 
sucrose content/concentration in the in vitro culture of kiwifruit on plant 
acclimation, by modeling multivariate data from 14 parameters at different 
biological scales of organization. The model provides insights through 
application of 14 sets of straightforward rules and indicates that plants with 
lower stomatal aperture areas and higher photoinhibition and photoprotective 
status score best for acclimation. The model suggests the best condition for 
obtaining higher quality acclimatized plantlets is the combination of 2.3% 
sucrose and photonflux of 122-130 µmol m(-2) s(-1).
CONCLUSIONS: Our results demonstrate that artificial intelligence models are not 
only successful in identifying complex non-linear interactions among variables, 
by integrating large-scale data sets from different levels of biological 
organization in a holistic plant systems-biology approach, but can also be used 
successfully for inferring new results without further experimental work.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0085989
PMCID: PMC3896442
PMID: 24465829 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


361. PLoS One. 2014 Jan 22;9(1):e86258. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0086258. 
eCollection 2014.

Association of structural global brain network properties with intelligence in 
normal aging.

Fischer FU(1), Wolf D(1), Scheurich A(1), Fellgiebel A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University Medical Center Mainz, 
Mainz, Germany.

Higher general intelligence attenuates age-associated cognitive decline and the 
risk of dementia. Thus, intelligence has been associated with cognitive reserve 
or resilience in normal aging. Neurophysiologically, intelligence is considered 
as a complex capacity that is dependent on a global cognitive network rather 
than isolated brain areas. An association of structural as well as functional 
brain network characteristics with intelligence has already been reported in 
young adults. We investigated the relationship between global structural brain 
network properties, general intelligence and age in a group of 43 cognitively 
healthy elderly, age 60-85 years. Individuals were assessed cross-sectionally 
using Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Revised (WAIS-R) and diffusion-tensor 
imaging. Structural brain networks were reconstructed individually using 
deterministic tractography, global network properties (global efficiency, mean 
shortest path length, and clustering coefficient) were determined by graph 
theory and correlated to intelligence scores within both age groups. Network 
properties were significantly correlated to age, whereas no significant 
correlation to WAIS-R was observed. However, in a subgroup of 15 individuals 
aged 75 and above, the network properties were significantly correlated to 
WAIS-R. Our findings suggest that general intelligence and global properties of 
structural brain networks may not be generally associated in cognitively healthy 
elderly. However, we provide first evidence of an association between global 
structural brain network properties and general intelligence in advanced 
elderly. Intelligence might be affected by age-associated network deterioration 
only if a certain threshold of structural degeneration is exceeded. Thus, 
age-associated brain structural changes seem to be partially compensated by the 
network and the range of this compensation might be a surrogate of cognitive 
reserve or brain resilience.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0086258
PMCID: PMC3899224
PMID: 24465994 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


362. J Bioinform Comput Biol. 2014 Feb;12(1):1350017. doi: 10.1142/S0219720013500170. 
Epub 2013 Dec 2.

Is protein folding problem really a NP-complete one? First investigations.

Guyeux C(1), Côté NM, Bahi JM, Bienia W.

Author information:
(1)FEMTO-ST Institute, UMR 6174 CNRS, University of Franche-Comté, Besançon, 
France.

To determine the 3D conformation of proteins is a necessity to understand their 
functions or interactions with other molecules. It is commonly admitted that, 
when proteins fold from their primary linear structures to their final 3D 
conformations, they tend to choose the ones that minimize their free energy. To 
find the 3D conformation of a protein knowing its amino acid sequence, 
bioinformaticians use various models of different resolutions and artificial 
intelligence tools, as the protein folding prediction problem is a NP complete 
one. More precisely, to determine the backbone structure of the protein using 
the low resolution models (2D HP square and 3D HP cubic), by finding the 
conformation that minimizes free energy, is intractable exactly. Both proofs of 
NP-completeness and the 2D prediction consider that acceptable conformations 
have to satisfy a self-avoiding walk (SAW) requirement, as two different amino 
acids cannot occupy a same position in the lattice. It is shown in this document 
that the SAW requirement considered when proving NP-completeness is different 
from the SAW requirement used in various prediction programs, and that they are 
different from the real biological requirement. Indeed, the proof of NP 
completeness and the predictions in silico consider conformations that are not 
possible in practice. Consequences of this fact are investigated in this 
research work.

DOI: 10.1142/S0219720013500170
PMID: 24467756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


363. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2014 Apr;20(4):415-20. doi: 
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2014.01.002. Epub 2014 Jan 13.

Cognitive functions in Parkinson's disease: relation to disease severity and 
hallucination.

Wakamori T(1), Agari T(2), Yasuhara T(1), Kameda M(1), Kondo A(1), Shinko A(1), 
Sasada S(1), Sasaki T(1), Furuta T(3), Date I(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurological Surgery, Okayama University Graduate School of 
Medicine, Dentistry and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Japan.
(2)Department of Neurological Surgery, Okayama University Graduate School of 
Medicine, Dentistry and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Japan. Electronic address: 
agarit@cc.okayama-u.ac.jp.
(3)Department of Psychology, Kibi International University, Japan.

OBJECTIVE: We wished to relate severity of Parkinson's disease (PD) with 
cognitive function in relation to cerebral blood flow (CBF).
METHODS: Eighty-one consecutive PD patients were enrolled in this study. We used 
Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) and Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Third 
edition (WAIS-III) to evaluate cognitive functions, and three-dimensional 
stereotactic ROI template (3DSRT) and Statistical Parametric Mapping (SPM) 8 to 
evaluate single photon emission CT (SPECT) recordings of regional CBF.
RESULTS: The mean MMSE score of PD patients was 27.4 ± 2.4. The scores of most 
patients were higher than 23/30. On the other hand, the mean Full-scale IQ of PD 
patients was 88.4 ± 17.3 in WAIS-III, which was lower than that of normal 
controls. In particular, visuospatial function score of most patients was lower. 
There was significant correlation between cognitive scores and Hoehn & Yahr 
stage and hallucinatory episodes. PD Patients with stage III and IV showed 
significant deterioration in cognitive functions compared to stage II patients. 
Analysis of CBF revealed relative reductions in perfusion in the cerebral cortex 
relative to that in normal control. SPM 8 showed that cognitive functions in PD 
patients were positively correlated with rCBF in the thalamus and cingulate 
gyrus.
CONCLUSIONS: This is the study to demonstrate the cognitive impairments in PD 
patients using WAIS-III. Visuospatial dysfunction might be caused by decrease in 
rCBF in the parietal and occipital lobes and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. The 
severity of cognitive impairments in PD patients was correlated with disease 
severity and hallucinatory episodes.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.parkreldis.2014.01.002
PMID: 24467818 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


364. Rev Neurol. 2014 Feb 1;58(3):97-102.

[Benign myoclonic epilepsy in infancy: natural history and behavioral and 
cognitive outcome].

[Article in Spanish; Abstract available in Spanish from the publisher]

Domínguez-Carral J(1), García-Peñas JJ, Pérez-Jiménez MÁ, Fournier-Del Castillo 
MC, Carreras-Sáez I, Jiménez-Echevarría S.

Author information:
(1)Hospital Infantil Universitario Nino Jesus, 28009 Madrid, Espana.

INTRODUCTION: Benign myoclonic epilepsy in infancy (BMEI) is a well-defined 
electro-clinical syndrome, classically associated with a good prognosis. 
However, in the last years several studies have been published with variable 
results of neuropsychological outcome in BMEI. AIM. To analyze the natural 
history and the cognitive and behavioral outcome in BMEI patients.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We report a long-term follow-up of 10 patients with BMEI. 
During the follow-up, all the patients underwent neurocognitive and behavioral 
evaluations.
RESULTS: Sixty percent of patients became seizure free on valproic acid. The 
intelligence quotient of the whole cohort was between 74 and 93, with three 
patients in the range of borderline intelligence and six in the range of 
medium-to-low intelligence. Nine of the 10 patients met criteria for attention 
deficit hyperactivity disorder, and two patients associated another learning 
disorder. All patients showed poor motor and visuospatial coordination signs and 
three patients had a behavior disorder.
CONCLUSIONS: The term 'benign' in BMEI has to be used with caution in refer to 
its behavioral and cognitive outcome. Early onset of seizures and a worse 
epilepsy control may be risk factors of a poor neuropsychological outcome.

Publisher: TITLE: Epilepsia mioclonica benigna del lactante: evolucion natural y 
pronostico neurocognitivo y conductual.
Introduccion. La epilepsia mioclonica benigna del lactante (EMBL) es un sindrome 
electroclinico de caracteristicas homogeneas y bien definidas, considerado 
clasicamente de buen pronostico. Sin embargo, en los ultimos años se han 
publicado estudios con resultados variables en cuanto a evolucion 
neuropsicologica. Objetivo. Analizar la evolucion natural y el pronostico 
neurocognitivo y conductual de los pacientes con EMBL. Pacientes y metodos. 
Estudio retrospectivo de 10 pacientes con EMBL, con un periodo de seguimiento de 
mas de cinco años, durante los cuales se realizo una evaluacion neurocognitiva y 
conductual. Resultados. En el 60% de los pacientes las crisis se controlaron con 
acido valproico en monoterapia, y el 80% no presento nuevas crisis durante su 
seguimiento. El cociente intelectual de la cohorte se situo entre 74 y 93; tres 
pacientes tuvieron un cociente intelectual en rango de inteligencia limite, y 
seis, en rango de inteligencia media-baja. Nueve pacientes cumplieron criterios 
de trastorno por deficit de atencion/hiperactividad y dos asociaban otro 
trastorno del aprendizaje, uno de ellos trastorno de aprendizaje no verbal, y el 
otro, trastorno especifico de la lectoescritura. Todos los pacientes presentaron 
datos de pobre coordinacion motriz y visuoespacial, y tres fueron diagnosticados 
de trastorno de conducta. Conclusiones. El termino 'benigno' en la EMBL debe 
utilizarse con precaucion en cuanto a su pronostico neurocognitivo y conductual. 
El inicio precoz y un peor control de las crisis podrian suponer factores de 
riesgo de evolucion neuropsicologica desfavorable.

PMID: 24469935 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


365. Neurocase. 2015;21(2):144-7. doi: 10.1080/13554794.2013.878724. Epub 2014 Jan 
28.

Exceptional verbal intelligence after hemispherotomy in a child with Rasmussen 
encephalitis.

Grosmaitre C(1), Jambaqué I, Dorfmuller G, Rodrigo S, Ville D, Delalande O, 
Bulteau C.

Author information:
(1)a Inserm U663 , Paris , France.

We report a longitudinal case study of a left-handed girl who underwent left 
hemispherotomy at 7 years for Rasmussen encephalitis (RE). Presurgical 
evaluation showed mild hemiparesis, no visual defect, and light 
neuropsychological impairment with short-term memory weakness. Language fMRI 
showed a right hemispheric dominance. Postoperatively, the patient exhibited 
right hemiplegia and hemianopsia but preserved intellectual capacities. She 
became seizure-free, and antiepileptic medication was discontinued. Long-term 
follow-up showed very high verbal intelligence at 11 years of age (VCI of 155) 
and improvement in working memory as well as language and reading abilities. 
Furthermore, a significant visuoverbal discrepancy became increasingly 
pronounced. Thus, early surgical treatment of epilepsy avoided the global 
cognitive deterioration usually associated with RE. Finally, such a high level 
of verbal functioning combined with low spatial reasoning with a single 
hemisphere provides additional information on the neurocognitive profile of 
children with RE after hemispherotomy.

DOI: 10.1080/13554794.2013.878724
PMID: 24471481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


366. PLoS One. 2014 Jan 24;9(1):e86271. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0086271. 
eCollection 2014.

Does invasion success reflect superior cognitive ability? A case study of two 
congeneric lizard species (Lampropholis, Scincidae).

Bezzina CN(1), Amiel JJ(1), Shine R(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Biological Sciences A08, University of Sydney, Sydney, New South 
Wales, Australia.

A species' intelligence may reliably predict its invasive potential. If this is 
true, then we might expect invasive species to be better at learning novel tasks 
than non-invasive congeners. To test this hypothesis, we exposed two sympatric 
species of Australian scincid lizards, Lampropholis delicata (invasive) and L. 
guichenoti (non-invasive) to standardized maze-learning tasks. Both species 
rapidly decreased the time they needed to find a food reward, but latencies were 
always higher for L. delicata than L. guichenoti. More detailed analysis showed 
that neither species actually learned the position of the food reward; they were 
as likely to turn the wrong way at the end of the study as at the beginning. 
Instead, their times decreased because they spent less time immobile in later 
trials; and L. guichenoti arrived at the reward sooner because they exhibited 
"freezing" (immobility) less than L. delicata. Hence, our data confirm that the 
species differ in their performance in this standardized test, but neither the 
decreasing time to find the reward, nor the interspecific disparity in those 
times, are reflective of cognitive abilities. Behavioural differences may well 
explain why one species is invasive and one is not, but those differences do not 
necessarily involve cognitive ability.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0086271
PMCID: PMC3901674
PMID: 24475097 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


367. Schizophr Bull. 2014 Nov;40(6):1300-7. doi: 10.1093/schbul/sbt239. Epub 2014 Jan 
29.

Self-disorders and the schizophrenia spectrum: a study of 100 first hospital 
admissions.

Nordgaard J(1), Parnas J(2).

Author information:
(1)Psychiatric Center Hvidovre, University of Copenhagen, Broendbyoestervej 160, 
2605 Broendby, Denmark; Julie_nordgaard@dadlnet.dk.
(2)Psychiatric Center Hvidovre, University of Copenhagen, Broendbyoestervej 160, 
2605 Broendby, Denmark; Center for Subjectivity Research Center, University of 
Copenhagen, Njalsgade 140, 2300 Copenhagen, Denmark.

INTRODUCTION: Self-disorders (SD) have been described as a core feature of 
schizophrenia both in classical and recent psychopathological literature. 
However, the specificity of SD for the schizophrenia spectrum disorders has 
never been demonstrated in a diagnostically heterogeneous sample, nor has the 
concurrent validity of SD been examined.
AIM: (1) To examine the specificity of Examination of Anomalous Self-Experiences 
(EASE) measured SD to the schizophrenia spectrum disorder in first contact 
inpatients, (2) to explore the internal consistency and factorial structure of 
the EASE, (3) to assess the concurrent validity of SD by exploring correlations 
between SD and the canonical psychopathological dimensions of schizophrenia, (4) 
to explore relations of SD to intelligence, sociodemographic, and extrinsic 
illness characteristics.
METHODS: A total of 100 consecutive first admission patients underwent a 
comprehensive psychopathological examination and an assessment of SD with the 
EASE scale. The diagnostic distribution of the EASE scores was tested with 
ANOVA, whereas the relations between the EASE scores and other symptomatic 
dimensions of schizophrenia were tested with Spearman's rho. A potential 
factorial structure and the internal consistency of the EASE scale were also 
examined.
RESULTS: SD aggregated significantly in the schizophrenia spectrum disorders, 
with no differences between schizophrenia and schizotypal disorders. EASE scores 
correlated moderately with canonical psychopathological dimensions of 
schizophrenia. Factor analysis of the EASE disclosed only one factor and the 
internal consistency of the EASE was excellent.
CONCLUSIONS: SD aggregate selectively in the schizophrenia spectrum disorders, 
with similar levels in schizophrenia and schizotypy. The study lends validity to 
the view of SD as an experiential vulnerability phenotype of the schizophrenia 
spectrum disorders.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Maryland Psychiatric Research Center.

DOI: 10.1093/schbul/sbt239
PMCID: PMC4193705
PMID: 24476579 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


368. Front Psychol. 2014 Jan 28;5:13. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.00013. eCollection 
2014.

Phonemic awareness as a pathway to number transcoding.

Lopes-Silva JB(1), Moura R(2), Júlio-Costa A(2), Haase VG(3), Wood G(4).

Author information:
(1)Developmental Neuropsychology Laboratory, Department of Psychology, 
Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais Belo Horizonte, Brazil ; Programa de 
Pós-graduação em Saúde da Criança e do Adolescente, Universidade Federal de 
Minas Gerais Belo Horizonte, Brazil.
(2)Developmental Neuropsychology Laboratory, Department of Psychology, 
Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais Belo Horizonte, Brazil ; Programa de 
Pós-graduação em Neurociências, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais Belo 
Horizonte, Brazil.
(3)Developmental Neuropsychology Laboratory, Department of Psychology, 
Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais Belo Horizonte, Brazil ; Programa de 
Pós-graduação em Saúde da Criança e do Adolescente, Universidade Federal de 
Minas Gerais Belo Horizonte, Brazil ; Programa de Pós-graduação em 
Neurociências, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais Belo Horizonte, Brazil.
(4)Department of Neuropsychology, Institute of Psychology, 
Karl-Franzens-University of Graz Graz, Austria.

Although verbal and numerical abilities have a well-established interaction, the 
impact of phonological processing on numeric abilities remains elusive. The aim 
of this study is to investigate the role of phonemic awareness in number 
processing and to explore its association with other functions such as working 
memory and magnitude processing. One hundred seventy-two children in 2nd grade 
to 4th grade were evaluated in terms of their intelligence, number transcoding, 
phonemic awareness, verbal and visuospatial working memory and number sense 
(non-symbolic magnitude comparison) performance. All of the children had normal 
intelligence. Among these measurements of magnitude processing, working memory 
and phonemic awareness, only the last was retained in regression and path models 
predicting transcoding ability. Phonemic awareness mediated the influence of 
verbal working memory on number transcoding. The evidence suggests that phonemic 
awareness significantly affects number transcoding. Such an association is 
robust and should be considered in cognitive models of both dyslexia and 
dyscalculia.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.00013
PMCID: PMC3904123
PMID: 24478744


369. Psychol Health Med. 2014;19(6):673-9. doi: 10.1080/13548506.2014.880492. Epub 
2014 Jan 30.

Psychosocial and contextual determinants of health among infertile women: a 
cross-cultural study.

Batool SS(1), de Visser RO.

Author information:
(1)a Department of Psychology , GC University Lahore , Lahore , Pakistan.

The purpose of this study was to assess the impact of emotional intelligence, 
social support and contextual factors on the general health of infertile women. 
A sample of involuntarily childless women aged 25-45 living in the UK (n = 148) 
and Pakistan (n = 164) completed a self-administered questionnaire. Although 
there were no significant differences in total scores on the General Health 
Questionnaire (GHQ), British women reported greater anxiety, insomnia and social 
dysfunction, and Pakistani women reported greater depression and somatic 
symptoms. Important differences in putative correlates of GHQ scores were found 
between the samples. British women reported significantly greater emotional 
satisfaction, greater satisfaction with medical information, greater 
satisfaction with medical care, and greater actual received support Pakistani 
women reported greater emotional intelligence. Regression analysis to identify 
correlates of higher GHQ scores revealed that greater received social support 
was a common correlate of better GHQ scores among British and Pakistani women. 
Additional correlates of better GHQ scores among British women were greater 
emotional intelligence and more emotional satisfaction in their relationships 
(overall R(2) = 0.41). Additional correlates among Pakistani women were greater 
education, greater perceived available social support and a nuclear family 
system rather than an extended family (overall R(2) =0. 40). Results suggest 
that psychological facets of infertility should be addressed as part of a 
holistic approach to the care of infertile women. They highlight a need to 
improve social support and to incorporate emotional intelligence training in 
therapeutic interventions to improve the psychological well-being of infertile 
women.

DOI: 10.1080/13548506.2014.880492
PMID: 24479424 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


370. Child Neuropsychol. 2015;21(2):121-49. doi: 10.1080/09297049.2013.879111. Epub 
2014 Jan 30.

A cross-cultural investigation of inhibitory control, generative fluency, and 
anxiety symptoms in Romanian and Russian preschoolers.

Cheie L(1), Veraksa A, Zinchenko Y, Gorovaya A, Visu-Petra L.

Author information:
(1)a Developmental Psychology Lab, Department of Psychology , Babes-Bolyai 
University , Cluj-Napoca , Romania.

The current study focused on the early development of inhibitory control in 5- 
to 7-year-old children attending kindergarten in two Eastern-European countries, 
Romania and Russia. These two countries share many aspects of child-rearing and 
educational practices, previously documented to influence the development of 
inhibitory control. Using the Lurian-based developmental approach offered by the 
Developmental Neuropsychological Assessment battery, the study aimed to 
contribute to cross-cultural developmental neuropsychology by exploring (a) 
early interrelationships between subcomponents of inhibitory control (response 
suppression and attention control) and generative fluency (verbal and figural) 
in these two cultures, as well as (b) the predictive value of external factors 
(culture and maternal education) and individual differences (age, gender, 
nonverbal intelligence, trait anxiety) on inhibitory control and fluency 
outcomes in children from both countries. First, findings in both culture 
samples suggest that even at this young age, the construct of inhibitory control 
cannot be considered a unitary entity. Second, differences in maternal education 
were not predictive of either inhibitory control or fluency scores. However, 
children's attention control performance varied as a function of culture, and 
the direction of these cultural effects differed by whether the target outcome 
involved performance accuracy versus efficiency as an output. Findings also 
confirmed the previously documented intensive developmental improvement in 
preschoolers' inhibitory control during this period, influencing measures of 
response suppression and particularly attention control. Finally, the results 
further stress the importance of individual differences effects in trait anxiety 
on attention control efficiency across cultures.

DOI: 10.1080/09297049.2013.879111
PMID: 24479756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


371. Forensic Sci Int. 2014 Mar;236:181-90. doi: 10.1016/j.forsciint.2013.12.045. 
Epub 2014 Jan 14.

Forensic intelligence framework--Part I: Induction of a transversal model by 
comparing illicit drugs and false identity documents monitoring.

Morelato M(1), Baechler S(2), Ribaux O(3), Beavis A(1), Tahtouh M(4), Kirkbride 
P(5), Roux C(1), Margot P(3).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Forensic Science, University of Technology, Broadway, Sydney, NSW, 
Australia.
(2)Ecole des Sciences Criminelles, Université de Lausanne, 1015 Lausanne, 
Switzerland; Service forensique, Police Neuchâteloise, Rue des poudrières 14, 
2006 Neuchâtel, Switzerland. Electronic address: Simon.Baechler@unil.ch.
(3)Ecole des Sciences Criminelles, Université de Lausanne, 1015 Lausanne, 
Switzerland.
(4)Forensics, Australian Federal Police, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(5)School of Chemistry and Physics, Flinders University, Bedford Park, South 
Australia, Australia.

Forensic intelligence is a distinct dimension of forensic science. Forensic 
intelligence processes have mostly been developed to address either a specific 
type of trace or a specific problem. Even though these empirical developments 
have led to successes, they are trace-specific in nature and contribute to the 
generation of silos which hamper the establishment of a more general and 
transversal model. Forensic intelligence has shown some important perspectives 
but more general developments are required to address persistent challenges. 
This will ensure the progress of the discipline as well as its widespread 
implementation in the future. This paper demonstrates that the description of 
forensic intelligence processes, their architectures, and the methods for 
building them can, at a certain level, be abstracted from the type of traces 
considered. A comparative analysis is made between two forensic intelligence 
approaches developed independently in Australia and in Europe regarding the 
monitoring of apparently very different kind of problems: illicit drugs and 
false identity documents. An inductive effort is pursued to identify 
similarities and to outline a general model. Besides breaking barriers between 
apparently separate fields of study in forensic science and intelligence, this 
transversal model would assist in defining forensic intelligence, its role and 
place in policing, and in identifying its contributions and limitations. The 
model will facilitate the paradigm shift from the current case-by-case reactive 
attitude towards a proactive approach by serving as a guideline for the use of 
forensic case data in an intelligence-led perspective. A follow-up article will 
specifically address issues related to comparison processes, decision points and 
organisational issues regarding forensic intelligence (part II).

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.forsciint.2013.12.045
PMID: 24480784


372. Microbiol Spectr. 2014 Feb;2(1):OH-0015-2012. doi: 
10.1128/microbiolspec.OH-0015-2012.

Web-Based Surveillance Systems for Human, Animal, and Plant Diseases.

Madoff LC(1), Li A(2).

Author information:
(1)ProMED-mail, University of Massachusetts Medical School, Massachusetts 
Department of Public Health, Jamaica Plain, MA 02130.
(2)City University of Hong Kong, Department of Biology and Chemistry, Kowloon 
Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong.

The emergence of infectious diseases, caused by novel pathogens or the spread of 
existing ones to new populations and regions, represents a continuous threat to 
humans and other species. The early detection of emerging human, animal, and 
plant diseases is critical to preventing the spread of infection and protecting 
the health of our species and environment. Today, more than 75% of emerging 
infectious diseases are estimated to be zoonotic and capable of crossing species 
barriers and diminishing food supplies. Traditionally, surveillance of diseases 
has relied on a hierarchy of health professionals that can be costly to build 
and maintain, leading to a delay or interruption in reporting. However, 
Internet-based surveillance systems bring another dimension to epidemiology by 
utilizing technology to collect, organize, and disseminate information in a more 
timely manner. Partially and fully automated systems allow for earlier detection 
of disease outbreaks by searching for information from both formal sources 
(e.g., World Health Organization and government ministry reports) and informal 
sources (e.g., blogs, online media sources, and social networks). Web-based 
applications display disparate information online or disperse it through e-mail 
to subscribers or the general public. Web-based early warning systems, such as 
ProMED-mail, the Global Public Health Intelligence Network (GPHIN), and Health 
Map, have been able to recognize emerging infectious diseases earlier than 
traditional surveillance systems. These systems, which are continuing to evolve, 
are now widely utilized by individuals, humanitarian organizations, and 
government health ministries.

DOI: 10.1128/microbiolspec.OH-0015-2012
PMID: 26082109 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


373. J Neurosurg. 2014 Apr;120(4):937-44. doi: 10.3171/2013.12.JNS131790. Epub 2014 
Jan 31.

Subtle structural change demonstrated on T2-weighted images after clipping of 
unruptured intracranial aneurysm: negative effects on cognitive performance.

Inoue T(1), Ohwaki K, Tamura A, Tsutsumi K, Saito I, Saito N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Fuji Brain Institute and Hospital, Shizuoka;

OBJECT: The mechanisms underlying neurocognitive changes after surgical clipping 
of unruptured intracranial aneurysms (UIAs) are poorly understood. The aim of 
this study was to investigate factors that determine postoperative cognitive 
decline after UIA surgery.
METHODS: Data from 109 patients who underwent surgical clipping of a UIA were 
retrospectively evaluated. These patients underwent neuropsychological 
examinations (NPEs), including assessment by the Wechsler Adult Intelligence 
Scale-Third Edition and the Wechsler Memory Scale-Revised before and 6 months 
after surgical clipping of the UIA. Results of NPEs were converted into z 
scores, from which pre- and postoperative cognitive composite scores (CSpre and 
CSpost) were obtained. The association between the change in CS between pre- and 
postoperative NPEs (that is, CSpost - CSpre [CSpost - pre]) and various 
variables was assessed. These latter variables included surgical approach 
(anterior interhemispheric approach or other approach), structural change 
evidenced on T2-weighted imaging at 6 months, somatosensory evoked potential 
amplitude decrease greater than 50% during aneurysm manipulation, preexisting 
multiple ischemic lesions in the lacunar region detected on preoperative 
T2-weighted imaging, and total microsurgical time. Paired t-tests of the NPE 
scores were performed to determine the net effect of these factors on 
neurocognitive function at 6 months.
RESULTS: A significant CSpost - pre decrease was observed in patients with a 
structural change on postoperative T2-weighted imaging when compared with those 
without such a change on postoperative T2-weighted imaging (-0.181 vs 0.043, p = 
0.012). Multiple regression analysis demonstrated that postoperative T2-weighted 
imaging change independently and negatively correlated with CSpost - pre (p = 
0.0005). In group-rate analysis, postoperative NPE scores were significantly 
improved relative to preoperative scores.
CONCLUSIONS: Minimal structural damage visualized on T2-weighted images at 6 
months as a result of factors such as pial/microvascular injury and excessive 
retraction during surgical manipulation could cause subtle but significant 
negative effects on postoperative neurocognitive function after surgical 
clipping of a UIA. However, this detrimental effect was small, and based on the 
group-rate analysis, the authors conclude that successful and meticulous 
surgical clipping of a UIA does not adversely affect postoperative cognitive 
function.

DOI: 10.3171/2013.12.JNS131790
PMID: 24484231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


374. Semin Nucl Med. 2014 Mar;44(2):146-58. doi: 10.1053/j.semnuclmed.2013.10.007.

Computer-assisted diagnosis in renal nuclear medicine: rationale, methodology, 
and interpretative criteria for diuretic renography.

Taylor AT(1), Garcia EV(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology and Imaging Sciences, Emory University School of 
Medicine, Atlanta, GA. Electronic address: ataylor@emory.edu.
(2)Department of Radiology and Imaging Sciences, Emory University School of 
Medicine, Atlanta, GA.

The goal of artificial intelligence, expert systems, decision support systems, 
and computer-assisted diagnosis (CAD) in imaging is the development and 
implementation of software to assist in the detection and evaluation of 
abnormalities, to alert physicians to cognitive biases, to reduce intraobserver 
and interobserver variability, and to facilitate the interpretation of studies 
at a faster rate and with a higher level of accuracy. These developments are 
needed to meet the challenges resulting from a rapid increase in the volume of 
diagnostic imaging studies coupled with a concurrent increase in the number and 
complexity of images in each patient data. The convergence of an expanding 
knowledge base and escalating time constraints increases the likelihood of 
physician errors. Errors are even more likely when physicians interpret 
low-volume studies such as technetium-99m-mercaptoacetyltriglycine diuretic 
scans where imagers may have had limited training or experience. Decision 
support systems include neural networks, case-based reasoning, expert systems, 
and statistical systems. iRENEX (renal expert) is an expert system for diuretic 
renography that uses a set of rules obtained from human experts to analyze a 
knowledge base of both clinical parameters and quantitative parameters derived 
from the renogram. Initial studies have shown that the interpretations provided 
by iRENEX are comparable to the interpretations of a panel of experts. iRENEX 
provides immediate patient-specific feedback at the time of scan interpretation, 
can be queried to provide the reasons for its conclusions, and can be used as an 
educational tool to teach trainees to better interpret renal scans. It also has 
the capacity to populate a structured reporting module and generate a clear and 
concise impression based on the elements contained in the report; adherence to 
the procedural and data entry components of the structured reporting module 
ensures and documents procedural competency. Finally, although the focus is CAD 
applied to diuretic renography, this review offers a window into the rationale, 
methodology, and broader applications of computer-assisted diagnosis in medical 
imaging.

© 2013 Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1053/j.semnuclmed.2013.10.007
PMCID: PMC3995408
PMID: 24484751 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


375. Am J Orthod Dentofacial Orthop. 2014 Feb;145(2):203-6. doi: 
10.1016/j.ajodo.2013.10.016.

Impact of metal and ceramic fixed orthodontic appliances on judgments of beauty 
and other face-related attributes.

Fonseca LM(1), Araújo TM(2), Santos AR(3), Faber J(4).

Author information:
(1)Private practice, Brasilia; invited professor, Department of Orthodontics, 
University of Brasilia, Brasilia, Brazil. Electronic address: 
lilianmfonseca@gmail.com.
(2)Head and chairperson, Department of Orthodontics, Federal University of 
Bahia, Salvador, Brazil.
(3)Resident, Department of Orthodontics, Federal University of Bahia, Salvador, 
Brazil.
(4)Adjunct professor, Department of Orthodontics, University of Brasilia, 
Brasilia, Brazil.

INTRODUCTION: Physical attributes, behavior, and personal ornaments exert a 
direct influence on how a person's beauty and personality are judged. The aim of 
this study was to investigate how people who wear a fixed orthodontic appliance 
see themselves and are seen by others in social settings.
METHODS: A total of 60 adults evaluated their own smiling faces in 3 different 
scenarios: without a fixed orthodontic appliance, wearing a metal fixed 
orthodontic appliance, and wearing an esthetic fixed orthodontic appliance. 
Furthermore, 15 adult raters randomly assessed the same faces in standardized 
front-view facial photographs. Both the subjects and the raters answered a 
questionnaire in which they evaluated criteria on a numbered scale ranging from 
0 to 10. The models judged their own beauty, and the raters assigned scores to 
beauty, age, intelligence, ridiculousness, extroversion, and success.
RESULTS: The self-evaluations showed decreased beauty scores (P <0.0001) when a 
fixed orthodontic appliance, especially a metal one, was being worn. There was 
no statistically significant difference between the 3 situations in the 6 
criteria analyzed.
CONCLUSIONS: A fixed orthodontic appliance did not affect how personal 
attributes are assessed. However, fixed orthodontic appliances apparently 
changed the subjects' self-perceptions when they looked in the mirror.

Copyright © 2014 American Association of Orthodontists. Published by Mosby, Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajodo.2013.10.016
PMID: 24485735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


376. Intelligence. 2014 Jan;42(100):22-30. doi: 10.1016/j.intell.2013.09.005.

Neural efficiency as a function of task demands.

Dunst B(1), Benedek M(1), Jauk E(1), Bergner S(2), Koschutnig K(1), Sommer M(1), 
Ischebeck A(1), Spinath B(3), Arendasy M(1), Bühner M(4), Freudenthaler H(1), 
Neubauer AC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Graz, Austria.
(2)Department of Psychology, University of Graz, Austria ; Department of 
Leadership and Entrepreneurship, University of Graz, Austria.
(3)Department of Psychology, Ruprecht-Karls-University Heidelberg, Germany.
(4)Department of Psychology, Ludwig-Maximilians-University Munich, Germany.

The neural efficiency hypothesis describes the phenomenon that brighter 
individuals show lower brain activation than less bright individuals when 
working on the same cognitive tasks. The present study investigated whether the 
brain activation-intelligence relationship still applies when more versus less 
intelligent individuals perform tasks with a comparable person-specific task 
difficulty. In an fMRI-study, 58 persons with lower (n = 28) or respectively 
higher (n = 30) intelligence worked on simple and difficult inductive reasoning 
tasks having the same person-specific task difficulty. Consequently, less bright 
individuals received sample-based easy and medium tasks, whereas bright subjects 
received sample-based medium and difficult tasks. This design also allowed a 
comparison of lower versus higher intelligent individuals when working on the 
same tasks (i.e. sample-based medium task difficulty). In line with 
expectations, differences in task performance and in brain activation were only 
found for the subset of tasks with the same sample-based task difficulty, but 
not when comparing tasks with the same person-specific task difficulty. These 
results suggest that neural efficiency reflects an (ability-dependent) adaption 
of brain activation to the respective task demands.

DOI: 10.1016/j.intell.2013.09.005
PMCID: PMC3907682
PMID: 24489416


377. Intelligence. 2014 Jan;42(100):83-88. doi: 10.1016/j.intell.2013.11.002.

Genetic influence on family socioeconomic status and children's intelligence.

Trzaskowski M(1), Harlaar N(2), Arden R(1), Krapohl E(1), Rimfeld K(1), McMillan 
A(1), Dale PS(3), Plomin R(1).

Author information:
(1)King's College London, MRC Social, Genetic and Developmental Psychiatry 
Centre, Institute of Psychiatry, De Crespigny Park, London, SE5 8AF, United 
Kingdom.
(2)Department of Psychology and Neuroscience, University of Colorado Boulder, 
345 UCB, Boulder, CO 80309, United States.
(3)Department of Speech and Hearing Sciences, University of New Mexico, 1700 
Lomas Blvd, NE Suite 1300, Albuquerque, NM 87131, United States.

Environmental measures used widely in the behavioral sciences show nearly as 
much genetic influence as behavioral measures, a critical finding for 
interpreting associations between environmental factors and children's 
development. This research depends on the twin method that compares monozygotic 
and dizygotic twins, but key aspects of children's environment such as 
socioeconomic status (SES) cannot be investigated in twin studies because they 
are the same for children growing up together in a family. Here, using a new 
technique applied to DNA from 3000 unrelated children, we show significant 
genetic influence on family SES, and on its association with children's IQ at 
ages 7 and 12. In addition to demonstrating the ability to investigate genetic 
influence on between-family environmental measures, our results emphasize the 
need to consider genetics in research and policy on family SES and its 
association with children's IQ.

DOI: 10.1016/j.intell.2013.11.002
PMCID: PMC3907681
PMID: 24489417


378. PLoS One. 2014 Jan 29;9(1):e87771. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0087771. 
eCollection 2014.

Incontinentia pigmenti: learning disabilities are a fundamental hallmark of the 
disease.

Pizzamiglio MR(1), Piccardi L(2), Bianchini F(3), Canzano L(3), Palermo L(3), 
Fusco F(4), D'Antuono G(1), Gelmini C(5), Garavelli L(5), Ursini MV(6).

Author information:
(1)IRCCS, Santa Lucia Foundation, Rome, Italy.
(2)IRCCS, Santa Lucia Foundation, Rome, Italy ; Life, Health and Environmental 
Science Department, University of L'Aquila, L'Aquila, Italy.
(3)IRCCS, Santa Lucia Foundation, Rome, Italy ; Psychology Department, Sapienza 
University, Rome, Italy.
(4)Institute of Genetics and Biophysics "Adriano Buzzati Traverso", Naples, 
Italy.
(5)Clinical Genetics Unit, Obstetrics and Pediatric Department, Istituto di 
Ricovero e Cura a Carattere Scientifico, Arcispedale Santa Maria Nuova Hospital, 
Reggio Emilia, Italy.
(6)Institute of Genetics and Biophysics "Adriano Buzzati Traverso", Naples, 
Italy ; Fondazione IRCCS SDN, Naples, Italy.

Studies suggest that genetic factors are associated with the etiology of 
learning disabilities. Incontinentia Pigmenti (IP, OMIM#308300), which is caused 
by mutations of the IKBKG/NEMO gene, is a rare X-linked genomic disorder 
(1:10000/20:000) that affects the neuroectodermal tissues. It always affects the 
skin and sometimes the hair, teeth, nails, eyes and central nervous system 
(CNS). Data from IP patients demonstrate the heterogeneity of the clinical 
phenotype; about 30% have CNS manifestations. This extreme variability suggests 
that IP patients might also have learning disabilities. However, no studies in 
the literature have evaluated the cognitive profile of IP patients. In fact, the 
learning disability may go unnoticed in general neurological analyses, which 
focus on major disabling manifestations of the CNS. Here, we investigated the 
neuropsychological outcomes of a selected group of IP-patients by focusing on 
learning disabilities. We enrolled 10 women with IP (7 without mental 
retardation and 3 with mild to severe mental retardation) whose clinical 
diagnosis had been confirmed by the presence of a recurrent deletion in the 
IKBKG/NEMO gene. The participants were recruited from the Italian patients' 
association (I.P.A.SS.I. Onlus). They were submitted to a cognitive assessment 
that included the Wechsler Adult Intelligence scale and a battery of tests 
examining reading, arithmetic and writing skills. We found that 7 patients had 
deficits in calculation/arithmetic reasoning and reading but not writing skills; 
the remaining 3 had severe to mild intellectual disabilities. Results of this 
comprehensive evaluation of the molecular and psychoneurological aspects of IP 
make it possible to place "learning disabilities" among the CNS manifestations 
of the disease and suggest that the IKBKG/NEMO gene is a genetic determinant of 
this CNS defect. Our findings indicate the importance of an appropriate 
psychoneurological evaluation of IP patients, which includes early assessment of 
learning abilities, to prevent the onset of this deficit.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0087771
PMCID: PMC3906222
PMID: 24489960 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


379. Biomed Eng Online. 2014 Feb 3;13:8. doi: 10.1186/1475-925X-13-8.

Hybrid soft computing systems for electromyographic signals analysis: a review.

Xie HB(1), Guo T, Bai S, Dokos S.

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Biomedical Engineering, University of New South Wales, 
Sydney 2052, Australia. xiehb@sjtu.org.

Electromyographic (EMG) is a bio-signal collected on human skeletal muscle. 
Analysis of EMG signals has been widely used to detect human movement intent, 
control various human-machine interfaces, diagnose neuromuscular diseases, and 
model neuromusculoskeletal system. With the advances of artificial intelligence 
and soft computing, many sophisticated techniques have been proposed for such 
purpose. Hybrid soft computing system (HSCS), the integration of these different 
techniques, aims to further improve the effectiveness, efficiency, and accuracy 
of EMG analysis. This paper reviews and compares key combinations of neural 
network, support vector machine, fuzzy logic, evolutionary computing, and swarm 
intelligence for EMG analysis. Our suggestions on the possible future 
development of HSCS in EMG analysis are also given in terms of basic soft 
computing techniques, further combination of these techniques, and their other 
applications in EMG analysis.

DOI: 10.1186/1475-925X-13-8
PMCID: PMC3922626
PMID: 24490979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


380. Brain Dev. 2014 Nov;36(10):892-8. doi: 10.1016/j.braindev.2013.12.004. Epub 2014 
Feb 1.

Epilepsy with myoclonic absences in siblings.

Cherian A(1), Jabeen SA(2), Kandadai RM(1), Iype T(1), Moturi P(3), Reddy M(3), 
Kanikannan MA(3), Borgohain R(3), Padmanabhan S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Medical College Hospital, Trivandrum, Kerala, India.
(2)Department of Neurology, Nizam's Institute of Medical Sciences, Punjagutta, 
Hyderabad, India. Electronic address: drjabeennims@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Neurology, Nizam's Institute of Medical Sciences, Punjagutta, 
Hyderabad, India.

BACKGROUND: Epilepsy with myoclonic absences (EMAs) is a distinct form of 
childhood epilepsy characterized by a peculiar seizure type that identifies this 
condition.
PURPOSE: To describe the clinical, electroencephalographic features, treatment 
strategies and outcome in this first case series of two siblings with normal 
intelligence presenting with EMAs.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Both siblings underwent video-polygraphic investigations 
(simultaneous recording of electroencephalogram [EEG] and electromyogram [EMG] 
from deltoids), high-resolution magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), karyotyping, 
neuropsychological evaluation and language assessment.
RESULTS: Both the children had a mean age of onset of prototype seizures by 3.5 
years. Myoclonic absences (MAs) were characterized by rhythmic, bilateral, 
synchronous, symmetric 3-Hz spike-wave discharges, associated with EMG myoclonic 
bursts at 3 Hz, superimposed on a progressively increasing tonic muscle 
contraction. The interictal EEG showed a normal background activity with bursts 
of generalized spike and waves (SWs) as well as rare focal SWs independently 
over bilateral temporal and frontal regions. Increase in the seizure frequency 
from 5 to 100/day was observed due to use of carbamazepine and phenobarbitone 
which decreased with its withdrawal and introduction of valproate. Though 
lamotrigine was given as an add on to valproate, it did not benefit them and was 
therefore replaced by topiramate at 3.5 mg/kg/day which has maintained them on 
remission at one year follow up.
CONCLUSIONS: Recognition of this ictal pattern allows identification and 
differentiation of EMAs from other seizure types. Idiopathic and symptomatic 
EMAs need to be differentiated from childhood absence epilepsy with myoclonia. 
MAs are worsened by drugs like carbamazepine while valproate either alone or in 
combination with topiramate (preferred to lamotrigine) gives excellent outcome.

Copyright © 2014 The Japanese Society of Child Neurology. Published by Elsevier 
B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.braindev.2013.12.004
PMID: 24491945 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


381. Acad Psychiatry. 2014 Aug;38(4):510-3. doi: 10.1007/s40596-014-0048-4. Epub 2014 
Feb 4.

Teaching residents about emotional intelligence and its impact on leadership.

Johnson JM(1), Stern TA.

Author information:
(1)The Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA, 
Jjohnson54@partners.org.

OBJECTIVE: Although leadership is a core component of the work life of 
physicians, most physicians are ill-prepared to assume leadership roles upon 
completion of residency training. The authors sought to determine if medical 
residents could learn the components of emotional intelligence and thereby 
facilitate improved leadership styles.
METHODS: The authors created an educational workshop that included readings 
(provided to attendees in preparation for the workshop), a formalized 
presentation on emotional intelligence, and role-playing of scenarios (with 
debriefing and discussion) involving leadership opportunities.
RESULTS: The majority of participants reported that they left the workshop more 
informed about leadership and with more skills that could enhance their roles as 
leaders.
CONCLUSIONS: While enhancing knowledge and skills, which were demonstrated after 
attendance at a seminar, additional measures of effective leadership are still 
needed.

DOI: 10.1007/s40596-014-0048-4
PMID: 24493362 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


382. J Diabetes Metab Disord. 2014 Feb 4;13(1):27. doi: 10.1186/2251-6581-13-27.

Executive functions and information processing in patients with type 2 diabetes 
in comparison to pre-diabetic patients.

Nazaribadie M, Amini M, Ahmadpanah M(1), Asgari K, Jamlipaghale S, Nazaribadie 
S.

Author information:
(1)Research Center for Behavioral Disorders and Substances Abuse, Hamadan 
University of Medical Sciences, Hamadan, Iran. m1ahmad2000@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Diabetes is associated with cognitive decline or dementia. The 
purpose of this study was to assess the executive functions and information 
processing in patients with type 2diabetes in comparison to pre-diabetic 
patients and normal subjects in Endocrine and Metabolism Research Center of 
Isfahan City from April to July 2011.
METHODS: The sample consisted of 32 patients with type 2 diabetes, 28 
pre-diabetic patients and 30 healthy individuals. Executive functions were 
assessed by Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST). Information processing was 
assessed by Paced Auditory Serial Addition Test (PASAT) and sub tests of 
Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Revised (WAIS-R).
RESULTS: There was a significant difference among 3 groups, after the variables 
of age, sex and academic status were controlled (p ≤ 0.001). The pairwise 
comparisons of executive functions among three groups suggest a significant 
difference between diabetic and normal groups in WCST (perseveration) p = 0.018, 
and significant difference between diabetic and pre-diabetic patient in WCST 
(perseveration) p = 0.019. But there was no difference between three groups in 
WCST (category) and WCST (conceptual responses). The pairwise comparisons of 
information processing among three groups, suggest a significant difference 
between diabetic and normal groups in PASAT3". PASAT2", and Symbol coding (P = 
0.003, P = 0.009, and P = 0.001, respectively). There was a significant 
correlation between demographic variable (FBS, HbA1c) and Symbol coding p = 
0.05, p = 0.01 respectively) and significant correlation between (cholesterol) 
and WCST (conceptual responses) p = 0.05. The other variables were not 
correlated.
CONCLUSION: There were significant differences in executive function and 
information processing in patients with type 2 diabetic and normal individuals. 
Thus, monitoring neuropsychological status besides controlling levels of blood 
sugar in these patients is important.

DOI: 10.1186/2251-6581-13-27
PMCID: PMC3938133
PMID: 24495302


383. Neuroimage. 2014 May 15;92:1-7. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2014.01.044. Epub 2014 
Feb 2.

Examining brain structures associated with perceived stress in a large sample of 
young adults via voxel-based morphometry.

Li H(1), Li W(1), Wei D(1), Chen Q(1), Jackson T(1), Zhang Q(2), Qiu J(3).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Cognition and Personality (SWU), Ministry of Education, 
Chongqing 400715, China; Faculty of Psychology, Southwest University, Chongqing 
400715, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Cognition and Personality (SWU), Ministry of Education, 
Chongqing 400715, China; Faculty of Psychology, Southwest University, Chongqing 
400715, China. Electronic address: zhangql@swu.edu.cn.
(3)Key Laboratory of Cognition and Personality (SWU), Ministry of Education, 
Chongqing 400715, China; Faculty of Psychology, Southwest University, Chongqing 
400715, China. Electronic address: qiuj318@swu.edu.cn.

Perceived stress reflects the extent to which situations are appraised as 
stressful at a given point in one's life. Past brain imaging studies have 
examined activation patterns underlying the stress response, yet focal 
differences in brain structures related to perceived stress are not well 
understood, especially when considering gray matter (GM) and white matter (WM) 
structures simultaneously. In this study, voxel-based morphometry was used to 
investigate relations between GM/WM volume and perceived stress levels in a 
large young adult sample. Participants (138 men, 166 women) completed the 
Perceived Stress Scale (PSS; Cohen et al., 1983) and underwent an anatomical 
magnetic resonance imaging scan. Higher PSS scores were associated with larger 
GM volume in a cluster that included regions in the bilateral parahippocampal 
gyrus, fusiform cortex, and entorhinal cortex and smaller GM volume in a cluster 
that included regions of the right insular cortex. Higher PSS scores were also 
related to smaller WM volume in a cluster that included the body of the corpus 
callosum. This pattern of results remained significant even after controlling 
for effects of general intelligence, socioeconomic status, and depression. 
Together, findings suggest a unique structural basis for individual differences 
in perceived stress, distributed across different GM and WM regions of the 
brain.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2014.01.044
PMID: 24495811 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


384. Sci Total Environ. 2014 Apr 1;476-477:542-52. doi: 
10.1016/j.scitotenv.2014.01.056. Epub 2014 Feb 1.

Predicting daily ragweed pollen concentrations using Computational Intelligence 
techniques over two heavily polluted areas in Europe.

Csépe Z(1), Makra L(2), Voukantsis D(3), Matyasovszky I(4), Tusnády G(5), 
Karatzas K(6), Thibaudon M(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Climatology and Landscape Ecology, University of Szeged, 
HU-6701 Szeged, P.O.B. 653, Hungary. Electronic address: 
csepzol@geo.u-szeged.hu.
(2)Department of Climatology and Landscape Ecology, University of Szeged, 
HU-6701 Szeged, P.O.B. 653, Hungary. Electronic address: makra@geo.u-szeged.hu.
(3)Department of Mechanical Engineering, Informatics Systems & Applications 
Group, Aristotle University, P.O. Box 483, GR-54124 Thessaloniki, Greece. 
Electronic address: voukas@isag.meng.auth.gr.
(4)Department of Meteorology, Eötvös Loránd University, HU-1117 Budapest, 
Pázmány Péter st. 1/A, Hungary. Electronic address: matya@ludens.elte.hu.
(5)Mathematical Institute of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, HU-1364 
Budapest, P.O.B. 127, Hungary. Electronic address: tusnady.gabor@renyi.mta.hu.
(6)Department of Mechanical Engineering, Informatics Systems & Applications 
Group, Aristotle University, P.O. Box 483, GR-54124 Thessaloniki, Greece. 
Electronic address: kkara@eng.auth.gr.
(7)RNSA (Aerobiology Network of France), La Parličre, F-69610 Saint Genis 
l'Argentière, France. Electronic address: michel.thibaudon@wanadoo.fr.

Forecasting ragweed pollen concentration is a useful tool for sensitive people 
in order to prepare in time for high pollen episodes. The aim of the study is to 
use methods of Computational Intelligence (CI) (Multi-Layer Perceptron, M5P, 
REPTree, DecisionStump and MLPRegressor) for predicting daily values of Ambrosia 
pollen concentrations and alarm levels for 1-7 days ahead for Szeged (Hungary) 
and Lyon (France), respectively. Ten-year daily mean ragweed pollen data (within 
1997-2006) are considered for both cities. 10 input variables are used in the 
models including pollen level or alarm level on the given day, furthermore the 
serial number of the given day of the year within the pollen season and 
altogether 8 meteorological variables. The study has novelties as (1) daily 
alarm thresholds are firstly predicted in the aerobiological literature; (2) 
data-driven modelling methods including neural networks have never been used in 
forecasting daily Ambrosia pollen concentration; (3) algorithm J48 has never 
been used in palynological forecasts; (4) we apply a rarely used technique, 
namely factor analysis with special transformation, to detect the importance of 
the influencing variables in defining the pollen levels for 1-7 days ahead. When 
predicting pollen concentrations, for Szeged Multi-Layer Perceptron models 
deliver similar results with tree-based models 1 and 2 days ahead; while for 
Lyon only Multi-Layer Perceptron provides acceptable result. When predicting 
alarm levels, the performance of Multi-Layer Perceptron is the best for both 
cities. It is presented that the selection of the optimal method depends on 
climate, as a function of geographical location and relief. The results show 
that the more complex CI methods perform well, and their performance is 
case-specific for ≥2 days forecasting horizon. A determination coefficient of 
0.98 (Ambrosia, Szeged, one day and two days ahead) using Multi-Layer Perceptron 
ranks this model the best one in the literature.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2014.01.056
PMID: 24496027 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


385. J Med Internet Res. 2014 Feb 3;16(2):e29. doi: 10.2196/jmir.3078.

Investigating the congruence of crowdsourced information with official 
government data: the case of pediatric clinics.

Kim M(1), Jung Y, Jung D, Hur C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Business and Technology Management, Korea Advanced Institute of 
Science and Technology, Daejeon, Korea, Republic Of. minki.kim@kaist.ac.kr.

BACKGROUND: Health 2.0 is a benefit to society by helping patients acquire 
knowledge about health care by harnessing collective intelligence. However, any 
misleading information can directly affect patients' choices of hospitals and 
drugs, and potentially exacerbate their health condition.
OBJECTIVE: This study investigates the congruence between crowdsourced 
information and official government data in the health care domain and 
identifies the determinants of low congruence where it exists. In-line with 
infodemiology, we suggest measures to help the patients in the regions 
vulnerable to inaccurate health information.
METHODS: We text-mined multiple online health communities in South Korea to 
construct the data for crowdsourced information on public health services 
(173,748 messages). Kendall tau and Spearman rank order correlation coefficients 
were used to compute the differences in 2 ranking systems of health care 
quality: actual government evaluations of 779 hospitals and mining results of 
geospecific online health communities. Then we estimated the effect of 
sociodemographic characteristics on the level of congruence by using an ordinary 
least squares regression.
RESULTS: The regression results indicated that the standard deviation of married 
women's education (P=.046), population density (P=.01), number of doctors per 
pediatric clinic (P=.048), and birthrate (P=.002) have a significant effect on 
the congruence of crowdsourced data (adjusted R²=.33). Specifically, (1) the 
higher the birthrate in a given region, (2) the larger the variance in 
educational attainment, (3) the higher the population density, and (4) the 
greater the number of doctors per clinic, the more likely that crowdsourced 
information from online communities is congruent with official government data.
CONCLUSIONS: To investigate the cause of the spread of misleading health 
information in the online world, we adopted a unique approach by associating 
mining results on hospitals from geospecific online health communities with the 
sociodemographic characteristics of corresponding regions. We found that the 
congruence of crowdsourced information on health care services varied across 
regions and that these variations could be explained by geospecific demographic 
factors. This finding can be helpful to governments in reducing the potential 
risk of misleading online information and the accompanying safety issues.

DOI: 10.2196/jmir.3078
PMCID: PMC3936264
PMID: 24496094 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: None declared.


386. Ear Hear. 2014 May-Jun;35(3):295-305. doi: 10.1097/01.aud.0000441034.02052.0a.

Assessment of children with suspected auditory processing disorder: a factor 
analysis study.

Ahmmed AU(1), Ahmmed AA, Bath JR, Ferguson MA, Plack CJ, Moore DR.

Author information:
(1)1Lancashire Teaching Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, Preston, United Kingdom; 
2University of Newcastle, United Kingdom; 3NIHR National Biomedical Research, 
Nottingham, United Kingdom; 4University of Manchester, United Kingdom; 5MRC 
Institute of Hearing Research, Nottingham, United Kingdom; 6Cincinnati 
Children's Hospital, Cincinnati, Ohio, USA.

OBJECTIVES: To identify the factors that may underlie the deficits in children 
with listening difficulties, despite normal pure-tone audiograms. These children 
may have auditory processing disorder (APD), but there is no universally agreed 
consensus as to what constitutes APD. The authors therefore refer to these 
children as children with suspected APD (susAPD) and aim to clarify the role of 
attention, cognition, memory, sensorimotor processing speed, speech, and 
nonspeech auditory processing in susAPD. It was expected that a factor analysis 
would show how nonauditory and supramodal factors relate to auditory behavioral 
measures in such children with susAPD. This would facilitate greater 
understanding of the nature of listening difficulties, thus further helping with 
characterizing APD and designing multimodal test batteries to diagnose APD.
DESIGN: Factor analysis of outcomes from 110 children (68 male, 42 female; aged 
6 to 11 years) with susAPD on a widely used clinical test battery (SCAN-C) and a 
research test battery (MRC Institute of Hearing Research Multi-center Auditory 
Processing "IMAP"), that have age-based normative data. The IMAP included 
backward masking, simultaneous masking, frequency discrimination, nonverbal 
intelligence, working memory, reading, alerting attention and motor reaction 
times to auditory and visual stimuli. SCAN-C included monaural low-redundancy 
speech (auditory closure and speech in noise) and dichotic listening tests 
(competing words and competing sentences) that assess divided auditory attention 
and hence executive attention.
RESULTS: Three factors were extracted: "general auditory processing," "working 
memory and executive attention," and "processing speed and alerting attention." 
Frequency discrimination, backward masking, simultaneous masking, and monaural 
low-redundancy speech tests represented the "general auditory processing" 
factor. Dichotic listening and the IMAP cognitive tests (apart from nonverbal 
intelligence) were represented in the "working memory and executive attention" 
factor. Motor response times to cued and noncued auditory and visual stimuli 
were grouped in the "processing speed and alerting attention" factor. 
Individuals varied in their outcomes in different tests. Poor performance was 
noted in different combinations of tests from the three factors. Impairments 
solely related to the "general auditory processing" factor were not common.
CONCLUSIONS: The study identifies a general auditory processing factor in 
addition to two other cognitive factors, "working memory and executive 
attention" and "processing speed and alerting attention," to underlie the 
deficits in children with susAPD. Impaired attention, memory, and processing 
speed are known to be associated with poor literacy and numeracy skills as well 
as a number of neurodevelopmental disorders. Individuals with impairments in the 
"general auditory processing" tests along with tests from the other two 
cognitive factors may explain the co-occurrence of APD and other disorders. The 
variation in performance by individuals in the different tests noted was 
probably due to a number of reasons including heterogeneity in susAPD and 
less-than ideal test-retest reliabilities of the tests used to assess APD. 
Further research is indicated to explore additional factors, and consensus is 
needed to improve the reliability of tests or find alternative approaches to 
diagnose APD, based on the underlying factors.

DOI: 10.1097/01.aud.0000441034.02052.0a
PMID: 24496289 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


387. Ear Hear. 2014 Jul-Aug;35(4):387-95. doi: 10.1097/AUD.0000000000000023.

The effect of differential listening experience on the development of expressive 
and receptive language in children with bilateral cochlear implants.

Hess C(1), Zettler-Greeley C, Godar SP, Ellis-Weismer S, Litovsky RY.

Author information:
(1)1Waisman Center, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin, USA; 
and 2Nemours BrightStart!, Jacksonville, Florida, USA.

OBJECTIVES: Growing evidence suggests that children who are deaf and use 
cochlear implants (CIs) can communicate effectively using spoken language. 
Research has reported that age of implantation and length of experience with the 
CI play an important role in a predicting a child's linguistic development. In 
recent years, the increase in the number of children receiving bilateral CIs 
(BiCIs) has led to interest in new variables that may also influence the 
development of hearing, speech, and language abilities, such as length of 
bilateral listening experience and the length of time between the implantation 
of the two CIs. One goal of the present study was to determine how a cohort of 
children with BiCIs performed on standardized measures of language and nonverbal 
cognition. This study examined the relationship between performance on language 
and nonverbal intelligence quotient (IQ) tests and the ages at implantation of 
the first CI and second CI. This study also examined whether early bilateral 
activation is related to better language scores.
DESIGN: Children with BiCIs (n = 39; ages 4 to 9 years) were tested on two 
standardized measures, the Test of Language Development and the Leiter 
International Performance Scale-Revised, to evaluate their expressive/receptive 
language skills and nonverbal IQ/memory. Hierarchical regression analyses were 
used to evaluate whether BiCI hearing experience predicts language performance.
RESULTS: While large intersubject variability existed, on average, almost all 
the children with BiCIs scored within or above normal limits on measures of 
nonverbal cognition. Expressive and receptive language scores were highly 
variable, less likely to be above the normative mean, and did not correlate with 
Length of first CI Use, defined as length of auditory experience with one 
cochlear implant, or Length of second CI Use, defined as length of auditory 
experience with two cochlear implants.
CONCLUSIONS: All children in the present study had BiCIs. Most IQ scores were 
either at or above that found in the general population of typically hearing 
children. However, there was greater variability in their performance on a 
standardized test of expressive and receptive language. This cohort of children, 
who are mainstreamed in schools at age-appropriate grades, whose mothers' 
education is high, and whose families' socioecononomic status is high, had, as a 
group, on average, language scores within the same range as the normative sample 
of hearing children. Further research identifying the predictors that contribute 
to the high variability in both expressive and receptive language scores in 
children with BiCIs will provide useful information that can aid in clinical 
management and decision making.

DOI: 10.1097/AUD.0000000000000023
PMCID: PMC4083502
PMID: 24496290 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


388. PLoS One. 2014 Jan 31;9(1):e87961. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0087961. 
eCollection 2014.

Sexuality and gender role in autism spectrum disorder: a case control study.

Bejerot S(1), Eriksson JM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, 
Sweden.

The 'extreme male brain theory of autism' describes an extreme male pattern of 
cognitive traits defined as strong systemising abilities paired with empathising 
weaknesses in autism spectrum disorder. However, beyond these cognitive traits, 
clinical observations have suggested an ambiguous gender-typed pattern regarding 
several sexually dimorphic traits. The aim of the present study was to 
investigate if patterns of non-cognitive sexually dimorphic traits differed 
between the autism spectrum disorder and control groups. Fifty adults with 
autism spectrum disorder and intelligence within the normal range, and 53 
neurotypical controls responded to questions on gender role, self-perceived 
gender typicality and gender identity, as well as sexuality. Measures used were 
a Swedish modification of the Bem Sex Role Inventory and questions on sexuality 
and gender designed for the purpose of this study. Our results showed that one 
common gender role emerged in the autism spectrum disorder group. Masculinity 
(e.g. assertiveness, leadership and competitiveness) was weaker in the autism 
spectrum disorder group than in the controls, across men and women. 
Self-perceived gender typicality did not differ between the groups but tomboyism 
and bisexuality were overrepresented amongst women with autism spectrum 
disorder. Lower libido was reported amongst both male and female participants 
with autism spectrum disorder compared with controls. We conclude that the 
extreme male patterns of cognitive functions in the autistic brain do not seem 
to extend to gender role and sexuality. A gender-atypical pattern for these 
types of characteristics is suggested in autism spectrum disorder.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0087961
PMCID: PMC3909328
PMID: 24498228 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


389. PLoS One. 2014 Feb 3;9(2):e88202. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0088202. eCollection 
2014.

A healthy brain in a healthy body: brain network correlates of physical and 
mental fitness.

Douw L(1), Nieboer D(2), van Dijk BW(3), Stam CJ(3), Twisk JW(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Vrije Universiteit Medical Center, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands ; Department of Anatomy and Neurosciences, Vrije Universiteit 
Medical Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(2)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Vrije Universiteit Medical 
Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Clinical Neurophysiology and Magnetoencephalography Center, 
Vrije Universiteit Medical Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(4)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Vrije Universiteit Medical 
Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands ; Department of Epidemiology and 
Biostatistics, EMGO Institute for Health and Care Research, VU University 
Medical Center, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.

A healthy lifestyle is an important focus in today's society. The physical 
benefits of regular exercise are abundantly clear, but physical fitness is also 
associated with better cognitive performance. How these two factors together 
relate to characteristics of the brain is still incompletely understood. By 
applying mathematical concepts from 'network theory', insights in the 
organization and dynamics of brain functioning can be obtained. We test the 
hypothesis that neural network organization mediates the association between 
cardio respiratory fitness (i.e. VO₂ max) and cognitive functioning. A healthy 
cohort was studied (n = 219, 113 women, age range 41-44 years). Subjects 
underwent resting-state eyes-closed magneto-encephalography (MEG). Five 
artifact-free epochs were analyzed and averaged in six frequency bands 
(delta-gamma). The phase lag index (PLI) was used as a measure of functional 
connectivity between all sensors. Modularity analysis was performed, and both 
within and between-module connectivity of each sensor was calculated. Subjects 
underwent a maximum oxygen uptake (VO₂ max) measurement as an indicator of 
cardio respiratory fitness. All subjects were tested with a commonly used Dutch 
intelligence test. Intelligence quotient (IQ) was related to VO₂ max. In 
addition, VO₂ max was negatively associated with upper alpha and beta band 
modularity. Particularly increased intermodular connectivity in the beta band 
was associated with higher VO₂ max and IQ, further indicating a benefit of more 
global network integration as opposed to local connections. Within-module 
connectivity showed a spatially varied pattern of correlation, while average 
connectivity did not show significant results. Mediation analysis was not 
significant. The occurrence of less modularity in the resting-state is 
associated with better cardio respiratory fitness, while having increased 
intermodular connectivity, as opposed to within-module connections, is related 
to better physical and mental fitness.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0088202
PMCID: PMC3912221
PMID: 24498438 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have the 
following interests: This study was funded in part by Heineken BV. Co-author 
Prof. CJ Stam is a PLOS ONE Editorial Board member. This does not alter the 
authors' adherence to all the PLOS ONE policies on sharing data and materials.


390. Oman Med J. 2014 Jan;29(1):71-4. doi: 10.5001/omj.2014.16.

IQ Scores of Children with Moderate Asthma: A Comparison with Healthy Children.

Ghaffari J(1), Abbaskhanian A(2), Jalili M(3).

Author information:
(1)Allergist and Clinical Immunologist, Associate Professor of Mazandaran 
University of Medical Sciences, Sari, Iran.
(2)Pediatrics Neurologist, Assistant Professor of Mazandaran University of 
Medical Sciences, Sari, Iran; Buali Hospital, Pasdaran Blvd, Sari, Iran.
(3)Masters in Psychology, Sari, Iran.

OBJECTIVE: Intelligence quotient is an indicator of one's efficacy and many 
factors including chronic diseases may impact upon it. This study aims to 
compare the IQ of children diagnosed with moderate asthma to the IQ of healthy 
children.
METHODS: This comparative study was conducted between June 2011 and January 2012 
in an Academic Referral Clinic. In this study, 114 patients aged 6 to 13 years 
who were diagnosed with moderate asthma were compared with 90 age and sex 
matched healthy patients from their families. Wechsler intelligence scale for 
children was used by split half method to calculate the overall IQ, verbal IQ 
and practical IQ. The t-test and Chi square test were used to analyze 
quantitative variables and qualitative variables, respectively.
RESULTS: In this study, 204 children, 114 (56%) in the case group and 90 
children (44%) in the control group participated in comparing their IQs. One 
hundred and fifteen (56%) were males and 89 (44%) were females. The overall IQs 
of asthmatic patients and healthy patients were 109 and 108, respectively; the 
difference was not significant (p=0.905). Furthermore, there was no significant 
difference in the IQ scores between males and females.
CONCLUSION: Although asthma is a chronic disease and causes many respiratory 
problems, it has no negative impact on IQ.

DOI: 10.5001/omj.2014.16
PMCID: PMC3910404
PMID: 24498486


391. Pediatr Hematol Oncol. 2014 Mar;31(2):194-204. doi: 
10.3109/08880018.2013.871763. Epub 2014 Feb 5.

Neurocognitive outcome and white matter anisotropy in childhood acute 
lymphoblastic leukemia survivors treated with different protocols.

ElAlfy M(1), Ragab I, Azab I, Amin S, Abdel-Maguid M.

Author information:
(1)Oncology Unit, Pediatrics Department, Ain Shams University, Cairo, Egypt.

Neurocognitive outcome affects the quality of life of ALL survivors. This study 
is aimed to assess the prevalence of neurocognitive dysfunction by psychometric 
and imaging tools in survivors of childhood ALL, treated with 3 different 
protocols and the effect of time elapsed since the end of chemotherapy. 
Sixty-two ALL survivors aged 6-18 years and treated in the period 1997-2007 and 
60 healthy age and sex matched controls were subjected to neurocognitive testing 
using Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children, Benton visual retention (BVRT) 
and Trail Making test (TMT), followed by diffusion weighed and diffusion tensor 
MRI for calculation of fraction anisotropy (FA). Survivors underwent revision of 
protocol and type of CNS therapy. Three different protocols were used: modified 
BFM 83, BFM 90, and CCG. Survivors treated with modified CCG protocol showed a 
significant decrease in all cognitive tests compared to control (p<.05); BFM 90 
group had a significant lower IQ and longer TMT compared to both control and BFM 
83 group and no significant difference was found in results of cognitive tests 
between BFM 83 and control group. Frontal FA was lower in CCG treated group 
compared to control, BFM 90 and BFM 83 groups (p<.05); meanwhile it was 
significantly lower in BFM 90 and BFM 83 groups compared to control group. We 
concluded that patients treated with modified CCG protocol showed the worst 
neurocognitive outcome among three assessed protocols. Frontal lobe FA might be 
an early marker for predicting the neurotoxicity in childhood ALL survivors.

DOI: 10.3109/08880018.2013.871763
PMID: 24498883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


392. Dev Sci. 2014 Jul;17(4):492-505. doi: 10.1111/desc.12143. Epub 2014 Feb 5.

Acuity of the approximate number system and preschoolers' quantitative 
development.

van Marle K(1), Chu FW, Li Y, Geary DC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychological Sciences, University of Missouri, USA.

The study assessed the relations among acuity of the inherent approximate number 
system (ANS), performance on measures of symbolic quantitative knowledge, and 
mathematics achievement for a sample of 138 (64 boys) preschoolers. The Weber 
fraction (a measure of ANS acuity) and associated task accuracy were 
significantly correlated with mathematics achievement following one year of 
preschool, and predicted performance on measures of children's explicit 
knowledge of Arabic numerals, number words, and cardinal value, controlling for 
age, sex, parental education, intelligence, executive control, and preliteracy 
knowledge. The relation between ANS acuity, as measured by the Weber fraction 
and task accuracy, and mathematics achievement was fully mediated by children's 
performance on the symbolic quantitative tasks, with knowledge of cardinal value 
emerging as a particularly important mediator. The overall pattern suggests that 
ANS acuity facilitates the early learning of symbolic quantitative knowledge and 
indirectly influences mathematics achievement through this knowledge.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/desc.12143
PMID: 24498980 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


393. J Clin Exp Neuropsychol. 2014;36(2):137-43. doi: 10.1080/13803395.2013.870535. 
Epub 2014 Feb 5.

Epilepsy & IQ: the clinical utility of the Wechsler Adult Intelligence 
Scale-Fourth Edition (WAIS-IV) indices in the neuropsychological assessment of 
people with epilepsy.

Baxendale S(1), McGrath K, Thompson PJ.

Author information:
(1)a NIHR University College London Hospitals Biomedical Research Centre , 
Department of Clinical and Experimental Epilepsy, UCL Institute of Neurology , 
London , UK.

We examined Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Fourth Edition (WAIS-IV) General 
Ability Index (GAI) and Full Scale Intelligence Quotient (FSIQ) discrepancies in 
100 epilepsy patients; 44% had a significant GAI > FSIQ discrepancy. GAI-FSIQ 
discrepancies were correlated with the number of antiepileptic drugs taken and 
duration of epilepsy. Individual antiepileptic drugs differentially interfere 
with the expression of underlying intellectual ability in this group. FSIQ may 
significantly underestimate levels of general intellectual ability in people 
with epilepsy. Inaccurate representations of FSIQ due to selective impairments 
in working memory and reduced processing speed obscure the contextual 
interpretation of performance on other neuropsychological tests, and subtle 
localizing and lateralizing signs may be missed as a result.

DOI: 10.1080/13803395.2013.870535
PMID: 24499141 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


394. Eur J Med Genet. 2014 Feb;57(2-3):60-4. doi: 10.1016/j.ejmg.2014.01.006. Epub 
2014 Feb 4.

A novel microdeletion involving the 13q31.3-q32.1 region in a patient with 
normal intelligence.

Valdes-Miranda JM(1), Soto-Alvarez JR(1), Toral-Lopez J(2), González-Huerta 
L(1), Perez-Cabrera A(1), Gonzalez-Monfil G(1), Messina-Bass O(3), 
Cuevas-Covarrubias S(4).

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Genética, Hospital General de México, Dr. Balmis 148 Col 
Doctores, México D.F., Mexico.
(2)Centro Médico ISSEMYM, Ecatepec, EdoMex, Universidad Nacional Autónoma de 
México, México D.F., Mexico.
(3)Servicio de Oftalmología, Hospital General de México, México D.F., Mexico.
(4)Servicio de Genética, Hospital General de México, Dr. Balmis 148 Col 
Doctores, México D.F., Mexico; Facultad de Medicina, Universidad Nacional 
Autónoma de México, México D.F., Mexico. Electronic address: 
sergiocuevasunam@gmail.com.

Microdeletions of the long arm of chromosome 13 lead to a characteristic facial 
appearance with systemic affection; 13q deletion shows a wide phenotypic 
spectrum that varies with respect to the location and size of the deletion 
region. The main clinical features are mental retardation, growth retardation, 
craniofacial dysmorphy and various congenital defects. In the present study we 
describe the case of an adult female of Mexican origin with microcephaly, facial 
dysmorphism, short stature, hand anomalies and normal intelligence associated 
with a de novo 13q31.3-q32.1 microdeletion that involved several genes including 
the MIR17HG and the GPC5 genes.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejmg.2014.01.006
PMID: 24503149 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


395. J Prof Nurs. 2014 Jan-Feb;30(1):80-8. doi: 10.1016/j.profnurs.2012.12.012. Epub 
2014 Jan 2.

Emotional intelligence and affective intensity as life satisfaction and 
psychological well-being predictors on nursing professionals.

Montes-Berges B(1), Augusto-Landa JM(2).

Author information:
(1)Permanent lecturer, Department of Psychology, Faculty of Humanities and 
Educational Sciences, Campus de Las Lagunillas, Universidad de Jaén, Jaén, 
Spain. Electronic address: bmontes@ujaen.es.
(2)Permanent lecturer, Department of Psychology, Faculty of Humanities and 
Educational Sciences, Campus de Las Lagunillas, Universidad de Jaén, Jaén, 
Spain.

The goal of this study was to examine the relationship between perceived 
emotional intelligence (PEI), affective intensity, life satisfaction, and 
psychological well-being in a sample of nursing professionals. Studies conducted 
in nursing have shown that emotional intelligence is a skill that minimizes the 
negative stress consequences. PEI was measured by the Trait Meta-Mood Scale, 
which includes the emotional attention, clarity and repair subscales. Affective 
intensity was measured by Larsen's Affective Intensity Scale. To analyze this 
relationship, we observed the impact of PEI and affective intensity on life 
satisfaction and psychological well-being, while controlling the 
sociodemographic variables. The correlation analyses showed significant 
relationships between the subscales of these variables. Clarity showed positive 
relationships with some psychological well-being dimensions. Affective intensity 
subscales presented relationships with life quality and different subscales of 
psychological well-being. Regression analyses indicated that repair is the only 
life satisfaction predictor. Moreover, clarity, some affective intensity 
dimensions, and sociodemographic variables are the main predictors of 
psychological well-being. The results confirmed the importance of repair on life 
quality and psychological well-being. Programs to improve nursing professionals' 
PEI are needed to increase their psychological well-being and life satisfaction.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.profnurs.2012.12.012
PMID: 24503319 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


396. Arch Clin Neuropsychol. 2014 May;29(3):269-77. doi: 10.1093/arclin/act120. Epub 
2014 Feb 5.

The S-TOFHLA as a measure of functional literacy in patients with mild 
Alzheimer's disease or mild cognitive impairment.

de Oliveira MO(1), Nitrini R, Brucki SM.

Author information:
(1)Behavioral and Cognitive Neurology Unit, Hospital das Clínicas da Faculdade 
de Medicina da Universidade de São Paulo (HCFMUSP), São Paulo, SP, Brazil.

In developing countries, education levels vary dramatically, and the number of 
years of schooling does not always correlate with the true level of educational 
competency. This study was designed to verify the accuracy of the Short-Test of 
Functional Health Literacy in Adults (S-TOFHLA) in individuals with mild 
cognitive impairment (MCI) and mild Alzheimer's disease (AD), when compared with 
healthy controls (HCs), in order to assess its utility as a measure of 
functional literacy. One hundred forty-eight subjects were divided into three 
groups: HC (n = 61), MCI patients (n = 42), and AD patients (n = 45). The 
S-TOFHLA does not seem to be suitable as an instrument to measure functional 
literacy for patients with advanced cognitive impairment, but proved to be 
appropriate in both the HC group and MCI patients in numeracy and prove to be 
useful as an adjuvant to estimate IQ, reading ability, and premorbid IQ, as an 
indicator of cognitive reserve.

DOI: 10.1093/arclin/act120
PMID: 24503948 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


397. Rev Neurol. 2014 Feb 16;58(4):147-51.

[Malformations of cortical development in adult patients with epilepsy: a series 
of 79 cases].

[Article in Spanish; Abstract available in Spanish from the publisher]

González-Cuevas M, Toledo M, Santamarina E, Sueiras-Gil M, Cambrodí-Masip R, 
Sarria S, Quintana M, Alvarez-Sabín J, Salas-Puig J(1).

Author information:
(1)Hospital Universitari Vall d'Hebron, 08035 Barcelona, Espana.

INTRODUCTION: Malformations of cortical development (MCD) are an important cause 
of epilepsy, delayed psychomotor development or neurological deficits. AIM. To 
report on the long-term clinical course and differential characteristics of 
several groups of MCD in adults with epilepsy.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Our sample consisted of patients over 16 years of age with 
MCD confirmed by magnetic resonance imaging, and epilepsy. The characteristics 
of the epilepsy, presence of neurological deficits, intellectual disability, 
history of perinatal pathology and electroencephalogram recordings were 
analysed. The patients were classified into three groups (G) in accordance with 
the Barkovich classification.
RESULTS: A total of 85 patients with MCD were identified from 2630 patients with 
epilepsy and 79 of them were finally included in the sample. Mean age: 37 years, 
57% were females. Mean age at onset of the crises: 17.8 years, and 59.5% were 
medication resistant. The distribution of the cases according to the Barkovich 
classification was: G1 (alterations affecting neuronal proliferation): 59.5%; G2 
(alterations affecting migration): 25.3%; and G3 (alterations affecting cortical 
organisation): 15.2%. Focal neurological deficit was observed in 19% and 34.2% 
had an intelligence quotient < 80. On analysing by groups, G3 was found to 
display a higher percentage of focal neurological and intelligence quotient 
deficits than G1 and G2 (p < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with MCD in G3 are more likely to have neurological 
deficit, intellectual disability and better control over their crises than 
patients from G1 and G2, most of whom present refractory epilepsy.

Publisher: TITLE: Malformaciones del desarrollo cortical en pacientes adultos 
con epilepsia: serie de 79 casos.
Introduccion. Las malformaciones del desarrollo cortical (MDC) son una causa 
importante de epilepsia, retraso del desarrollo psicomotor o deficits 
neurologicos. Objetivo. Describir la evolucion clinica a largo plazo y las 
caracteristicas diferenciales de los distintos grupos de MDC en adultos con 
epilepsia. Pacientes y metodos. Pacientes mayores de 16 años con MDC confirmada 
por resonancia magnetica y epilepsia. Se analizaron las caracteristicas de la 
epilepsia, la presencia de deficits neurologicos, la discapacidad intelectual, 
los antecedentes de patologia perinatal y el electroencefalograma. Los pacientes 
se clasificaron en tres grupos (G) segun la clasificacion de Barkovich. 
Resultados. Se identificaron 85 pacientes con MDC de 2.630 pacientes con 
epilepsia, y se incluyeron 79 pacientes. Edad media: 37 años, el 57% mujeres. 
Edad media al inicio de las crisis: 17,8 años. El 59,5% era farmacorresistente. 
La distribucion de los casos segun la clasificacion de Barkovich fue: G1 
(alteraciones de la proliferacion neuronal): 59,5%; G2 (alteraciones de la 
migracion): 25,3%; y G3 (alteraciones de la organizacion cortical): 15,2%. El 
19% presentaba un deficit neurologico focal y el 34,2% tenia un cociente 
intelectual < 80. Al analizar por grupos, el G3 mostraba un mayor porcentaje de 
deficits neurologicos focales y discapacidad intelectual que el G1 y el G2 (p < 
0,05). Conclusion. Los pacientes con MDC del G3 tienen mayor probabilidad de 
tener deficit neurologico, discapacidad intelectual y mejor control de las 
crisis que los pacientes del G1 y G2, que se manifiestan, predominantemente, con 
epilepsia farmacorresistente.

PMID: 24504876 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


398. Dev Med Child Neurol. 2014 Jun;56(6):547-55. doi: 10.1111/dmcn.12393. Epub 2014 
Feb 10.

Neuroimaging and neurodevelopmental outcome of preterm infants with a 
periventricular haemorrhagic infarction located in the temporal or frontal lobe.

Soltirovska Salamon A(1), Groenendaal F, van Haastert IC, Rademaker KJ, Benders 
MJ, Koopman C, de Vries LS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neonatology, Wilhelmina Children's Hospital, University Medical 
Centre Utrecht, Utrecht, the Netherlands; Division of Paediatrics, Department of 
Neonatology, University Medical Centre Ljubljana, Ljubljana, Slovenia.

Comment in
    Dev Med Child Neurol. 2014 Jun;56(6):510-1.

AIM: The aim of the study was to compare clinical and neuroimaging 
characteristics and neurodevelopmental outcome in preterm infants with a 
periventricular haemorrhagic infarction (PVHI) located in the temporal or 
frontal periventricular white matter.
METHOD: The study was a retrospective hospital-based study of preterm infants 
with a frontal PVHI (n=21; 11 males, 10 females; mean birthweight 1527g; mean 
gestational age 30.3wks) or temporal PVHI (n=13; five males, eight females; mean 
birthweight 1205g; mean gestational age 30.2wks) admitted to the neonatal 
intensive care unit between 1990 and 2012. The clinical course, results of 
neuroimaging studies, and neurodevelopmental outcomes of preterm infants with a 
gestational age less than 34 weeks with a confirmed PVHI on early cranial 
ultrasonography and/or magnetic resonance imaging were reviewed. For assessment 
of neurodevelopmental outcome we used the Griffiths Mental Development Scales, 
the Movement Assessment Battery for Children, the Gross Motor Function 
Classification System, the Wechsler Preschool and Primary Scale of Intelligence, 
the Child Behavior Checklist, and ophthalmological assessment. An unfavourable 
neurodevelopmental outcome was defined as moderately or severely atypical 
neurological examination during the last visit: presence of cerebral palsy, 
epilepsy, a hearing or visual impairment, and/or atypical cognitive development 
(Griffiths Mental Development Scales developmental quotient or Wechsler 
Preschool and Primary Scale of Intelligence <85).
RESULTS: Unfavourable outcome was observed in 12 out of 13 children with a 
temporal PVHI compared with six out of 21 children with a frontal PVHI 
(p=0.002). Only one of the included infants with a PVHI in the temporal white 
matter developed cerebral palsy, which was due to a parietal PVHI in the 
contralateral hemisphere. Cognitive impairment was noted in seven infants with a 
frontal PVHI and five with a temporal PVHI. There were more infants with a 
temporal PVHI who developed visual impairment (n=5) or behavioural problems 
(n=7) compared with those with a frontal PVHI (visual impairment (n=2), 
behavioural problems (n=3).
INTERPRETATION: PVHI located in the temporal or frontal lobe is almost 
invariably related to a typical motor outcome, but carries a risk of cognitive, 
behavioural, and visual problems, especially in infants with a PVHI located in 
the temporal lobe.

© 2014 Mac Keith Press.

DOI: 10.1111/dmcn.12393
PMID: 24506484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


399. J Child Adolesc Psychopharmacol. 2014 Aug;24(6):347-53. doi: 
10.1089/cap.2013.0073. Epub 2014 Feb 7.

Psychotropic medication characteristics for special education students with 
emotional and/or behavioral disorders.

Mattison RE(1), Rundberg-Rivera V, Michel C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Stony Brook University , Stony Brook, New York.

OBJECTIVE: Characteristics of psychotropic medication use have rarely been 
investigated for special education students with emotional and/or behavioral 
disorders.
METHODS: The prevalence of psychotropic medication use was obtained at the 
beginning of a school year for a cohort of 77 students attending a 
self-contained middle school for special education students with emotional 
and/or behavioral problems, in the suburban New York City area. Demographics, 
intelligence quotient (IQ) and achievement testing, and objective measures of 
both psychopathology and school functioning were gathered.
RESULTS: Overall, psychotropic medication was used in 77.9% of the participants; 
52.0% received more than one medication. The most commonly prescribed medicines 
were atypical antipsychotics (49.4%) followed by attention-deficit/hyperactivity 
disorder (ADHD) medications (48.0%). Usage patterns for specific diagnostic 
presentations were examined, and appeared consistent with current clinical 
practice. Persistent elevated psychopathology appeared frequently in students on 
medication.
CONCLUSIONS: Psychotropic medication use in this unique but important sample of 
special education students appeared generally consistent with recent 
psychotropic prevalence research. The need for collaboration between special 
education teachers and prescribing physicians, in order to achieve optimal 
medication adjustment for these students, was highlighted.

DOI: 10.1089/cap.2013.0073
PMCID: PMC4137357
PMID: 24506802 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


400. J Pediatr. 2014 May;164(5):1165-1170.e6. doi: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2013.12.037. Epub 
2014 Feb 6.

Validation of a rapid neurodevelopmental assessment tool for 5 to 9 year-old 
children in Bangladesh.

Khan NZ(1), Muslima H(1), El Arifeen S(2), McConachie H(3), Shilpi AB(1), 
Ferdous S(4), Darmstadt GL(5).

Author information:
(1)Child Development Center, Department of Pediatric Neuroscience, Dhaka Shishu 
(Children's) Hospital, Sher-e-Bangla Nagar, Dhaka, Bangladesh.
(2)Center for Child and Adolescent Health, International Center for Diarrheal 
Disease Research, Bangladesh (ICDDR,B), Mohakhali, Dhaka, Bangladesh.
(3)Department of Child Clinical Psychology, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon 
Tyne, United Kingdom.
(4)Bangladesh Protibondhi Foundation, Mirpur, Dhaka, Bangladesh.
(5)Global Development, Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, Seattle, WA. Electronic 
address: gary.darmstadt@gatesfoundation.org.

OBJECTIVE: To validate a rapid neurodevelopmental assessment tool for use by 
child care professionals to determine neurodevelopmental impairments (NDIs) in 
children ages 5-9 years (61-108 months) in Bangladesh.
STUDY DESIGN: In a convenience sample of community children (n = 18), interrater 
reliability was determined between 6 testers. Validity was determined in 121 
children by simultaneous administration of a test of adaptive behavior (AB) (ie, 
the Independent Behavior Assessment Scale, or Gold Standard I) and IQ tests 
(Wechsler Preschool and Primary Scales of Intelligence or the Wechsler 
Intelligence Scales for Children, or Gold Standard II) by child psychologists.
RESULTS: Interrater reliability was excellent (kappa = 1.00). Significantly 
lower scores were obtained on AB and IQ tests in those identified with "any (≥1) 
NDI" and most specific NDIs. Sensitivity and specificity for "any NDI" with (a) 
"significant difficulties" (defined as AB z-scores < -2 SD and/or IQ < 70) or 
(b) "mild difficulties included" (AB z scores < -1 SD and/or IQ < 85) were 84% 
and 57%; and 83% and 70%, respectively.
CONCLUSION: The rapid neurodevelopmental assessment tool shows promise as a tool 
for use by a range of professionals for identifying NDIs in children of primary 
school age. Further refinement for identifying specific impairments is needed.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2013.12.037
PMID: 24507864 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


401. J Pediatr. 2014 Apr;164(4):876-881.e4. doi: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2013.12.010. Epub 
2014 Feb 6.

Neuropsychological outcome in patients with childhood craniopharyngioma and 
hypothalamic involvement.

Özyurt J(1), Thiel CM(2), Lorenzen A(3), Gebhardt U(4), Calaminus G(5), 
Warmuth-Metz M(6), Müller HL(4).

Author information:
(1)Biological Psychology Laboratory, Department of Psychology, Carl von 
Ossietzky University, Oldenburg, Germany.
(2)Biological Psychology Laboratory, Department of Psychology, Carl von 
Ossietzky University, Oldenburg, Germany; Research Center for Neurosensory 
Science, Carl von Ossietzky University, Oldenburg, Germany.
(3)Biological Psychology Laboratory, Department of Psychology, Carl von 
Ossietzky University, Oldenburg, Germany; Center for Integrative Psychiatry, 
Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, Christian 
Albrechts University School of Medicine, Kiel, Germany.
(4)Department of Pediatrics and Pediatric Hematology and Oncology, Center for 
Child and Adolescent Medicine, Klinikum Oldenburg, Oldenburg, Germany.
(5)Department of Pediatric Hematology and Oncology, Münster University Hospital, 
Münster, Germany.
(6)Department of Neuroradiology, Würzburg University Hospital, Würzburg, 
Germany.

OBJECTIVE: To test memory performance and executive functions in patients with 
childhood craniopharyngioma and hypothalamic involvement.
STUDY DESIGN: Using standardized neuropsychological tests, we compared cognitive 
performance in a group of 15 patients with childhood craniopharyngioma and known 
hypothalamic involvement and a group of 24 age- and intelligence-matched control 
subjects. In addition, we compared individual patients' results with normative 
data to detect abnormal performance in the clinically relevant range. Within the 
patient group, we further tested whether the grade of hypothalamic involvement 
had an impact on cognitive performance and quality of life.
RESULTS: Relative to healthy controls, the patients demonstrated significantly 
lower performance scores in tests of memory and executive functioning. On the 
individual performance level, delayed recall performance was severely impaired 
in one-third of the patients. Compared with patients with low-grade hypothalamic 
involvement, those with high-grade hypothalamic involvement showed worse 
performance in executive functions and reduced functional capabilities for daily 
life actions, indicating lower quality of life.
CONCLUSION: Our findings demonstrate that hypothalamic involvement is related to 
impairments in memory and executive functioning in patients with childhood 
craniopharyngioma and indicate that a high grade of hypothalamic involvement is 
related to worse outcomes.

Copyright © 2014 Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2013.12.010
PMID: 24507865 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


402. Ann Epidemiol. 2014 Apr;24(4):319-23. doi: 10.1016/j.annepidem.2014.01.001. Epub 
2014 Jan 16.

A consideration of group work processes in modern epidemiology.

Mattingly K(1), Ponsonby AL(2).

Author information:
(1)slowCapital Pty Ltd, Melbourne, Australia.
(2)Population Health, Murdoch Childrens Research Institute, Royal Children's 
Hospital Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria, Australia; Department of Paediatrics, 
University of Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria, Australia. Electronic address: 
anne-louise.ponsonby@mcri.edu.au.

PURPOSE: In the field of epidemiology, much attention has been given to the 
reduction of random or systematic errors in study design, analysis, and 
reporting. This article reviews relevant literature on group work processes. The 
review orients attention toward optimizing group work processes to enhance group 
decision making and optimize the conduct of epidemiologic work in the era of 
team science.
METHODS: The review contrasts interactive open group work with group aggregate 
work. We define the latter as occurring without member to member communication. 
The impacts of group characteristics on process issues are examined.
RESULTS: Group characteristics such as purpose, modality, size, and member 
incentives are shown to influence the likely optimal group structure for varying 
tasks. Open group work allows rapid communication and interactive feedback as 
well as the emergence of a collective intelligence above that of the individual 
members. However, productivity may be limited by large open group size and the 
multiple dyads of communication, limiting cognitive diversity and human resource 
capital. Furthermore, group-level biases and bias may be introduced within the 
group. Little quantitative work on these issues has been conducted in the 
epidemiologic work setting, but recent experimental research in other areas of 
science and management indicates that structured protocols to support dynamic 
group work can improve group decisions. The merit of often highly accurate group 
aggregate approaches, with parallel independent individual inputs such as crowd 
sourcing is becoming increasingly recognized. We outline several examples in 
recent medical research.
CONCLUSIONS: We outline principles that should be explicitly considered when 
setting up new work groups in epidemiology and recommend that further work on 
these issues be conducted.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.annepidem.2014.01.001
PMID: 24507953 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


403. Neurobiol Aging. 2014 Jun;35(6):1513.e25-33. doi: 
10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2014.01.006. Epub 2014 Jan 8.

Alzheimer's disease susceptibility genes APOE and TOMM40, and brain white matter 
integrity in the Lothian Birth Cohort 1936.

Lyall DM(1), Harris SE(2), Bastin ME(3), Muñoz Maniega S(3), Murray C(4), Lutz 
MW(5), Saunders AM(6), Roses AD(7), Valdés Hernández Mdel C(3), Royle NA(3), 
Starr JM(8), Porteous DJ(2), Wardlaw JM(3), Deary IJ(9).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, University of 
Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK; Brain Research Imaging Centre, Division of 
Neuroimaging Sciences, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK; Department of 
Psychology, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK; Medical Genetics Section, 
University of Edinburgh Centre for Genomics and Experimental Medicine, Western 
General Hospital, Edinburgh, UK; MRC Institute of Genetics and Molecular 
Medicine, Western General Hospital, Edinburgh, UK.
(2)Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, University of 
Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK; Medical Genetics Section, University of Edinburgh 
Centre for Genomics and Experimental Medicine, Western General Hospital, 
Edinburgh, UK; MRC Institute of Genetics and Molecular Medicine, Western General 
Hospital, Edinburgh, UK.
(3)Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, University of 
Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK; Brain Research Imaging Centre, Division of 
Neuroimaging Sciences, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK; Scottish Imaging 
Network, A Platform for Scientific Excellence (SINAPSE) Collaboration, 
Department of Neuroimaging Sciences, The University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.
(4)Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, University of 
Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK; Department of Psychology, University of Edinburgh, 
Edinburgh, UK.
(5)Department of Neurology, Joseph & Kathleen Bryan Alzheimer's Disease Research 
Center, Durham, NC, USA; Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC, USA.
(6)Department of Neurology, Joseph & Kathleen Bryan Alzheimer's Disease Research 
Center, Durham, NC, USA.
(7)Department of Neurology, Joseph & Kathleen Bryan Alzheimer's Disease Research 
Center, Durham, NC, USA; Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC, USA; 
Zinfandel Pharmaceuticals, Inc, Durham, NC, USA.
(8)Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, University of 
Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK; Alzheimer Scotland Dementia Research Centre, 
University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.
(9)Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, University of 
Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK; Department of Psychology, University of Edinburgh, 
Edinburgh, UK. Electronic address: i.deary@ed.ac.uk.

Apolipoprotein E (APOE) ε genotype has previously been significantly associated 
with cognitive, brain imaging, and Alzheimer's disease-related phenotypes (e.g., 
age of onset). In the TOMM40 gene, the rs10524523 ("523") variable length poly-T 
repeat polymorphism has more recently been associated with similar ph/enotypes, 
although the allelic directions of these associations have varied between 
initial reports. Using diffusion magnetic resonance imaging tractography, the 
present study aimed to investigate whether there are independent effects of 
apolipoprotein E (APOE) and TOMM40 genotypes on human brain white matter 
integrity in a community-dwelling sample of older adults, the Lothian Birth 
Cohort 1936 (mean age = 72.70 years, standard deviation = 0.74, N approximately 
= 640-650; for most analyses). Some nominally significant effects were observed 
(i.e., covariate-adjusted differences between genotype groups at p < 0.05). For 
APOE, deleterious effects of ε4 "risk" allele presence (vs. absence) were found 
in the right ventral cingulum and left inferior longitudinal fasciculus. To test 
for biologically independent effects of the TOMM40 523 repeat, participants were 
stratified into APOE genotype subgroups, so that any significant effects could 
not be attributed to APOE variation. In participants with the APOE ε3/ε4 
genotype, effects of TOMM40 523 status were found in the left uncinate 
fasciculus, left rostral cingulum, left ventral cingulum, and a general factor 
of white matter integrity. In all 4 of these tractography measures, carriers of 
the TOMM40 523 "short" allele showed lower white matter integrity when compared 
with carriers of the "long" and "very-long" alleles. Most of these effects 
survived correction for childhood intelligence test scores and vascular disease 
history, though only the effect of TOMM40 523 on the left ventral cingulum 
integrity survived correction for false discovery rate. The effects of APOE in 
this older population are more specific and restricted compared with those 
reported in previous studies, and the effects of TOMM40 on white matter 
integrity appear to be novel, although replication is required in large 
independent samples.

Copyright © 2014 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2014.01.006
PMCID: PMC3969262
PMID: 24508314 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


404. Comput Biol Med. 2014 Apr;47:13-9. doi: 10.1016/j.compbiomed.2013.12.012. Epub 
2014 Jan 15.

Prediction of survival of ICU patients using computational intelligence.

Hsieh YZ(1), Su MC(2), Wang CH(3), Wang PC(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Computer Science & Information Engineering, National Central 
University, Taiwan.
(2)Department of Computer Science & Information Engineering, National Central 
University, Taiwan. Electronic address: muchun@csie.ncu.edu.tw.
(3)Medical Intensive Care Unit, Cathay General Hospital, Taiwan.
(4)Quality Management Center, Cathay General Hospital, Taiwan.

This paper presents a computational-intelligence-based model to predict the 
survival rate of critically ill patients who were admitted to an intensive care 
unit (ICU). The prediction input variables were based on the first 24 h 
admission physiological data of ICU patients to forecast whether the final 
outcome was survival or not. The prediction model was based on a particle swarm 
optimization (PSO)-based Fuzzy Hyper-Rectangular Composite Neural Network 
(PFHRCNN) that integrates three computational intelligence tools including 
hyper-rectangular composite neural networks, fuzzy systems and PSO. It could 
help doctors to make appropriate treatment decisions without excessive 
laboratory tests. The performance of the proposed prediction model was evaluated 
on the data set collected from 300 ICU patients in the Cathy General Hospital in 
2012. There were 10 input variables in total for the prediction model. Nine of 
these variables (e.g. systolic arterial blood pressures, systolic non-invasive 
blood pressures, respiratory rate, heart rate, and body temperature) were 
routinely available for 24 h in ICU and the last variable is patient's age. The 
proposed model could achieve a 96% and 86% accuracy rate for the training data 
and testing data, respectively.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.compbiomed.2013.12.012
PMID: 24508564 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


405. J Biomed Inform. 2014 Jun;49:45-52. doi: 10.1016/j.jbi.2014.01.010. Epub 2014 
Feb 6.

Computer-aided detection of breast cancer on mammograms: a swarm intelligence 
optimized wavelet neural network approach.

Dheeba J(1), Albert Singh N(2), Tamil Selvi S(3).

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Computer Science and Engineering, Noorul Islam Centre for Higher 
Education, Kumaracoil, Kanyakumari District, Thuckalay, Tamil Nadu 629 180, 
India. Electronic address: deeps_3u4@yahoo.com.
(2)BSNL Nagercoil, India. Electronic address: mailalbertsingh@yahoo.co.in.
(3)Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering, National Engineering 
College, Kovilpatti, India. Electronic address: tamilgopal2004@yahoo.co.in.

Breast cancer is the second leading cause of cancer death in women. Accurate 
early detection can effectively reduce the mortality rate caused by breast 
cancer. Masses and microcalcification clusters are an important early signs of 
breast cancer. However, it is often difficult to distinguish abnormalities from 
normal breast tissues because of their subtle appearance and ambiguous margins. 
Computer aided diagnosis (CAD) helps the radiologist in detecting the 
abnormalities in an efficient way. This paper investigates a new classification 
approach for detection of breast abnormalities in digital mammograms using 
Particle Swarm Optimized Wavelet Neural Network (PSOWNN). The proposed 
abnormality detection algorithm is based on extracting Laws Texture Energy 
Measures from the mammograms and classifying the suspicious regions by applying 
a pattern classifier. The method is applied to real clinical database of 216 
mammograms collected from mammogram screening centers. The detection performance 
of the CAD system is analyzed using Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) 
curve. This curve indicates the trade-offs between sensitivity and specificity 
that is available from a diagnostic system, and thus describes the inherent 
discrimination capacity of the proposed system. The result shows that the area 
under the ROC curve of the proposed algorithm is 0.96853 with a sensitivity 
94.167% of and specificity of 92.105%.

Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbi.2014.01.010
PMID: 24509074 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


406. Ann Dyslexia. 2014 Apr;64(1):91-119. doi: 10.1007/s11881-013-0088-6. Epub 2014 
Feb 8.

An exploratory factor analysis of the cognitive functioning of first-year 
bachelor students with dyslexia.

Callens M(1), Tops W, Stevens M, Brysbaert M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Ghent, Henri Dunantlaan 
2, 9000, Gent, Belgium, maaike.callens@ugent.be.

An increasing number of students with dyslexia register in higher education. As 
a consequence, information on their pattern of strengths and weaknesses is 
essential to construct adequate assessment and diagnostic protocols. In a sample 
of 100 first-year bachelor students with dyslexia and 100 control students, a 
large pool of cognitive skills were tested using a variety of tests. When we 
applied an exploratory factor analysis to scores, a model with ten factors 
fitted the data best. Effect sizes were used to express the processing costs of 
students with dyslexia. The factors related to reading, spelling, flashed 
orthography, phonology, naming, math, and reading fluency resulted in large 
effect sizes. A factor combining all measures for crystallized IQ had a medium 
effect size. The subtests for fluid intelligence were divided in two separate 
constructs. Relationships between all subtest scores are visualized and 
interpreted in a general theoretical and practical framework.

DOI: 10.1007/s11881-013-0088-6
PMID: 24510507 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


407. Emotion. 2014 Apr;14(2):227-34. doi: 10.1037/a0035490. Epub 2014 Feb 10.

Academic and emotional functioning in middle school: the role of implicit 
theories.

Romero C(1), Master A(2), Paunesku D(1), Dweck CS(1), Gross JJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Psychology Department, Stanford University.
(2)Institute for Learning and Brain Sciences, University of Washington.

Adolescents face many academic and emotional challenges in middle school, but 
notable differences are evident in how well they adapt. What predicts 
adolescents' academic and emotional outcomes during this period? One important 
factor might be adolescents' implicit theories about whether intelligence and 
emotions can change. The current study examines how these theories affect 
academic and emotional outcomes. One hundred fifteen students completed surveys 
throughout middle school, and their grades and course selections were obtained 
from school records. Students who believed that intelligence could be developed 
earned higher grades and were more likely to move to advanced math courses over 
time. Students who believed that emotions could be controlled reported fewer 
depressive symptoms and, if they began middle school with lower well-being, were 
more likely to feel better over time. These findings illustrate the power of 
adolescents' implicit theories, suggesting exciting new pathways for 
intervention.

DOI: 10.1037/a0035490
PMID: 24512251 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


408. J Clin Oncol. 2014 Jun 10;32(17):1760-8. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2013.52.3290. Epub 
2014 Feb 10.

Impact of craniospinal dose, boost volume, and neurologic complications on 
intellectual outcome in patients with medulloblastoma.

Moxon-Emre I(1), Bouffet E(1), Taylor MD(1), Laperriere N(1), Scantlebury N(1), 
Law N(1), Spiegler BJ(1), Malkin D(1), Janzen L(1), Mabbott D(2).

Author information:
(1)Iska Moxon-Emre, Eric Bouffet, Michael D. Taylor, Nadia Scantlebury, Nicole 
Law, Brenda J. Spiegler, David Malkin, Laura Janzen, and Donald Mabbott, 
Hospital for Sick Children; Iska Moxon-Emre, Michael D. Taylor, Normand 
Laperriere, Brenda J. Spiegler, David Malkin, and Laura Janzen, University of 
Toronto; and Normand Laperriere, Ontario Cancer Institute, Princess Margaret 
Hospital, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(2)Iska Moxon-Emre, Eric Bouffet, Michael D. Taylor, Nadia Scantlebury, Nicole 
Law, Brenda J. Spiegler, David Malkin, Laura Janzen, and Donald Mabbott, 
Hospital for Sick Children; Iska Moxon-Emre, Michael D. Taylor, Normand 
Laperriere, Brenda J. Spiegler, David Malkin, and Laura Janzen, University of 
Toronto; and Normand Laperriere, Ontario Cancer Institute, Princess Margaret 
Hospital, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. donald.mabbott@sickkids.ca.

Comment in
    J Clin Oncol. 2014 Jun 10;32(17):1749-50.

PURPOSE: To examine the impact of radiation (ie, craniospinal irradiation [CSR] 
dose and boost volume) and complications (ie, hydrocephalus and other neurologic 
complications, including mutism) on patterns of change in intellectual 
functioning in medulloblastoma survivors.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We conducted a retrospective review of 113 patients 
treated for medulloblastoma between 1983 and 2011 who were seen for 
neuropsychological assessment, including longitudinal follow-up of intellectual 
function. Patients were treated with either standard-dose CSR with a posterior 
fossa (PF) boost (n=51), standard-dose CSR plus tumor bed (TB) boost (n=9), 
reduced-dose CSR plus PF boost (n=28), or reduced-dose CSR plus TB boost (n=23), 
with or without chemotherapy. A subset of patients developed hydrocephalus that 
required cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) diversion (n=54) and/or other neurologic 
complications (n=40), more than half of which were postoperative mutism (n=25). 
Growth curve analysis was used to determine stability or change in intelligence 
scores over time.
RESULTS: Patients treated with reduced-dose CSR plus TB boost showed stable 
intellectual trajectories, whereas patients treated with higher doses and larger 
boost volumes experienced intellectual declines. Presence of complications was 
associated with worse intellectual outcome; however, hydrocephalus requiring CSF 
diversion and mutism differed in their pattern of decline.
CONCLUSION: These results improve our understanding of factors that impair 
intellectual outcome in patients treated for medulloblastoma. Lower doses of CSR 
and smaller boost volumes seem to mitigate intellectual decline. Our findings 
validate the use of TB boost and suggest PF boost should be reconsidered.

© 2014 by American Society of Clinical Oncology.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2013.52.3290
PMID: 24516024 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


409. Biomed Res Int. 2014;2014:840547. doi: 10.1155/2014/840547. Epub 2014 Jan 2.

Pb neurotoxicity: neuropsychological effects of lead toxicity.

Mason LH(1), Harp JP(1), Han DY(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Kentucky College of Medicine, 740 S. 
Limestone, Lexington, KY 40536, USA ; Department of Psychology, University of 
Kentucky College of Arts and Sciences, 106b Kastle Hall, Lexington, KY 40506, 
USA.
(2)Department of Neurology, University of Kentucky College of Medicine, 740 S. 
Limestone, Lexington, KY 40536, USA.

Neurotoxicity is a term used to describe neurophysiological changes caused by 
exposure to toxic agents. Such exposure can result in neurocognitive symptoms 
and/or psychiatric disturbances. Common toxic agents include heavy metals, 
drugs, organophosphates, bacterial, and animal neurotoxins. Among heavy metal 
exposures, lead exposure is one of the most common exposures that can lead to 
significant neuropsychological and functional decline in humans. In this review, 
neurotoxic lead exposure's pathophysiology, etiology, and epidemiology are 
explored. In addition, commonly associated neuropsychological difficulties in 
intelligence, memory, executive functioning, attention, processing speed, 
language, visuospatial skills, motor skills, and affect/mood are explored.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/840547
PMCID: PMC3909981
PMID: 24516855 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


410. Eur J Hum Genet. 2014 Oct;22(10):1165-71. doi: 10.1038/ejhg.2014.4. Epub 2014 
Feb 12.

Homozygous microdeletion of exon 5 in ZNF277 in a girl with specific language 
impairment.

Ceroni F(1), Simpson NH(2), Francks C(3), Baird G(4), Conti-Ramsden G(5), Clark 
A(6), Bolton PF(7), Hennessy ER(8), Donnelly P(2), Bentley DR(9), Martin H(2); 
IMGSAC; SLI Consortium; WGS500 Consortium; Parr J(10), Pagnamenta AT(11), 
Maestrini E(1), Bacchelli E(1), Fisher SE(3), Newbury DF(2).

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Farmacia e Biotecnologie, University of Bologna, Bologna, 
Italy.
(2)Wellcome Trust Centre for Human Genetics, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(3)1] Max Planck Institute for Psycholinguistics, Nijmegen, Netherlands [2] 
Donders Institute for Brain, Cognition & Behaviour, Nijmegen, Netherlands.
(4)Guy's & St Thomas NHS Foundation Trust, Newcomen Children's Neurosciences 
Centre, St Thomas' Hospital, London, UK.
(5)School of Psychological Sciences, The University of Manchester, Manchester, 
UK.
(6)Speech and Hearing Sciences, Queen Margaret University, Edinburgh, UK.
(7)Departments of Child & Adolescent Psychiatry & Social Genetic & Developmental 
Psychiatry Centre, Institute of Psychiatry, Kings College London, London, UK.
(8)University Child Health and DMDE, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, UK.
(9)Illumina Cambridge Ltd., Chesterford Research Park, Little Chesterford, 
Essex, UK.
(10)Institute of Neuroscience and Health and Society, Newcastle University, 
Newcastle, UK.
(11)1] Wellcome Trust Centre for Human Genetics, University of Oxford, Oxford, 
UK [2] NIHR Biomedical Research Centre, Oxford and Wellcome Trust Centre for 
Human Genetics, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.

Comment in
    Eur J Hum Genet. 2015 Sep;23(9):1113.
    Eur J Hum Genet. 2015 Sep;23(9):1113-5.

Specific language impairment (SLI), an unexpected failure to develop appropriate 
language skills despite adequate non-verbal intelligence, is a heterogeneous 
multifactorial disorder with a complex genetic basis. We identified a homozygous 
microdeletion of 21,379 bp in the ZNF277 gene (NM_021994.2), encompassing exon 
5, in an individual with severe receptive and expressive language impairment. 
The microdeletion was not found in the proband's affected sister or her brother 
who had mild language impairment. However, it was inherited from both parents, 
each of whom carries a heterozygous microdeletion and has a history of language 
problems. The microdeletion falls within the AUTS1 locus, a region linked to 
autistic spectrum disorders (ASDs). Moreover, ZNF277 is adjacent to the DOCK4 
and IMMP2L genes, which have been implicated in ASD. We screened for the 
presence of ZNF277 microdeletions in cohorts of children with SLI or ASD and 
panels of control subjects. ZNF277 microdeletions were at an increased allelic 
frequency in SLI probands (1.1%) compared with both ASD family members (0.3%) 
and independent controls (0.4%). We performed quantitative RT-PCR analyses of 
the expression of IMMP2L, DOCK4 and ZNF277 in individuals carrying either an 
IMMP2L_DOCK4 microdeletion or a ZNF277 microdeletion. Although ZNF277 
microdeletions reduce the expression of ZNF277, they do not alter the levels of 
DOCK4 or IMMP2L transcripts. Conversely, IMMP2L_DOCK4 microdeletions do not 
affect the expression levels of ZNF277. We postulate that ZNF277 microdeletions 
may contribute to the risk of language impairments in a manner that is 
independent of the autism risk loci previously described in this region.

DOI: 10.1038/ejhg.2014.4
PMCID: PMC4169542
PMID: 24518835 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


411. J Hepatobiliary Pancreat Sci. 2014 Apr;21(4):235-8. doi: 10.1002/jhbp.81. Epub 
2014 Feb 12.

Volume analyzer SYNAPSE VINCENT for liver analysis.

Ohshima S(1).

Author information:
(1)IT Business Solution Headquarters, Fujifilm Medical Co., Ltd, Fujifilm 
Nishiazabu Building, 26-30 Nishiazabu 2-Chome, Minato-ku, Tokyo, 106-0031, 
Japan. sohshima@fms.fujifilm.co.jp.

In recent years, there has been an active movement to ensure the greater safety 
of actual surgeries, by simulating it preoperatively with the use of 
three-dimensional image visualization technologies. Along with this movement, 
the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare has named "Image-supported navigation 
in hepatectomy" as part of advanced medical techniques. This method aims to 
improve the safety during a surgery by calculating the volume of the liver 
dominated by each blood vessel or simulating, prior to surgery, the volume of 
resection zone or the remaining liver volume. These calculations and simulations 
are carried out using the three-dimensional images produced by extractions of 
the liver, vascular and tumor regions from the computed tomography images, which 
were collected using the tomography apparatus prior to hepatectomy. In order to 
facilitate the achievement of such preoperative simulations, the volume analyzer 
SYNAPSE VINCENT (VINCENT, hereafter) by Fujifilm, in its Liver Analysis 
Application, comes equipped with unique features. This paper will introduce the 
technologies behind those unique features and provide a direction for future 
research and developments.

© 2014 Japanese Society of Hepato-Biliary-Pancreatic Surgery.

DOI: 10.1002/jhbp.81
PMID: 24520049 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


412. Genes Brain Behav. 2014 Apr;13(4):385-93. doi: 10.1111/gbb.12122. Epub 2014 Mar 
11.

Symbolic sequence learning is associated with cognitive-affective profiles in 
female FMR1 premutation carriers.

Kraan CM(1), Hocking DR, Bradshaw JL, Georgiou-Karistianis N, Metcalfe SA, 
Archibald AD, Fielding J, Trollor J, Cohen J, Cornish KM.

Author information:
(1)School of Psychological Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, Nursing and Health 
Sciences, Monash University.

This study examines implicit sequence learning impairments that may indicate 
at-risk cerebellar profiles proposed to underlie some aspects of subtle 
cognitive and affective dysfunctions found among female fragile X mental 
retardation 1 (FMR1) premutation (PM)-carriers. A total of 34 female PM-carriers 
and 33 age- and intelligence-matched controls completed an implicit symbolically 
primed serial reaction time task (SRTT) previously shown to be sensitive to 
cerebellar involvement. Implicit learning scores indicated a preservation of 
learning in both groups; however, PM-carriers demonstrated poorer learning 
through significantly elevated response latencies overall and at each specific 
block within the symbolic SRTT. Group comparisons also revealed a core deficit 
in response inhibition, alongside elevated inattentive symptoms in female 
PM-carriers. Finally, strong and significant associations were observed between 
poor symbolic SRTT performance and executive, visuospatial and affective 
deficits in the PM-carrier group. These associations remained strong even after 
controlling motor speed, and were not observed in age- and intelligence 
quotient-matched participants. The findings implicate cerebellar non-motor 
networks subserving the implicit sequencing of responses in cognitive-affective 
phenotypes previously observed in female PM-carriers. We contend that symbolic 
SRTT performance may offer clinical utility in future pharmaceutical 
interventions in female PM-carriers.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons Ltd and International Behavioural and Neural Genetics 
Society.

DOI: 10.1111/gbb.12122
PMID: 24521091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


413. Am J Clin Nutr. 2014 May;99(5):1026-32. doi: 10.3945/ajcn.113.079624. Epub 2014 
Feb 12.

Dietary lipids are differentially associated with hippocampal-dependent 
relational memory in prepubescent children.

Baym CL(1), Khan NA, Monti JM, Raine LB, Drollette ES, Moore RD, Scudder MR, 
Kramer AF, Hillman CH, Cohen NJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology (CLB, JMM, AFK, CHH, and NJC), the Beckman Institute 
for Advanced Science and Technology (CLB, JMM, AFK, CHH, and NJC), the 
Department of Kinesiology and Community Health (NAK, LBR, ESD, RDM, MRS, AFK, 
and CHH), and the Center for Nutrition, Learning, and Memory (AFK, CHH, and 
NJC), Neuroscience Program (AFK, CHH, and NJC), University of Illinois, Urbana, 
IL.

Comment in
    Am J Clin Nutr. 2014 May;99(5):971-2.

BACKGROUND: Studies in rodents and older humans have shown that the 
hippocampus-a brain structure critical to relational/associative memory-has 
remarkable plasticity as a result of lifestyle factors (eg, exercise). However, 
the effect of dietary intake on hippocampal-dependent memory during childhood 
has remained unexamined.
OBJECTIVE: We investigated the cross-sectional relation of dietary components 
characteristic of the Western diet, including saturated fatty acids (SFAs), 
omega-3 (n-3) fatty acids, and refined sugar, with hippocampal-dependent 
relational memory in prepubescent children.
DESIGN: Participants aged 7-9 y (n = 52) reported their dietary intake by using 
the Youth-Adolescent Food-Frequency Questionnaire and completed memory tasks 
designed to assess relational (hippocampal-dependent) and item 
(hippocampal-independent) memory. Performance on the memory tasks was assessed 
with both direct (accuracy) and indirect (eye movement) measures.
RESULTS: Partial correlations adjusted for body mass index showed a positive 
relation between relational memory accuracy and intake of omega-3 fatty acids 
and a negative relation of both relational and item memory accuracy with intake 
of SFAs. Potential confounding factors of age, sex, intelligence quotient, 
socioeconomic status, pubertal timing, and aerobic fitness (maximal oxygen 
volume) were not significantly related to any of the dietary intake measures. 
Eye movement measures of relational memory (preferential viewing to the target 
stimulus) showed a negative relation with intake of added sugar.
CONCLUSIONS: SFA intake was negatively associated with both forms of memory, 
whereas omega-3 fatty acid intake was selectively positively associated with 
hippocampal-dependent relational memory. These findings are among the first to 
show a link between habitual dietary intake and cognitive health as pertaining 
to hippocampal function in childhood. The Fitness Improves Thinking Kids 
(FITKids) and FITKids2 trials were registered at www.clinicaltrials.gov as 
NCT01334359 and NCT01619826, respectively.

DOI: 10.3945/ajcn.113.079624
PMCID: PMC3985209
PMID: 24522447 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


414. Proc Biol Sci. 2014 Feb 12;281(1780):20133108. doi: 10.1098/rspb.2013.3108. 
Print 2014 Apr 7.

Seasonality in communication and collective decision-making in ants.

Stroeymeyt N(1), Jordan C, Mayer G, Hovsepian S, Giurfa M, Franks NR.

Author information:
(1)School of Biological Sciences, University of Bristol, , Bristol BS8 1UG, UK, 
Centre de Recherches sur la Cognition Animale, Université de Toulouse, , 
Toulouse, France, Centre de Recherches sur la Cognition Animale, CNRS, , 
Toulouse, France.

The ability of animals to adjust their behaviour according to seasonal changes 
in their ecology is crucial for their fitness. Eusocial insects display strong 
collective behavioural seasonality, yet the mechanisms underlying such changes 
are poorly understood. We show that nest preference by emigrating Temnothorax 
albipennis ant colonies is influenced by a season-specific modulatory pheromone 
that may help tune decision-making according to seasonal constraints. The 
modulatory pheromone triggers aversion towards low-quality nests and enhances 
colony cohesion in summer and autumn, but not after overwintering-in agreement 
with reports that field colonies split in spring and reunite in summer. 
Interestingly, we show that the pheromone acts by downgrading the perceived 
value of marked nests by informed and naive individuals. This contrasts with 
theories of collective intelligence, stating that accurate collective 
decision-making requires independent evaluation of options by individuals. The 
violation of independence highlighted here was accordingly shown to increase 
error rate during emigrations. However, this is counterbalanced by enhanced 
cohesion and the transmission of valuable information through the colony. Our 
results support recent claims that optimal decisions are not necessarily those 
that maximize accuracy. Other criteria-such as cohesion or reward rate-may be 
more relevant in animal decision-making.

DOI: 10.1098/rspb.2013.3108
PMCID: PMC4027394
PMID: 24523272 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


415. Neurology. 2014 Mar 11;82(10):835-41. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000000188. Epub 
2014 Feb 12.

Neuroimaging abnormalities in adults with sickle cell anemia: associations with 
cognition.

Mackin RS(1), Insel P, Truran D, Vichinsky EP, Neumayr LD, Armstrong FD, Gold 
JI, Kesler K, Brewer J, Weiner MW; Neuropsychological Dysfunction and 
Neuroimaging Adult Sickle Cell Anemia Study Group.

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Psychiatry (R.S.M.), University of California, San 
Francisco; Center for Imaging of Neurodegenerative Diseases (R.S.M., P.I., D.T., 
J.B., M.W.W.), San Francisco Veterans Administration Medical Center, San 
Francisco; Hematology/Oncology Department (E.P.V., L.D.N.), Children's Hospital 
& Research Center Oakland; Keck School of Medicine (J.I.G.), University of 
Southern California; Departments of Anesthesiology and Pediatrics (J.I.G.), 
Children's Hospital Los Angeles, CA; Rho, Inc. (K.K.), Research Triangle Park, 
NC; Department of Pediatrics (F.D.A.), University of Miami Miller School of 
Medicine and Holtz Children's Hospital, Miami, FL; and Veterans Administration 
Medical Center (M.W.W.), and Departments of Radiology, Medicine, Psychiatry, and 
Neurology, University of California, San Francisco.

OBJECTIVE: This study was conducted to determine the relationship of frontal 
lobe cortical thickness and basal ganglia volumes to measures of cognition in 
adults with sickle cell anemia (SCA).
METHODS: Participants included 120 adults with SCA with no history of neurologic 
dysfunction and 33 healthy controls (HCs). Participants were enrolled at 12 
medical center sites, and raters were blinded to diagnostic group. We 
hypothesized that individuals with SCA would exhibit reductions in frontal lobe 
cortex thickness and reduced basal ganglia and thalamus volumes compared with 
HCs and that these structural brain abnormalities would be associated with 
measures of cognitive functioning (Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale, 3rd 
edition).
RESULTS: After adjusting for age, sex, education level, and intracranial volume, 
participants with SCA exhibited thinner frontal lobe cortex (t = -2.99, p = 
0.003) and reduced basal ganglia and thalamus volumes compared with HCs (t = 
-3.95, p < 0.001). Reduced volume of the basal ganglia and thalamus was 
significantly associated with lower Performance IQ (model estimate = 3.75, p = 
0.004) as well as lower Perceptual Organization (model estimate = 1.44, p = 
0.007) and Working Memory scores (model estimate = 1.37, p = 0.015). Frontal 
lobe cortex thickness was not significantly associated with any cognitive 
measures.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that basal ganglia and thalamus abnormalities 
may represent a particularly salient contributor to cognitive dysfunction in 
adults with SCA.

DOI: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000000188
PMCID: PMC3959758
PMID: 24523480 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


416. J Neurophysiol. 2014 May;111(9):1823-32. doi: 10.1152/jn.00393.2013. Epub 2014 
Feb 12.

Intelligence moderates neural responses to monetary reward and punishment.

Hawes DR(1), DeYoung CG, Gray JR, Rustichini A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Applied Economics, University of Minnesota, St. Paul, 
Minnesota;

The relations between intelligence (IQ) and neural responses to monetary gains 
and losses were investigated in a simple decision task. In 94 healthy adults, 
typical responses of striatal blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) signal after 
monetary reward and punishment were weaker for subjects with higher IQ. 
IQ-moderated differential responses to gains and losses were also found for 
regions in the medial prefrontal cortex, posterior cingulate cortex, and left 
inferior frontal cortex. These regions have previously been identified with the 
subjective utility of monetary outcomes. Analysis of subjects' behavior revealed 
a correlation between IQ and the extent to which choices were related to 
experienced decision outcomes in preceding trials. Specifically, higher IQ 
predicted behavior to be more strongly correlated with an extended period of 
previously experienced decision outcomes, whereas lower IQ predicted behavior to 
be correlated exclusively to the most recent decision outcomes. We link these 
behavioral and imaging findings to a theoretical model capable of describing a 
role for intelligence during the evaluation of rewards generated by unknown 
probabilistic processes. Our results demonstrate neural differences in how 
people of different intelligence respond to experienced monetary rewards and 
punishments. Our theoretical discussion offers a functional description for how 
these individual differences may be linked to choice behavior. Together, our 
results and model support the hypothesis that observed correlations between 
intelligence and preferences may be rooted in the way decision outcomes are 
experienced ex post, rather than deriving exclusively from how choices are 
evaluated ex ante.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00393.2013
PMCID: PMC4044365
PMID: 24523519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


417. Neuropsychiatr Dis Treat. 2014 Feb 3;10:231-42. doi: 10.2147/NDT.S56600. 
eCollection 2014.

Predicting the clinical outcome of stimulant medication in pediatric 
attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder: data from quantitative 
electroencephalography, event-related potentials, and a go/no-go test.

Ogrim G(1), Kropotov J(2), Brunner JF(3), Candrian G(4), Sandvik L(5), Hestad 
KA(6).

Author information:
(1)Neuropsychiatric Unit, Østfold Hospital Trust, Fredrikstad, Norway ; National 
Resource Center for ADHD, Tourette's Syndrome, and Narcolepsy, Oslo, Norway ; 
Institute of Psychology, Norwegian University of Science and Technology, 
Trondheim, Norway.
(2)Institute of Psychology, Norwegian University of Science and Technology, 
Trondheim, Norway ; Institute of the Human Brain, Russian Academy of Sciences, 
Saint Petersburg, Russia ; Department of Neuropsychology, Andrzej Frycz 
Modrzewski Krakow University, Krakow, Poland.
(3)Institute of Psychology, Norwegian University of Science and Technology, 
Trondheim, Norway ; Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, St 
Olav's Hospital, Trondheim, Norway ; Department of Neuroscience, Norwegian 
University of Science and Technology, Trondheim, Norway.
(4)Brain and Trauma Foundation, Chur, Switzerland.
(5)Oslo University Hospital, Department of Biostatistics, Epidemiology, and 
Health Economy, Oslo, Norway.
(6)Institute of Psychology, Norwegian University of Science and Technology, 
Trondheim, Norway ; Division of Mental Health, Innlandet Hospital Trust, 
Brumunddal, Norway.

BACKGROUND: We searched for predictors of the clinical outcome of stimulant 
medication in pediatric attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), 
emphasizing variables from quantitative electroencephalography, event-related 
potentials (ERPs), and behavioral data from a visual go/no-go test.
METHODS: Nineteen-channel electroencephalography (EEG) was recorded during the 
resting state in eyes-open and eyes-closed conditions and during performance of 
the cued go/no-go task in 98 medication-naïve ADHD patients aged 7-17 years and 
in 90 controls with the same age and sex distribution as the patients. For 
patients, the recording was followed by a systematic trial on stimulant 
medication lasting at least 4 weeks. Based on data from rating scales and 
interviews, two psychologists who were blind to the electrophysiological results 
independently rated the patients as responders (REs) (N=74) or non-responders 
(non-REs) (N=24). Using a logistic regression model, comparisons were made 
between REs and non-REs on the EEG spectra, ERPs (cue P3, contingent negative 
variation, and P3 no-go of the ERP waves and independent components [ICs] 
extracted from these waves), reaction time, reaction time variability, number of 
commission and omission errors, intelligence quotient, age, sex, ADHD subtype, 
and comorbidities.
RESULTS: The two groups differed significantly on eight of the variables, with 
effect sizes (Cohen's d) ranging from 0.49 to 0.76. In the multivariate logistic 
regression analysis, only three of these variables were significantly associated 
with clinical outcome. The amplitude of the IC cue P3, which has a 
parietal-occipital distribution, was normal in REs but significantly smaller in 
non-REs, whereas the centrally distributed IC P3 no-go early was smaller in REs 
than in non-REs and controls. In addition, the REs had more power in the EEG 
theta band. A quartile-based index was calculated using these three variables. 
The group with the lowest scores comprised only 36% REs; response rates in the 
three other groups were 83%, 86%, and 89%.
CONCLUSION: The clinical outcome of stimulant medication was best predicted by 
electrophysiological parameters. The brain dysfunctions of the REs appear to be 
primarily associated with prefrontal lobe hypoactivation. The non-REs were 
deviant from the controls in parietal-occipital functions.

DOI: 10.2147/NDT.S56600
PMCID: PMC3921081
PMID: 24523588


418. Evol Psychol. 2014 Feb 13;12(1):97-114.

Physical attractiveness, attitudes toward career, and mate preferences among 
young Chinese women.

Zhang H(1), Teng F(2), Chan DK(3), Zhang D(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Nanjing University, Nanjing, China.
(2)Department of Psychology, South China Normal University, China.
(3)Department of Psychology, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong.
(4)Department of Psychology, Renmin University of China, Beijing, China.

We examined young Chinese women's mate preferences as a function of their 
self-perceived attractiveness and career attitudes. A total of 264 young Chinese 
women rated their own attractiveness, reported their attitudes toward career, 
and rated the importance of 20 mate characteristics. The characteristics 
encompassed four facets that individuals typically consider when seeking a 
long-term mate: good-genes indicators, good investment ability indicators, good 
parenting indicators, and good partner indicators. We found that both 
self-perceived attractiveness and attitudes toward career were positively 
associated with the importance attached to several of the characteristics. 
Moreover, women who had high career focus but low self-perceived attractiveness 
attached more value to intelligence, ambition, and industriousness than women 
who had low career focus but high self-perceived attractiveness; women with low 
career focus but high self-perceived attractiveness attached more value to 
physical attractiveness in a mate than women with high career focus but low 
self-perceived attractiveness. We discussed the limitations of our research and 
directions for future research.

PMID: 24525338 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


419. Comput Intell Neurosci. 2014;2014:970456. doi: 10.1155/2014/970456. Epub 2014 
Jan 12.

An improved hybrid encoding cuckoo search algorithm for 0-1 knapsack problems.

Feng Y(1), Jia K(2), He Y(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Information Engineering, Shijiazhuang University of Economics, 
Shijiazhuang 050031, China.
(2)School of Information Science and Engineering, Hebei University of Science 
and Technology, Shijiazhuang 050018, China.

Cuckoo search (CS) is a new robust swarm intelligence method that is based on 
the brood parasitism of some cuckoo species. In this paper, an improved hybrid 
encoding cuckoo search algorithm (ICS) with greedy strategy is put forward for 
solving 0-1 knapsack problems. First of all, for solving binary optimization 
problem with ICS, based on the idea of individual hybrid encoding, the cuckoo 
search over a continuous space is transformed into the synchronous evolution 
search over discrete space. Subsequently, the concept of confidence interval 
(CI) is introduced; hence, the new position updating is designed and genetic 
mutation with a small probability is introduced. The former enables the 
population to move towards the global best solution rapidly in every generation, 
and the latter can effectively prevent the ICS from trapping into the local 
optimum. Furthermore, the greedy transform method is used to repair the 
infeasible solution and optimize the feasible solution. Experiments with a large 
number of KP instances show the effectiveness of the proposed algorithm and its 
ability to achieve good quality solutions.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/970456
PMCID: PMC3913292
PMID: 24527026 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


420. Autism Res Treat. 2014;2014:345878. doi: 10.1155/2014/345878. Epub 2014 Jan 5.

No differences in emotion recognition strategies in children with autism 
spectrum disorder: evidence from hybrid faces.

Evers K(1), Kerkhof I(2), Steyaert J(3), Noens I(4), Wagemans J(5).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Experimental Psychology, KU Leuven, Tiensestraat 102 (Box 
3711), 3000 Leuven, Belgium ; Department of Child Psychiatry, UPC-KU Leuven, 
3000 Leuven, Belgium ; Leuven Autism Research (LAuRes), KU Leuven, 3000 Leuven, 
Belgium.
(2)Quantitative Psychology and Individual Differences, KU Leuven, 3000 Leuven, 
Belgium.
(3)Department of Child Psychiatry, UPC-KU Leuven, 3000 Leuven, Belgium ; Leuven 
Autism Research (LAuRes), KU Leuven, 3000 Leuven, Belgium ; Department of 
Clinical Genetics, University Hospital Maastricht, 6200 Maastricht, The 
Netherlands.
(4)Leuven Autism Research (LAuRes), KU Leuven, 3000 Leuven, Belgium ; Parenting 
and Special Education Research Unit, KU Leuven, 3000 Leuven, Belgium ; 
Psychiatric and Neurodevelopmental Genetics Unit, Massachusetts General 
Hospital, MA, Boston, USA.
(5)Laboratory of Experimental Psychology, KU Leuven, Tiensestraat 102 (Box 
3711), 3000 Leuven, Belgium ; Leuven Autism Research (LAuRes), KU Leuven, 3000 
Leuven, Belgium.

Emotion recognition problems are frequently reported in individuals with an 
autism spectrum disorder (ASD). However, this research area is characterized by 
inconsistent findings, with atypical emotion processing strategies possibly 
contributing to existing contradictions. In addition, an attenuated saliency of 
the eyes region is often demonstrated in ASD during face identity processing. We 
wanted to compare reliance on mouth versus eyes information in children with and 
without ASD, using hybrid facial expressions. A group of six-to-eight-year-old 
boys with ASD and an age- and intelligence-matched typically developing (TD) 
group without intellectual disability performed an emotion labelling task with 
hybrid facial expressions. Five static expressions were used: one neutral 
expression and four emotional expressions, namely, anger, fear, happiness, and 
sadness. Hybrid faces were created, consisting of an emotional face half (upper 
or lower face region) with the other face half showing a neutral expression. 
Results showed no emotion recognition problem in ASD. Moreover, we provided 
evidence for the existence of top- and bottom-emotions in children: correct 
identification of expressions mainly depends on information in the eyes 
(so-called top-emotions: happiness) or in the mouth region (so-called 
bottom-emotions: sadness, anger, and fear). No stronger reliance on mouth 
information was found in children with ASD.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/345878
PMCID: PMC3909988
PMID: 24527213


421. Forensic Sci Int Genet. 2014 Mar;9:150-61. doi: 10.1016/j.fsigen.2013.12.006. 
Epub 2013 Dec 27.

Developmental validation of the HIrisPlex system: DNA-based eye and hair colour 
prediction for forensic and anthropological usage.

Walsh S(1), Chaitanya L(1), Clarisse L(2), Wirken L(3), Draus-Barini J(4), 
Kovatsi L(5), Maeda H(6), Ishikawa T(7), Sijen T(2), de Knijff P(3), Branicki 
W(8), Liu F(1), Kayser M(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Forensic Molecular Biology, Erasmus MC University Medical 
Centre Rotterdam, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(2)Department of Human Biological Traces, Netherlands Forensic Institute, The 
Hague, The Netherlands.
(3)Forensic Laboratory for DNA Research, Department of Human Genetics, Leiden 
University Medical Center, Leiden, The Netherlands.
(4)Section of Forensic Genetics, Institute of Forensic Research, Kraków, Poland.
(5)Laboratory of Forensic Medicine & Toxicology, School of Medicine, Aristotle 
University of Thessaloniki, Thessaloniki, Greece.
(6)Department of Legal Medicine, Osaka City University, Medical School, Osaka, 
Japan.
(7)Department of Legal Medicine, Osaka City University, Medical School, Osaka, 
Japan; Division of Legal Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Tottori University, 86 
Nichicho Yonago, Japan.
(8)Section of Forensic Genetics, Institute of Forensic Research, Kraków, Poland; 
Department of Genetics and Evolution, Institute of Zoology, Jagiellonian 
University, Kraków, Poland.
(9)Department of Forensic Molecular Biology, Erasmus MC University Medical 
Centre Rotterdam, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. Electronic address: 
m.kayser@erasmusmc.nl.

Forensic DNA Phenotyping or 'DNA intelligence' tools are expected to aid police 
investigations and find unknown individuals by providing information on 
externally visible characteristics of unknown suspects, perpetrators and missing 
persons from biological samples. This is especially useful in cases where 
conventional DNA profiling or other means remain non-informative. Recently, we 
introduced the HIrisPlex system, capable of predicting both eye and hair colour 
from DNA. In the present developmental validation study, we demonstrate that the 
HIrisPlex assay performs in full agreement with the Scientific Working Group on 
DNA Analysis Methods (SWGDAM) guidelines providing an essential prerequisite for 
future HIrisPlex applications to forensic casework. The HIrisPlex assay produces 
complete profiles down to only 63 pg of DNA. Species testing revealed human 
specificity for a complete HIrisPlex profile, while only non-human primates 
showed the closest full profile at 20 out of the 24 DNA markers, in all animals 
tested. Rigorous testing of simulated forensic casework samples such as blood, 
semen, saliva stains, hairs with roots as well as extremely low quantity touch 
(trace) DNA samples, produced complete profiles in 88% of cases. Concordance 
testing performed between five independent forensic laboratories displayed 
consistent reproducible results on varying types of DNA samples. Due to its 
design, the assay caters for degraded samples, underlined here by results from 
artificially degraded DNA and from simulated casework samples of degraded DNA. 
This aspect was also demonstrated previously on DNA samples from human remains 
up to several hundreds of years old. With this paper, we also introduce enhanced 
eye and hair colour prediction models based on enlarged underlying databases of 
HIrisPlex genotypes and eye/hair colour phenotypes (eye colour: N = 9188 and 
hair colour: N = 1601). Furthermore, we present an online web-based system for 
individual eye and hair colour prediction from full and partial HIrisPlex DNA 
profiles. By demonstrating that the HIrisPlex assay is fully compatible with the 
SWGDAM guidelines, we provide the first forensically validated DNA test system 
for parallel eye and hair colour prediction now available to forensic 
laboratories for immediate casework application, including missing person cases. 
Given the robustness and sensitivity described here and in previous work, the 
HIrisPlex system is also suitable for analysing old and ancient DNA in 
anthropological and evolutionary studies.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fsigen.2013.12.006
PMID: 24528593 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


422. Psychogeriatrics. 2014 Mar;14(1):72-80. doi: 10.1111/psyg.12039. Epub 2014 Feb 
16.

Three presenile patients in which neuropsychological and neuroimaging 
examinations suggest possible progression to dementia with Lewy bodies.

Ota K(1), Iseki E, Murayama N, Chiba Y, Fujishiro H, Kasanuki K, Manabe Y, Arai 
H, Sato K.

Author information:
(1)PET/CT Dementia Research Center, Juntendo Tokyo Koto Geriatric Medical 
Center, Juntendo University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.

We report three presenile patients who were initially suspected of having 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) or being in the prodromal stage of AD, regardless of 
visuoperceptual dysfunctions in daily living, because they lacked the core 
features and prodromal non-motor symptoms of dementia with Lewy bodies. 
Subsequently, progression to dementia with Lewy bodies was suspected based on 
neuropsychological and neuroimaging findings; additionally, one of the three 
patients suffered from visual hallucinations. Neuropsychological examinations 
such as subjective contours, cube copying and block design in the Wechsler Adult 
Intelligence Scale-III revealed visuoperceptual dysfunction in all three 
patients even when other cognitive functions were rather preserved. Brain 
magnetic resonance imaging revealed no significant brain atrophy, including in 
the parieto-occipital area and the hippocampus, while brain 
(18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography demonstrated right 
dominant metabolic reductions in the occipital lobe, including the primary 
visual cortex, in all three patients. We suggest the possibility of progression 
to dementia with Lewy bodies, but not AD or posterior cortical atrophy. 
Regardless of the presence of core features and prodromal non-motor symptoms, 
this progression is suggested when there are difficulties only in higher-level 
visual processing such as subjective contours and block design in the Wechsler 
Adult Intelligence Scale-III, no significant atrophy of the parieto-occipital 
area and hippocampus on brain magnetic resonance imaging, and hypometabolism in 
the occipital lobe including the primary visual cortex on brain 
(18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography.

© 2014 The Authors. Psychogeriatrics © 2014 Japanese Psychogeriatric Society.

DOI: 10.1111/psyg.12039
PMID: 24528622 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


423. Res Dev Disabil. 2014 Apr;35(4):826-32. doi: 10.1016/j.ridd.2014.01.016. Epub 
2014 Feb 14.

Cognitive precursors of arithmetic development in primary school children with 
cerebral palsy.

Van Rooijen M(1), Verhoeven L(2), Smits DW(3), Dallmeijer AJ(4), Becher JG(5), 
Steenbergen B(6).

Author information:
(1)Radboud University Nijmegen, Behavioural Science Institute, Montessorilaan 3, 
6525 HR Nijmegen, The Netherlands. Electronic address: m.vanrooijen@pwo.ru.nl.
(2)Radboud University Nijmegen, Behavioural Science Institute, Montessorilaan 3, 
6525 HR Nijmegen, The Netherlands. Electronic address: l.verhoeven@pwo.ru.nl.
(3)Brain Center Rudolf Magnus and Center of Excellence for Rehabilitation 
Medicine, University Medical Center Utrecht and De Hoogstraat Rehabilitation, 
Utrecht, The Netherlands. Electronic address: d.smits@dehoogstraat.nl.
(4)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, VU University Medical Center, 
Boelelaan 1118, 1081 HZ Amsterdam, The Netherlands; EMGO Institute for Health 
and Care Research, VU University Medical Center, Van der Boechorststraat 7, 1081 
BT Amsterdam, The Netherlands. Electronic address: a.dallmeijer@vumc.nl.
(5)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, VU University Medical Center, 
Boelelaan 1118, 1081 HZ Amsterdam, The Netherlands; EMGO Institute for Health 
and Care Research, VU University Medical Center, Van der Boechorststraat 7, 1081 
BT Amsterdam, The Netherlands. Electronic address: jg.becher@vumc.nl.
(6)Radboud University Nijmegen, Behavioural Science Institute, Montessorilaan 3, 
6525 HR Nijmegen, The Netherlands. Electronic address: b.steenbergen@pwo.ru.nl.

The aim of this study was to examine the development of arithmetic performance 
and its cognitive precursors in children with CP from 7 till 9 years of age. 
Previous research has shown that children with CP are generally delayed in 
arithmetic performance compared to their typically developing peers. In children 
with CP, the developmental trajectory of the ability to solve addition- and 
subtraction tasks has, however, rarely been studied, as well as the cognitive 
factors affecting this trajectory. Sixty children (M=7.2 years, SD=.23 months at 
study entry) with CP participated in this study. Standardized tests were 
administered to assess arithmetic performance, word decoding skills, non-verbal 
intelligence, and working memory. The results showed that the ability to solve 
addition- and subtraction tasks increased over a two year period. Word decoding 
skills were positively related to the initial status of arithmetic performance. 
In addition, non-verbal intelligence and working memory were associated with the 
initial status and growth rate of arithmetic performance from 7 till 9 years of 
age. The current study highlights the importance of non-verbal intelligence and 
working memory to the development of arithmetic performance of children with CP.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ridd.2014.01.016
PMID: 24529861 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


424. Cogn Psychol. 2014 Jun;71:1-26. doi: 10.1016/j.cogpsych.2014.01.003. Epub 2014 
Feb 14.

Working memory and fluid intelligence: capacity, attention control, and 
secondary memory retrieval.

Unsworth N(1), Fukuda K(2), Awh E(3), Vogel EK(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Oregon, United States. Electronic 
address: nashu@uoregon.edu.
(2)Department of Psychology, Vanderbilt University, United States.
(3)Department of Psychology, University of Oregon, United States.

Several theories have been put forth to explain the relation between working 
memory (WM) and gF. Unfortunately, no single factor has been shown to fully 
account for the relation between these two important constructs. In the current 
study we tested whether multiple factors (capacity, attention control, and 
secondary memory) would collectively account for the relation. A large number of 
participants performed multiple measures of each construct and latent variable 
analyses were used to examine the data. The results demonstrated that capacity, 
attention control, and secondary memory were uniquely related to WM storage, WM 
processing, and gF. Importantly, the three factors completely accounted for the 
relation between WM (both processing and storage) and gF. Thus, although storage 
and processing make independent contributions to gF, both of these contributions 
are accounted for by variation in capacity, attention control and secondary 
memory. These results are consistent with the multifaceted view of WM, 
suggesting that individual differences in capacity, attention control, and 
secondary memory jointly account for individual differences in WM and its 
relation with gF.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cogpsych.2014.01.003
PMCID: PMC4484859
PMID: 24531497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


425. Cogn Psychol. 2014 Jun;71:27-54. doi: 10.1016/j.cogpsych.2014.01.002. Epub 2014 
Feb 14.

The discovery and comparison of symbolic magnitudes.

Chen D(1), Lu H(2), Holyoak KJ(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of California, Los Angeles, 1285 Franz 
Hall, Box 951563, Los Angeles, CA 90095-1563, United States. Electronic address: 
sdchen@ucla.edu.
(2)Department of Psychology, University of California, Los Angeles, 1285 Franz 
Hall, Box 951563, Los Angeles, CA 90095-1563, United States; Department of 
Statistics, University of California, Los Angeles, United States. Electronic 
address: hongjing@ucla.edu.
(3)Department of Psychology, University of California, Los Angeles, 1285 Franz 
Hall, Box 951563, Los Angeles, CA 90095-1563, United States. Electronic address: 
holyoak@lifesci.ucla.edu.

Humans and other primates are able to make relative magnitude comparisons, both 
with perceptual stimuli and with symbolic inputs that convey magnitude 
information. Although numerous models of magnitude comparison have been 
proposed, the basic question of how symbolic magnitudes (e.g., size or 
intelligence of animals) are derived and represented in memory has received 
little attention. We argue that symbolic magnitudes often will not correspond 
directly to elementary features of individual concepts. Rather, magnitudes may 
be formed in working memory based on computations over more basic features 
stored in long-term memory. We present a model of how magnitudes can be acquired 
and compared based on BARTlet, a representationally simpler version of Bayesian 
Analogy with Relational Transformations (BART; Lu, Chen, & Holyoak, 2012). 
BARTlet operates on distributions of magnitude variables created by applying 
dimension-specific weights (learned with the aid of empirical priors derived 
from pre-categorical comparisons) to more primitive features of objects. The 
resulting magnitude distributions, formed and maintained in working memory, are 
sensitive to contextual influences such as the range of stimuli and polarity of 
the question. By incorporating psychological reference points that control the 
precision of magnitudes in working memory and applying the tools of signal 
detection theory, BARTlet is able to account for a wide range of empirical 
phenomena involving magnitude comparisons, including the symbolic distance 
effect and the semantic congruity effect. We discuss the role of reference 
points in cognitive and social decision-making, and implications for the 
evolution of relational representations.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cogpsych.2014.01.002
PMID: 24531498 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


426. Yonsei Med J. 2014 Mar;55(2):417-21. doi: 10.3349/ymj.2014.55.2.417.

Vitamin D levels in children and adolescents with antiepileptic drug treatment.

Baek JH(1), Seo YH, Kim GH, Kim MK, Eun BL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Korea University Guro Hospital, 148 Gurodong-ro, 
Guro-gu, Seoul 152-703, Korea. bleun@korea.ac.kr.

PURPOSE: This study was to evaluate the relationship of 25(OH)D3 levels with 
anticonvulsant use and other possible factors in epileptic children and 
adolescents.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We studied 143 patients with epilepsy (90 boys, 53 girls; 
11.21±4.49 years), who had been treated with anticonvulsants for more than 1 
year. Patients who had taken multiple vitamins before the blood test and those 
who have the limitation of physical activity (wheelchair-bound) were excluded 
from the study. We evaluated the difference in vitamin D status according to the 
type and number of anticonvulsants taken and other factors such as gender, age, 
intelligence and seizure variables.
RESULTS: For patients with mental retardation or developmental delay, 25(OH)D3 
levels were lower than the levels in patients with normal intelligence quotient 
levels (p=0.03). 25(OH)D3 levels were lower in patients who had taken 
anticonvulsants for more than 2 years as compared to those who had taken them 
for less than 2 years (p=0.03). Those taking oxcarbazepine had significantly 
lower vitamin D levels than patients taking valproic acid (p=0.01). However, no 
effects of number of anticonvulsants taken were detectable. More than two-thirds 
of the patients were diagnosed with osteopenia or osteoporosis in patients 
showing either vitamin D insufficiency or deficiency.
CONCLUSION: The possibility of vitamin D deficiency can be considered in 
pediatric patients taking anticonvulsants if they have mental retardation or 
developmental delay or if they have been taking anticonvulsants for more than 2 
years or taking hepatic enzyme inducing drugs.

DOI: 10.3349/ymj.2014.55.2.417
PMCID: PMC3936617
PMID: 24532512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no financial conflicts of 
interest.


427. Eur J Pers. 2014 Jan 1;28(1):95-105. doi: 10.1002/per.1941.

The Road to Creative Achievement: A Latent Variable Model of Ability and 
Personality Predictors.

Jauk E(1), Benedek M(1), Neubauer AC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Graz, Austria.

This study investigated the significance of different well-established 
psychometric indicators of creativity for real-life creative outcomes. 
Specifically, we tested the effects of creative potential, intelligence, and 
openness to experiences on everyday creative activities and actual creative 
achievement. Using a heterogeneous sample of 297 adults, we performed latent 
multiple regression analyses by means of structural equation modelling. We found 
openness to experiences and two independent indicators of creative potential, 
ideational originality and ideational fluency, to predict everyday creative 
activities. Creative activities, in turn, predicted actual creative achievement. 
Intelligence was found to predict creative achievement, but not creative 
activities. Moreover, intelligence moderated the effect of creative activities 
on creative achievement, suggesting that intelligence may play an important role 
in transforming creative activities into publically acknowledged creative 
achievements. This study supports the view of creativity as a multifaceted 
construct and provides an integrative model illustrating the potential interplay 
between its different facets.

DOI: 10.1002/per.1941
PMCID: PMC3923982
PMID: 24532953


428. Pediatrics. 2014 Mar;133(3):e546-52. doi: 10.1542/peds.2013-3010. Epub 2014 Feb 
17.

Long-term motor and cognitive outcome of acute encephalitis.

Michaeli O(1), Kassis I, Shachor-Meyouhas Y, Shahar E, Ravid S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics B.

OBJECTIVES: To examine the long-term motor and neurocognitive outcome of 
children with acute encephalitis and to look at possible prognostic factors.
METHODS: Children who were treated for acute encephalitis in 2000-2010 were 
reevaluated. All children and their parents were interviewed by using structured 
questionnaires, and the children underwent full neurologic examinations, along 
with comprehensive neurocognitive, attention, and behavioral assessments.
RESULTS: Of the 47 children enrolled, 1 died and 29 had neurologic sequelae, 
including motor impairment, mental retardation, epilepsy, and attention and 
learning disorders. Children with encephalitis had a significantly higher 
prevalence of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (50%) and learning 
disabilities (20%) compared with the reported rate (5%-10%) in the general 
population of Israel (P < .05) and lower IQ scores. Lower intelligence scores 
and significantly impaired attention and learning were found even in children 
who were considered fully recovered at the time of discharge. Risk factors for 
long-term severe neurologic sequelae were focal signs in the neurologic 
examination and abnormal neuroimaging on admission, confirmed infectious cause, 
and long hospital stay.
CONCLUSIONS: Encephalitis in children may be associated with significant 
long-term neurologic sequelae. Significant cognitive impairment, 
attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder, and learning disabilities are common, 
and even children who were considered fully recovered at discharge may be 
significantly affected. Neuropsychological testing should be recommended for 
survivors of childhood encephalitis.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.2013-3010
PMID: 24534397 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


429. Pediatrics. 2014 Mar;133(3):412-21. doi: 10.1542/peds.2013-1863. Epub 2014 Feb 
17.

Invasive procedures in preterm children: brain and cognitive development at 
school age.

Vinall J(1), Miller SP, Bjornson BH, Fitzpatrick KP, Poskitt KJ, Brant R, Synnes 
AR, Cepeda IL, Grunau RE.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Neuroscience.

BACKGROUND: Very preterm infants (born 24-32 weeks' gestation) undergo numerous 
invasive procedures during neonatal care. Repeated skin-breaking procedures in 
rodents cause neuronal cell death, and in human preterm neonates higher numbers 
of invasive procedures from birth to term-equivalent age are associated with 
abnormal brain development, even after controlling for other clinical risk 
factors. It is unknown whether higher numbers of invasive procedures are 
associated with long-term alterations in brain microstructure and cognitive 
outcome at school age in children born very preterm.
METHODS: Fifty children born very preterm underwent MRI and cognitive testing at 
median age 7.6 years (interquartile range, 7.5-7.7). T1- and T2-weighted images 
were assessed for the severity of brain injury. Magnetic resonance diffusion 
tensor sequences were used to measure fractional anisotropy (FA), an index of 
white matter (WM) maturation, from 7 anatomically defined WM regions. Child 
cognition was assessed using the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children-IV. 
Multivariate modeling was used to examine relationships between invasive 
procedures, brain microstructure, and cognition, adjusting for clinical 
confounders (eg, infection, ventilation, brain injury).
RESULTS: Greater numbers of invasive procedures were associated with lower FA 
values of the WM at age 7 years (P = .01). The interaction between the number of 
procedures and FA was associated with IQ (P = .02), such that greater numbers of 
invasive procedures and lower FA of the superior WM were related to lower IQ.
CONCLUSIONS: Invasive procedures during neonatal care contribute to long-term 
abnormalities in WM microstructure and lower IQ.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.2013-1863
PMCID: PMC3934331
PMID: 24534406 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


430. Autism. 2015 Apr;19(3):308-15. doi: 10.1177/1362361314520755. Epub 2014 Feb 17.

Misinterpretation of facial expressions of emotion in verbal adults with autism 
spectrum disorder.

Eack SM(1), Mazefsky CA(2), Minshew NJ(2).

Author information:
(1)University of Pittsburgh, USA sme12@pitt.edu.
(2)University of Pittsburgh, USA.

Facial emotion perception is significantly affected in autism spectrum disorder, 
yet little is known about how individuals with autism spectrum disorder 
misinterpret facial expressions that result in their difficulty in accurately 
recognizing emotion in faces. This study examined facial emotion perception in 
45 verbal adults with autism spectrum disorder and 30 age- and gender-matched 
volunteers without autism spectrum disorder to identify patterns of emotion 
misinterpretation during face processing that contribute to emotion recognition 
impairments in autism. Results revealed that difficulty distinguishing emotional 
from neutral facial expressions characterized much of the emotion perception 
impairments exhibited by participants with autism spectrum disorder. In 
particular, adults with autism spectrum disorder uniquely misinterpreted happy 
faces as neutral, and were significantly more likely than typical volunteers to 
attribute negative valence to nonemotional faces. The over-attribution of 
emotions to neutral faces was significantly related to greater communication and 
emotional intelligence impairments in individuals with autism spectrum disorder. 
These findings suggest a potential negative bias toward the interpretation of 
facial expressions and may have implications for interventions designed to 
remediate emotion perception in autism spectrum disorder.

© The Author(s) 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/1362361314520755
PMCID: PMC4135024
PMID: 24535689 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


431. Psychiatry Clin Neurosci. 2014 Jun;68(6):479-86. doi: 10.1111/pcn.12152. Epub 
2014 Feb 18.

Psychological and mental health problems in patients with thalidomide 
embryopathy in Japan.

Imai K(1), Iida T, Yamamoto M, Komatsu K, Nukui Y, Yoshizawa A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, National Center for Global Health and Medicine 
Hospital, Tokyo, Japan.

AIM: The aim of the study was to examine the presence of psychological and 
mental health problems in patients with thalidomide embryopathy in Japan in 
order to develop and build future support systems.
METHODS: The present study examined the presence/absence of 
electroencephalographic abnormalities, intellectual/cognitive functions, and 
mental health problems in 22 participants (nine men, 13 women) with thalidomide 
embryopathy. Participants completed the electroencephalograph instrument. 
Participants were also assessed using the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-III; 
the Autism-Spectrum Quotient; the General Health Questionnaire-28, and the 
Mini-International Neuropsychiatric Interview.
RESULTS: The results suggest the following: (i) electroencephalographic 
abnormality observed in several thalidomide embryopathy participants is unlikely 
to be the direct result of thalidomide; (ii) the cognitive functions of working 
memory and processing speed are lower in thalidomide embryopathy patients than 
in healthy individuals; and (iii) 40.9% of the thalidomide embryopathy 
participants have possible mental disorders, with more mental problems observed 
than in healthy individuals.
CONCLUSIONS: Deterioration of mental health in patients with thalidomide 
embryopathy is indicated. Anxiety, insomnia, and physical symptoms were 
especially remarkable and may have resulted in restriction of social activities. 
Therefore, careful examination and active support of patients' psychological and 
mental problems is essential.

© 2014 The Authors. Psychiatry and Clinical Neurosciences © 2014 Japanese 
Society of Psychiatry and Neurology.

DOI: 10.1111/pcn.12152
PMID: 24548169 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


432. Int J Psychophysiol. 2014 May;92(2):49-58. doi: 10.1016/j.ijpsycho.2014.02.004. 
Epub 2014 Feb 15.

Impact of chronotype and time perspective on the processing of scripts.

Nowack K(1), van der Meer E(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Humboldt University Berlin, Germany. Electronic 
address: kati.nowack@hu-berlin.de.
(2)Department of Psychology, Humboldt University Berlin, Germany; Berlin School 
of Mind and Brain, Germany.

Little is known about the impact of temporal orientation (chronotype; time 
perspective) on cognitive performance. This study adopted a psychophysiological 
approach to explore how chronotype (morningness-eveningness) and time 
perspective (present; future) influence time succession as another aspect of 
psychological time that is entailed within script knowledge. In a temporal 
judgment task, participants decided which of the two presented sub-events (e.g., 
get new batteries-set right time on alarm clock) comes earlier (or later) within 
a given script (e.g., changing batteries in an alarm clock). Behavioral and 
pupillary data suggest a differential impact of chronotype and time perspective 
on script knowledge and cognitive performance. The impact of time perspective on 
the processing of temporal information entailed in script knowledge appears 
linked to match or mismatch conditions between a strong focus on future outcomes 
associated with future time perspective and the task of identifying either the 
later (future-oriented) or the earlier (past-oriented) sub-event. Concerning the 
chronotype, evening types process items in which chronological time succession 
is violated (i.e., reversely presented items) more accurately than morning 
types. Indexed by pupillary data, the impact of chronotype may relate to more 
general cognitive abilities. The psychophysiological data derived in this study 
suggests that evening types typically outperform morning types in various 
measures such working memory capacity and verbal intelligence simply because 
they invest more cognitive resources than morning types.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijpsycho.2014.02.004
PMID: 24548429 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


433. Cognition. 2014 May;131(2):195-204. doi: 10.1016/j.cognition.2014.01.006. Epub 
2014 Feb 16.

Leveling the playing field: attention mitigates the effects of intelligence on 
memory.

Markant J(1), Amso D(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cognitive, Linguistic, and Psychological Sciences, Brown 
University, United States. Electronic address: julie_markant@brown.edu.
(2)Department of Cognitive, Linguistic, and Psychological Sciences, Brown 
University, United States.

Effective attention and memory skills are fundamental to typical development and 
essential for achievement during the formal education years. It is critical to 
identify the specific mechanisms linking efficiency of attentional selection of 
an item and the quality of its memory retention. The present study capitalized 
on the spatial cueing paradigm to examine the role of selection via suppression 
in modulating children and adolescents' memory encoding. By varying a single 
parameter, the spatial cueing task can elicit either a simple orienting 
mechanism (i.e., facilitation) or one that involves both target selection and 
simultaneous suppression of competing information (i.e., IOR). We modified this 
paradigm to include images of common items in target locations. Participants 
were not instructed to learn the items and were not told they would be 
completing a memory test later. Following the cueing task, we imposed a 7-min 
delay and then asked participants to complete a recognition memory test. Results 
indicated that selection via suppression promoted recognition memory among 
7-17year-olds. Moreover, individual differences in the extent of suppression 
during encoding predicted recognition memory accuracy. When basic cueing 
facilitated orienting to target items during encoding, IQ was the best predictor 
of recognition memory performance for the attended items. In contrast, engaging 
suppression (i.e., IOR) during encoding counteracted individual differences in 
intelligence, effectively improving recognition memory performance among 
children with lower IQs. This work demonstrates that engaging selection via 
suppression during learning and encoding improves memory retention and has broad 
implications for developing effective educational techniques.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cognition.2014.01.006
PMCID: PMC3963827
PMID: 24549142 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


434. Front Psychol. 2014 Feb 3;5:36. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.00036. eCollection 2014.

The grit effect: predicting retention in the military, the workplace, school and 
marriage.

Eskreis-Winkler L(1), Shulman EP(1), Beal SA(2), Duckworth AL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(2)Fort Bragg Research Element, U.S. Army Research Institute Fort Belvoir, VA, 
USA.

Remaining committed to goals is necessary (albeit not sufficient) to attaining 
them, but very little is known about domain-general individual differences that 
contribute to sustained goal commitment. The current investigation examines the 
association between grit, defined as passion and perseverance for long-term 
goals, other individual difference variables, and retention in four different 
contexts: the military, workplace sales, high school, and marriage. Grit 
predicted retention over and beyond established context-specific predictors of 
retention (e.g., intelligence, physical aptitude, Big Five personality traits, 
job tenure) and demographic variables in each setting. Grittier soldiers were 
more likely to complete an Army Special Operations Forces (ARSOF) selection 
course, grittier sales employees were more likely to keep their jobs, grittier 
students were more likely to graduate from high school, and grittier men were 
more likely to stay married. The relative predictive validity of grit compared 
to other traditional predictors of retention is examined in each of the four 
studies. These findings suggest that in addition to domain-specific influences, 
there may be domain-general individual differences which influence commitment to 
diverse life goals over time.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.00036
PMCID: PMC3910317
PMID: 24550863


435. Front Cell Infect Microbiol. 2014 Jan 31;4:8. doi: 10.3389/fcimb.2014.00008. 
eCollection 2014.

Pathogen intelligence.

Steinert M(1).

Author information:
(1)Institut für Mikrobiologie, Technische Universität Braunschweig Braunschweig, 
Germany.

Different species inhabit different sensory worlds and thus have evolved diverse 
means of processing information, learning and memory. In the escalated arms race 
with host defense, each pathogenic bacterium not only has evolved its individual 
cellular sensing and behavior, but also collective sensing, interbacterial 
communication, distributed information processing, joint decision making, 
dissociative behavior, and the phenotypic and genotypic heterogeneity necessary 
for epidemiologic success. Moreover, pathogenic populations take advantage of 
dormancy strategies and rapid evolutionary speed, which allow them to save 
co-generated intelligent traits in a collective genomic memory. This review 
discusses how these mechanisms add further levels of complexity to bacterial 
pathogenicity and transmission, and how mining for these mechanisms could help 
to develop new anti-infective strategies.

DOI: 10.3389/fcimb.2014.00008
PMCID: PMC3907765
PMID: 24551600 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


436. Water Sci Technol. 2014;69(3):622-7. doi: 10.2166/wst.2013.758.

Risk assessment of sewer condition using artificial intelligence tools: 
application to the SANEST sewer system.

Sousa V(1), Matos JP(1), Almeida N(1), Saldanha Matos J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Civil Engineering, Architecture and GeoResources, Technical 
University of Lisbon - IST, Av. Rovisco Pais 1049-001 Lisbon, Portugal E-mail: 
vitor.sousa@ist.utl.pt.

Operation, maintenance and rehabilitation comprise the main concerns of 
wastewater infrastructure asset management. Given the nature of the service 
provided by a wastewater system and the characteristics of the supporting 
infrastructure, technical issues are relevant to support asset management 
decisions. In particular, in densely urbanized areas served by large, complex 
and aging sewer networks, the sustainability of the infrastructures largely 
depends on the implementation of an efficient asset management system. The 
efficiency of such a system may be enhanced with technical decision support 
tools. This paper describes the role of artificial intelligence tools such as 
artificial neural networks and support vector machines for assisting the 
planning of operation and maintenance activities of wastewater infrastructures. 
A case study of the application of this type of tool to the wastewater 
infrastructures of Sistema de Saneamento da Costa do Estoril is presented.

DOI: 10.2166/wst.2013.758
PMID: 24552736 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


437. Behav Genet. 2014 Mar;44(2):91-6. doi: 10.1007/s10519-014-9644-z. Epub 2014 Feb 
20.

Common genetic variants explain the majority of the correlation between height 
and intelligence: the generation Scotland study.

Marioni RE(1), Batty GD, Hayward C, Kerr SM, Campbell A, Hocking LJ; Generation 
Scotland; Porteous DJ, Visscher PM, Deary IJ.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, University of 
Edinburgh, 7 George Square, Edinburgh, EH8 9JZ, UK, riccardo.marioni@ed.ac.uk.

Greater height and higher intelligence test scores are predictors of better 
health outcomes. Here, we used molecular (single-nucleotide polymorphism) data 
to estimate the genetic correlation between height and general intelligence (g) 
in 6,815 unrelated subjects (median age 57, IQR 49-63) from the Generation 
Scotland: Scottish Family Health Study cohort. The phenotypic correlation 
between height and g was 0.16 (SE 0.01). The genetic correlation between height 
and g was 0.28 (SE 0.09) with a bivariate heritability estimate of 0.71. 
Understanding the molecular basis of the correlation between height and 
intelligence may help explain any shared role in determining health outcomes. 
This study identified a modest genetic correlation between height and 
intelligence with the majority of the phenotypic correlation being explained by 
shared genetic influences.

DOI: 10.1007/s10519-014-9644-z
PMCID: PMC3938855
PMID: 24554214 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


438. Springerplus. 2014 Jan 25;3:52. doi: 10.1186/2193-1801-3-52. eCollection 2014.

Novel pervasive scenarios for home management: the Butlers architecture.

Denti E(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Computer Science and Engineering (DISI), Alma Mater Studiorum - 
Università di Bologna, Viale Risorgimento, 2, Bologna, 40136 Italy.

Many efforts today aim to energy saving, promoting the user's awareness and 
virtuous behavior in a sustainability perspective. Our houses, appliances, 
energy meters and devices are becoming smarter and connected, domotics is 
increasing possibilities in house automation and control, and ambient 
intelligence and assisted living are bringing attention onto people's needs from 
different viewpoints. Our assumption is that considering these aspects together 
allows for novel intriguing possibilities. To this end, in this paper we combine 
home energy management with domotics, coordination technologies, intelligent 
agents, ambient intelligence, ubiquitous technologies and gamification to devise 
novel scenarios, where energy monitoring and management is just the basic brick 
of a much wider and comprehensive home management system. The aim is to control 
home appliances well beyond energy consumption, combining home comfort, 
appliance scheduling, safety constraints, etc. with dynamically-changeable 
users' preferences, goals and priorities. At the same time, usability and 
attractiveness are seen as key success factors: so, the intriguing technologies 
available in most houses and smart devices are exploited to make the system 
configuration and use simpler, entertaining and attractive for users. These 
aspects are also integrated with ubiquitous and pervasive technologies, 
geo-localization, social networks and communities to provide enhanced 
functionalities and support smarter application scenarios, hereby further 
strengthening technology acceptation and diffusion. Accordingly, we first 
analyse the system requirements and define a reference multi-layer architectural 
model - the Butlers architecture - that specifies seven layers of 
functionalities, correlating the requirements, the corresponding technologies 
and the consequent value-added for users in each layer. Then, we outline a set 
of notable scenarios of increasing functionalities and complexity, discuss the 
structure of the corresponding system patterns in terms of the proposed 
architecture, and make this concrete by presenting some comprehensive 
interaction examples as comic strip stories. Next, we discuss the implementation 
requirements and how they can be met with the available technologies, discuss a 
possible architecture, refine it in the concrete case of the TuCSoN coordination 
technology, present a subsystem prototype and discuss its properties in the 
Butlers perspective.

DOI: 10.1186/2193-1801-3-52
PMCID: PMC3922993
PMID: 24555169


439. BMC Bioinformatics. 2014 Feb 20;15:49. doi: 10.1186/1471-2105-15-49.

Gene selection for cancer identification: a decision tree model empowered by 
particle swarm optimization algorithm.

Chen KH(1), Wang KJ, Tsai ML, Wang KM, Adrian AM, Cheng WC, Yang TS, Teng NC, 
Tan KP, Chang KS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Industrial Management, National Taiwan University of Science 
and Technology, Taipei 106, Taiwan, R,O,C. khchen@mail.ntust.edu.tw.

BACKGROUND: In the application of microarray data, how to select a small number 
of informative genes from thousands of genes that may contribute to the 
occurrence of cancers is an important issue. Many researchers use various 
computational intelligence methods to analyzed gene expression data.
RESULTS: To achieve efficient gene selection from thousands of candidate genes 
that can contribute in identifying cancers, this study aims at developing a 
novel method utilizing particle swarm optimization combined with a decision tree 
as the classifier. This study also compares the performance of our proposed 
method with other well-known benchmark classification methods (support vector 
machine, self-organizing map, back propagation neural network, C4.5 decision 
tree, Naive Bayes, CART decision tree, and artificial immune recognition system) 
and conducts experiments on 11 gene expression cancer datasets.
CONCLUSION: Based on statistical analysis, our proposed method outperforms other 
popular classifiers for all test datasets, and is compatible to SVM for certain 
specific datasets. Further, the housekeeping genes with various expression 
patterns and tissue-specific genes are identified. These genes provide a high 
discrimination power on cancer classification.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2105-15-49
PMCID: PMC3944936
PMID: 24555567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


440. J Child Neurol. 2015 Jan;30(1):9-20. doi: 10.1177/0883073813520503. Epub 2014 
Feb 19.

The superior longitudinal fasciculus in typically developing children and 
adolescents: diffusion tensor imaging and neuropsychological correlates.

Urger SE(1), De Bellis MD(2), Hooper SR(3), Woolley DP(4), Chen SD(5), 
Provenzale J(6).

Author information:
(1)Istanbul Cerrahi Hastanesi, Tesvikiye mahallesi, Istanbul, Turkey.
(2)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Duke University Medical 
School, Durham, NC, USA michael.debellis@duke.edu.
(3)Department of Psychiatry and The Carolina Institute for Developmental 
Disabilities, University of North Carolina School of Medicine, Chapel Hill, NC, 
USA.
(4)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Duke University Medical 
School, Durham, NC, USA.
(5)Department of Radiology, Duke University Medical School, Durham, NC, USA.
(6)Department of Radiology, Duke University Medical School, Durham, NC, USA 
Departments of Radiology and Imaging Sciences, Oncology and Biomedical 
Engineering, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA, USA.

The relationship between superior longitudinal fasciculus microstructural 
integrity and neuropsychological functions were examined in 49 healthy children 
(range: 5-17 years) using diffusion tensor imaging. Seven major cognitive 
domains (intelligence, fine-motor, attention, language, visual-spatial, memory, 
executive function) were assessed. Data analyses used correlational methods. 
After adjusting for age and gender, fractional anisotropy and axial diffusivity 
values in the superior longitudinal fasciculus were positively correlated with 
executive functions of set shifting, whereas left superior longitudinal 
fasciculus fractional anisotropy values correlated with attention and language. 
Apparent diffusion coefficient values in the left superior longitudinal 
fasciculus negatively correlated with inhibitory control. In the left arcuate 
fasciculus, fractional anisotropy correlated with IQ and attention, whereas 
radial diffusivity values negatively correlated with IQ, fine-motor skills, and 
expressive language. Findings from this study provide an examination of the 
relationship between superior longitudinal fasciculus integrity and children's 
neuropsychological abilities that can be useful in monitoring pediatric 
neurologic diseases.

© The Author(s) 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/0883073813520503
PMCID: PMC4138302
PMID: 24556549 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting Interests The authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


441. Epileptic Disord. 2014 Mar;16(1):93-5. doi: 10.1684/epd.2014.0630.

Self-induction seizures in sunflower epilepsy: a video-EEG report.

Belcastro V(1), Striano P(2).

Author information:
(1)Neurology Unit, Department of Neuroscience, Sant' Anna Hospital, Como.
(2)Pediatric Neurology and Muscular Diseases Unit, G. Gaslini Institute, 
University of Genova, Italy.

Seizures triggered by visual stimuli are the most common type of reflex seizure. 
Self-induced seizures produced by stimulation of natural light are rare and 
self-induction is a mode of seizure precipitation employed by either 
intellectually disabled or healthy photosensitive individuals. Absences and 
myoclonic jerks are the most common seizure types in self-induction. We report 
on a girl with normal intelligence who self-induced seizures by waving her 
outspread fingers in front of a bright light. This situation is called sunflower 
epilepsy.

DOI: 10.1684/epd.2014.0630
PMID: 24556582 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


442. Acad Med. 2014 Apr;89(4):638-43. doi: 10.1097/ACM.0000000000000165.

Does emotional intelligence at medical school admission predict future academic 
performance?

Humphrey-Murto S(1), Leddy JJ, Wood TJ, Puddester D, Moineau G.

Author information:
(1)Dr. Humphrey-Murto is associate professor, Department of Medicine, University 
of Ottawa, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada. Dr. Leddy is associate professor, Department 
of Cellular and Molecular Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, University of Ottawa, 
Ottawa, Ontario, Canada. Dr. Wood is a PhD researcher, Academy for Innovation in 
Medical Education, and assistant professor, Department of Medicine, Faculty of 
Medicine, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada. Dr. Puddester is 
associate professor and lead, Postgraduate Evaluation and Innovation, Faculty of 
Medicine, University of Ottawa, and director of physician health, Canadian 
Medical Association, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada. He is also president, Canadian 
Association of Medical Education, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada. Dr. Moineau is 
associate professor, Department of Pediatrics, University of Ottawa, secretary, 
Committee on Accreditation of Canadian Medical Schools and Committee on 
Accreditation of Continuing Medical Education, and president and chief executive 
officer, Association of Faculties of Medicine of Canada, Ottawa, Ontario, 
Canada.

PURPOSE: Medical school admissions committees are increasingly considering 
noncognitive measures like emotional intelligence (EI) in evaluating potential 
applicants. This study explored whether scores on an EI abilities test at 
admissions predicted future academic performance in medical school to determine 
whether EI could be used in making admissions decisions.
METHOD: The authors invited all University of Ottawa medical school applicants 
offered an interview in 2006 and 2007 to complete the Mayer-Salovey-Caruso EI 
Test (MSCEIT) at the time of their interview (105 and 101, respectively), then 
again at matriculation (120 and 106, respectively). To determine predictive 
validity, they correlated MSCEIT scores to scores on written examinations and 
objective structured clinical examinations (OSCEs) administered during the 
four-year program. They also correlated MSCEIT scores to the number of 
nominations for excellence in clinical performance and failures recorded over 
the four years.
RESULTS: The authors found no significant correlations between MSCEIT scores and 
written examination scores or number of failures. The correlations between 
MSCEIT scores and total OSCE scores ranged from 0.01 to 0.35; only MSCEIT scores 
at matriculation and OSCE year 4 scores for the 2007 cohort were significantly 
correlated. Correlations between MSCEIT scores and clinical nominations were low 
(range 0.12-0.28); only the correlation between MSCEIT scores at matriculation 
and number of clinical nominations for the 2007 cohort were statistically 
significant.
CONCLUSIONS: EI, as measured by an abilities test at admissions, does not appear 
to reliably predict future academic performance. Future studies should define 
the role of EI in admissions decisions.

DOI: 10.1097/ACM.0000000000000165
PMCID: PMC4885573
PMID: 24556771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Other disclosures: None reported.


443. AJNR Am J Neuroradiol. 2014 Jun;35(6):1150-6. doi: 10.3174/ajnr.A3850. Epub 2014 
Feb 20.

Association between resting-state coactivation in the parieto-frontal network 
and intelligence during late childhood and adolescence.

Li C(1), Tian L(2).

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Biomedical Engineering, School of Computer and 
Information Technology, Beijing Jiaotong University, Beijing, China.
(2)From the Department of Biomedical Engineering, School of Computer and 
Information Technology, Beijing Jiaotong University, Beijing, China. 
lxtian@bjtu.edu.cn tian.bme@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: A number of studies have associated the adult 
intelligence quotient with the structure and function of the bilateral 
parieto-frontal networks, whereas the relationship between intelligence quotient 
and parieto-frontal network function has been found to be relatively weak in 
early childhood. Because both human intelligence and brain function undergo 
protracted development into adulthood, the purpose of the present study was to 
provide a better understanding of the development of the parieto-frontal 
network-intelligence quotient relationship.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We performed independent component analysis of 
resting-state fMRI data of 84 children and 50 adolescents separately and then 
correlated full-scale intelligence quotient with the spatial maps of the 
bilateral parieto-frontal networks of each group.
RESULTS: In children, significant positive spatial-map versus intelligence 
quotient correlations were detected in the right angular gyrus and inferior 
frontal gyrus in the right parieto-frontal network, and no significant 
correlation was observed in the left parieto-frontal network. In adolescents, 
significant positive correlation was detected in the left inferior frontal gyrus 
in the left parieto-frontal network, and the correlations in the frontal pole in 
the 2 parieto-frontal networks were only marginally significant.
CONCLUSIONS: The present findings not only support the critical role of the 
parieto-frontal networks for intelligence but indicate that the relationship 
between intelligence quotient and the parieto-frontal network in the right 
hemisphere has been well established in late childhood, and that the 
relationship in the left hemisphere was also established in adolescence.

© 2014 by American Journal of Neuroradiology.

DOI: 10.3174/ajnr.A3850
PMCID: PMC7965155
PMID: 24557703 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


444. PLoS One. 2014 Feb 18;9(2):e88477. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0088477. 
eCollection 2014.

In-utero exposure to bereavement and offspring IQ: a Danish national cohort 
study.

Virk J(1), Obel C(2), Li J(3), Olsen J(3).

Author information:
(1)UCLA/Fielding School of Public Health, Department of Epidemiology, University 
of California Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California, United States of America.
(2)Section for General practice, Department of Public Health, Aarhus University, 
Aarhus, Denmark.
(3)Section for Epidemiology, Department of Public Health, Aarhus University, 
Aarhus, Denmark.

BACKGROUND: Intelligence is a life-long trait that has strong influences on 
lifestyle, adult morbidity and life expectancy. Hence, lower cognitive abilities 
are therefore of public health interest. Our primary aim was to examine if 
prenatal bereavement measured as exposure to death of a close family member is 
associated with the intelligence quotient (IQ) scores at 18-years of age of 
adult Danish males completing a military cognitive screening examination.
METHODS: We extracted records for the Danish military screening test and found 
kinship links with biological parents, siblings, and maternal grandparents using 
the Danish Civil Registration System (N = 167,900). The prenatal exposure period 
was defined as 12 months before conception until birth of the child. We 
categorized children as exposed in utero to severe stress (bereavement) during 
prenatal life if their mothers lost an elder child, husband, parent or sibling 
during the prenatal period; the remaining children were included in the 
unexposed cohort. Mean score estimates were adjusted for maternal and paternal 
age at birth, residence, income, maternal education, gestational age at birth 
and birth weight.
RESULTS: When exposure was due to death of a father the offsprings' mean IQ 
scores were lower among men completing the military recruitment exam compared to 
their unexposed counterparts, adjusted difference of 6.5 standard IQ points 
(p-value = 0.01). We did not observe a clinically significant association 
between exposure to prenatal maternal bereavement caused by death of a sibling, 
maternal uncle/aunt or maternal grandparent even after stratifying deaths only 
due to traumatic events.
CONCLUSION: We found maternal bereavement to be adversely associated with IQ in 
male offspring, which could be related to prenatal stress exposure though more 
likely is due to changes in family conditions after death of the father. This 
finding supports other literature on maternal adversity during fetal life and 
cognitive development in the offspring.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0088477
PMCID: PMC3928249
PMID: 24558394 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


445. PLoS One. 2014 Feb 18;9(2):e88969. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0088969. 
eCollection 2014.

Early life socioeconomic circumstance and late life brain hyperintensities--a 
population based cohort study.

Murray AD(1), McNeil CJ(1), Salarirad S(1), Whalley LJ(1), Staff RT(2).

Author information:
(1)Aberdeen Biomedical Imaging Centre, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, United 
Kingdom.
(2)Aberdeen Biomedical Imaging Centre, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, United 
Kingdom ; Department of Nuclear Medicine, NHS Grampian, Aberdeen, United 
Kingdom.

CONTEXT: There have been many reports confirming the association between lower 
childhood socioeconomic circumstance and cardiovascular disease but evidence for 
links with cerebrovascular disease is contradictory. Hyperintensities on brain 
magnetic resonance imaging are associated with vascular risk factors, cognitive 
decline, dementia and death. However, the relationship between childhood 
socioeconomic circumstance and these lesions is unclear.
OBJECTIVE: To test the hypothesis that childhood socioeconomic circumstance is 
associated with late life hyperintensity burden and that neither adult 
socioeconomic circumstance nor change in socioeconomic circumstance during life 
influence this effect.
DESIGN: Cohort study.
SETTING: Community.
PARTICIPANTS: 227 community dwelling members of the 1936 Aberdeen Birth Cohort 
aged 68 years, who were free from dementia.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Relationship between early life socioeconomic 
circumstance (paternal occupation) and abundance of late life brain 
hyperintensities.
RESULTS: We find significant negative correlations between childhood 
socioeconomic circumstance and white matter hyperintensities (ρ = -0.18, 
P<0.01), and periventricular hyperintensities (ρ = -0.15, P<0.05), between 
educational attainment and white matter hyperintensities (ρ = -0.15, P<0.05) and 
periventricular hyperintensities (ρ = -0.17, P<0.05), and between childhood 
intelligence and periventricular hyperintensities (ρ = -0.14, P<0.05). The 
relationship is strongest for childhood socioeconomic circumstance and regional 
white matter hyperintensities, where there is a step change in increased burden 
from paternal occupation grades equivalent to a shift from "white collar" to 
"blue collar" paternal occupation. Significant correlations were also found 
between hypertension and hyperintensity burden in all brain regions 
(ρ = 0.15-0.24, P<0.05). In models that include hypertension, the magnitude of 
the effect of childhood socioeconomic circumstance is similar to and independent 
from that of hypertension.
CONCLUSIONS: Childhood socioeconomic circumstance predicts the burden of brain 
white matter hyperintensities aged 68 years. The mechanism underlying this 
effect is unknown, but may act through fetal and/or early life programming of 
cerebrovascular disease. Future work to understand this vulnerability will 
inform strategies to reduce dementia and stroke.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0088969
PMCID: PMC3928340
PMID: 24558456 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


446. J Neurosurg Pediatr. 2014 Apr;13(4):375-9. doi: 10.3171/2014.1.PEDS13425. Epub 
2014 Feb 21.

Monoamine metabolites in ventricular CSF of children with posterior fossa 
tumors: correlation with tumor histology and cognitive functioning.

Varela M(1), Alexiou GA, Liakopoulou M, Papakonstantinou E, Pitsouni D, 
Alevizopoulos GA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery.

OBJECT: The biogenic amines (dopamine, epinephrine, norepinephrine, and 
serotonin) are involved in the regulation of multiple neuronal functions, and 
changes in monoamine concentrations in the CSF have been detected in several 
disorders. The aim of the present study was to investigate the role of biogenic 
amines in the ventricular CSF of children suffering from posterior fossa tumors 
and their possible correlation with tumor histology and cognitive functioning.
METHODS: Twenty-two children with posterior fossa tumors who were treated 
surgically at Children's Hospital "Agia Sofia" were studied. Patients ranged in 
age from 5.5 to 15 years. The study population included patients who suffered 
from hydrocephalus and were treated by ventriculoperitoneal shunt placement. 
During the operation for shunt placement, a CSF sample was obtained for the 
assessment of 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol (MHPG), homovanillic acid (HVA), 
and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA). Simultaneously, a blood sample was also 
obtained for assessment of the same metabolites in the serum. The concentration 
of vanillylmandelic acid (VMA) was evaluated in 24-hour urine samples in 11 
patients. Cerebrospinal fluid from a control group of children was also studied. 
Executive functions were assessed using the short form of the Wechsler 
Intelligence Scale for Children (WISC).
RESULTS: Twelve patients suffered from astrocytomas, 9 from medulloblastomas, 
and 1 from an ependymoma. The MHPG concentration in CSF was significantly higher 
in patients with astrocytomas compared with patients with medulloblastomas. 
Twenty-four-hour urine samples of VMA were significantly higher in patients with 
astrocytomas compared with patients with medulloblastomas. The MHPG 
concentration in CSF was negatively correlated with the verbal scale of the WISC 
and there was a trend toward a significant negative correlation with the total 
WISC score. Homovanillic acid in CSF was positively correlated with the 
performance scale of the WISC. There was a significant correlation between HVA 
and MHPG levels in CSF. The CSF concentration of 5-HIAA was significantly 
correlated with the HVA concentration in serum. Twenty-four-hour urine VMA 
samples were statistically significantly correlated with HVA concentration in 
both CSF and serum, with MHPG in CSF, and with 5-HIAA in serum.
CONCLUSIONS: This study showed that children with posterior fossa tumors have 
differences in the levels of monoamine metabolites in CSF. Further studies with 
a larger number of patients are obviously needed to verify these observations as 
well as studies to correlate the monoamine metabolite levels with the 
neuropsychological and behavioral findings in children with posterior fossa 
tumors.

DOI: 10.3171/2014.1.PEDS13425
PMID: 24559277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


447. Compr Psychiatry. 2014 May;55(4):912-9. doi: 10.1016/j.comppsych.2014.01.004. 
Epub 2014 Jan 18.

A longitudinal cohort study of intelligence and later hospitalisation with 
mental disorder.

Mikkelsen SS(1), Flensborg-Madsen T(2), Eliasen M(3), Mortensen EL(4).

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Public Health, University of Southern Denmark, Øster 
Farimagsgade 5, 2, 1353 Copenhagen K, Denmark. Electronic address: smik@niph.dk.
(2)Unit of Medical Psychology, Institute of Public Health, University of 
Copenhagen, Øster Farimagsgade 5, 15, 1353 Copenhagen K, Denmark.
(3)National Institute of Public Health, University of Southern Denmark, Øster 
Farimagsgade 5, 2, 1353 Copenhagen K, Denmark.
(4)Unit of Medical Psychology, Institute of Public Health, University of 
Copenhagen, Øster Farimagsgade 5, 15, 1353 Copenhagen K, Denmark; Center for 
Healthy Aging, University of Copenhagen, Denmark; Institute of Preventive 
Medicine, Bispebjerg Hospital, Capital Region of Denmark.

OBJECTIVE: Few studies on the associations between pre-morbid IQ and mental 
disorders are based on comprehensive assessment of intelligence in both women 
and men and include a wide range of confounding variables. Thus, the objective 
of the present study was to examine the association between pre-morbid IQ and 
hospitalisation with any mental disorder, including possible gender differences 
in the association.
METHODS: The study population was born in 1959-61 and premorbid IQ was assessed 
with the WAIS between 1982 and 1994. Information on mental disorders was 
obtained from Danish hospital registers with a mean follow-up interval of 
21.1years. A total of 1106 participants were analysed.
RESULTS: Those with a mental disorder had a significantly lower mean pre-morbid 
IQ score than those without. For women, the adjusted IQ difference was 8.5 
points, and for men it was 5.1 points. A decrease of one standard deviation in 
pre-morbid IQ was associated with 83% greater risk of developing a mental 
disorder among women (HR=1.83, 95% CI: 1.41-2.36), and 36% among men (HR=1.36, 
95% CI: 1.07-1.73). The interaction between gender and IQ was not statistically 
significant. Associations did not differ noteworthy between verbal and 
non-verbal IQ.
CONCLUSIONS: Pre-morbid IQ was found to be significantly associated with the 
development of mental disorder.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.comppsych.2014.01.004
PMID: 24559725 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


448. Comput Methods Programs Biomed. 2014 Apr;114(1):50-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.cmpb.2014.01.016. Epub 2014 Jan 31.

Classification of intelligence quotient via brainwave sub-band power ratio 
features and artificial neural network.

Jahidin AH(1), Megat Ali MS(2), Taib MN(2), Tahir NM(2), Yassin IM(2), Lias 
S(2).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Electrical Engineering, Universiti Teknologi MARA, 40450 Shah 
Alam, Selangor, Malaysia. Electronic address: aisyah23@gmail.com.
(2)Faculty of Electrical Engineering, Universiti Teknologi MARA, 40450 Shah 
Alam, Selangor, Malaysia.

This paper elaborates on the novel intelligence assessment method using the 
brainwave sub-band power ratio features. The study focuses only on the left 
hemisphere brainwave in its relaxed state. Distinct intelligence quotient groups 
have been established earlier from the score of the Raven Progressive Matrices. 
Sub-band power ratios are calculated from energy spectral density of theta, 
alpha and beta frequency bands. Synthetic data have been generated to increase 
dataset from 50 to 120. The features are used as input to the artificial neural 
network. Subsequently, the brain behaviour model has been developed using an 
artificial neural network that is trained with optimized learning rate, momentum 
constant and hidden nodes. Findings indicate that the distinct intelligence 
quotient groups can be classified from the brainwave sub-band power ratios with 
100% training and 88.89% testing accuracies.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cmpb.2014.01.016
PMID: 24560277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


449. Cortex. 2014 Apr;53(100):34-44. doi: 10.1016/j.cortex.2013.12.012. Epub 2013 Dec 
31.

Quantitative multi-modal MRI of the Hippocampus and cognitive ability in 
community-dwelling older subjects.

Aribisala BS(1), Royle NA(2), Maniega SM(2), Valdés Hernández MC(2), Murray 
C(3), Penke L(4), Gow A(5), Starr JM(6), Bastin ME(2), Deary IJ(3), Wardlaw 
JM(7).

Author information:
(1)Brain Research Imaging Centre, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK; Centre 
for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, University of Edinburgh, 
Edinburgh, UK; Scottish Imaging Network, A Platform for Scientific Excellence 
(SINAPSE), Edinburgh, UK; Department of Computer Science, Lagos State 
University, Lagos, Nigeria.
(2)Brain Research Imaging Centre, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK; Centre 
for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, University of Edinburgh, 
Edinburgh, UK; Scottish Imaging Network, A Platform for Scientific Excellence 
(SINAPSE), Edinburgh, UK.
(3)Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, University of 
Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK; Department of Psychology, University of Edinburgh, 
Edinburgh, UK.
(4)Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, University of 
Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK; Scottish Imaging Network, A Platform for Scientific 
Excellence (SINAPSE), Edinburgh, UK; Institute of Psychology, Georg August 
University Göttingen, Göttingen, Germany.
(5)Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, University of 
Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK; Psychology, School of Life Sciences, Herriot-Watt 
University, Edinburgh, UK.
(6)Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, University of 
Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK; Geriatric Medicine Unit, University of Edinburgh, 
Edinburgh, UK.
(7)Brain Research Imaging Centre, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK; Centre 
for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, University of Edinburgh, 
Edinburgh, UK; Scottish Imaging Network, A Platform for Scientific Excellence 
(SINAPSE), Edinburgh, UK. Electronic address: joanna.wardlaw@ed.ac.uk.

Hippocampal structural integrity is commonly quantified using volumetric 
measurements derived from brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Previously 
reported associations with cognitive decline have not been consistent. We 
investigate hippocampal integrity using quantitative MRI techniques and its 
association with cognitive abilities in older age. Participants from the Lothian 
Birth Cohort 1936 underwent brain MRI at mean age 73 years. Longitudinal 
relaxation time (T1), magnetization transfer ratio (MTR), fractional anisotropy 
(FA) and mean diffusivity (MD) were measured in the hippocampus. General factors 
of fluid-type intelligence (g), cognitive processing speed (speed) and memory 
were obtained at age 73 years, as well as childhood IQ test results at age 11 
years. Amongst 565 older adults, multivariate linear regression showed that, 
after correcting for ICV, gender and age 11 IQ, larger left hippocampal volume 
was significantly associated with better memory ability (β = .11, p = .003), but 
not with speed or g. Using quantitative MRI and after correcting for multiple 
testing, higher T1 and MD were significantly associated with lower scores of g 
(β range = -.11 to -.14, p < .001), speed (β range = -.15 to -.20, p < .001) and 
memory (β range = -.10 to -.12, p < .001). Higher MTR and FA in the hippocampus 
were also significantly associated with higher scores of g (β range = .17 to 
.18, p < .0001) and speed (β range = .10 to .15, p < .0001), but not memory. 
Quantitative multi-modal MRI assessments were more sensitive at detecting 
cognition-hippocampal integrity associations than volumetric measurements, 
resulting in stronger associations between MRI biomarkers and age-related 
cognition changes.

Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cortex.2013.12.012
PMCID: PMC3979658
PMID: 24561387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


450. Curr Opin Neurol. 2014 Apr;27(2):168-75. doi: 10.1097/WCO.0000000000000073.

New imaging approaches to evaluate newborn brain injury and their role in 
predicting developmental disorders.

Counsell SJ(1), Ball G, Edwards AD.

Author information:
(1)Division of Imaging Sciences & Biomedical Engineering, Centre for the 
Developing Brain, King's College London, UK.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: This review highlights recent work using advanced imaging 
approaches that have improved our understanding of the underlying neural 
mechanisms associated with disrupted brain development or demonstrated the 
potential of MRI to provide objective biomarkers of cerebral injury that relate 
to subsequent neurodevelopmental performance.
RECENT FINDINGS: Preterm birth impacts on the development of thalamocortical 
connections to inferior frontal and medial temporal cortex, and cingulate gyri. 
Impairments to cortical development in these regions are evident in early 
adulthood and associated with lower intelligence quotient scores. Disruptions to 
microstructural development of cortical gray matter are prevalent in survivors 
of preterm birth and related to immaturity at birth, postnatal growth and 
neurodevelopmental performance. Brain dysmaturation is also evident in infants 
with congenital heart disease and is detectable prior to surgery, highlighting 
the influence of adverse conditions on in-utero brain development. In infants 
with hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy who have undergone therapeutic hypothermia, 
quantitative magnetic resonance measures in the neonatal period are related to 
performance at 2 years.
SUMMARY: Advanced MRI approaches offer the opportunity to assess objectively 
brain structure and function, and a number of studies, spanning different 
patient groups, demonstrate their utility as early biomarkers of altered 
neurological outcome.

DOI: 10.1097/WCO.0000000000000073
PMID: 24561870 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


451. Neurology. 2014 Apr 1;82(13):1162-6. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000000267. Epub 
2014 Feb 21.

Rolandic epilepsy has little effect on adult life 30 years later: a 
population-based study.

Camfield CS(1), Camfield PR.

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Pediatrics, Dalhousie University and the IWK Health 
Centre, Halifax, Canada.

OBJECTIVE: To establish the adult social outcome for childhood-onset rolandic 
epilepsy.
METHODS: Patients with medication-treated rolandic epilepsy were identified from 
the Nova Scotia prospective population-based cohort of childhood-onset epilepsy. 
Epilepsy onset was in 1977-1985 and follow-up was in 2010-2013 with chart review 
plus structured telephone interview for those older than 21 years.
RESULTS: Forty-two children developed rolandic epilepsy (6% of 692 incident 
epilepsy cases in the cohort). Thirty-two (76%) were contacted when they were 
older than 21 years. Epilepsy onset averaged 7.7 ± 2.3 years, follow-up 29.5 ± 
2.8 years, and final age 37 ± 3.4 years. All had epilepsy remission and were off 
antiepileptic drug treatment for 21.4 ± 6.6 years. There were 2 minor injuries 
from seizures and only 1 death (from a snowmobile accident). Overall, 41% had ≥ 
1 of 7 adverse social outcomes, 6 had 1, 4 had 2, and 3 had ≥ 3. These were 
failure to complete high school (n = 7), pregnancy outside of a stable 
relationship (<6 months) (n = 7), depression or other psychiatric diagnosis (n = 
3), unemployment (n = 1), living alone (n = 5), never in a romantic relationship 
>3 months (n = 1), and poverty (n = 2). Those who did not complete high school 
were more likely to have parents with low academic achievement and/or low income 
(p < 0.02). By comparison, rates of ≥ 1 adverse social outcomes for other 
epilepsies with normal intelligence from this cohort varied from 62% to 76%.
CONCLUSIONS: The adult social outcome for children with rolandic epilepsy is 
remarkably better than for those with other major epilepsies and normal 
intelligence.

DOI: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000000267
PMID: 24562059 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


452. J Child Neurol. 2014 Oct;29(10):1349-55. doi: 10.1177/0883073813520495. Epub 
2014 Feb 21.

The prediction of later neurodevelopmental status of preterm infants at ages 7 
to 10 years using the Bayley Infant Neurodevelopmental Screener.

Soysal AS(1), Gucuyener K(2), Ergenekon E(3), Turan Ö(4), Koc E(3), Turkyılmaz 
C(3), Önal E(3), Atalay Y(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Neurology, Gazi University, Medical Faculty, Ankara, 
Turkey asebnemsoysal@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Pediatric Neurology, Gazi University, Medical Faculty, Ankara, 
Turkey.
(3)Department of Pediatric Neonatology, Gazi University, Medical Faculty, 
Ankara, Turkey.
(4)Ok Meydanı Education and Research Hospital, İstanbul, Turkey.

The aim of this study was to see whether the scores of the Bayley Infant 
Neurodevelopmental Screener of 45 high-risk preterm infants (gestational age 
26-37 wk) between the ages of 3 and 24 months predicted neurodevelopmental 
status at 7 to 10 years of age. Neurodevelopmental status of 45/122 preterm 
infants, grouped according to their gestational ages of 26 to 29, 30 to 32, and 
33 to 37 weeks, were previously evaluated by Bayley Infant Neurodevelopmental 
Screener. The scores were categorized as low or high-moderate. Verbal and 
performance scores of Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children-Revised (WISC-R) 
of those patients were assessed between 7 and 10 years. The patients with 
high-moderate-risk scores of Bayley Infant Neurodevelopmental Screener at all 
times, regardless of their gestational age, had lower performance, verbal, and 
total scores of WISC-R than those of who had low Bayley Infant 
Neurodevelopmental Screener risk scores. High-moderate risk score of Bayley 
Infant Neurodevelopmental Screener at 7 to 10, and 16 to 20 months, of all 
patients especially showed good prediction for identifying lower verbal and 
performance scales. For 7 to 10 months, verbal scale: positive predictive value 
= 92.3%, negative predictive value = 44.4%, sensitivity = 70.58%, and 
specificity = 80%; performance scale: positive predictive value = 100%, negative 
predictive value = 30%, sensitivity = 68.18%, and specificity = 100%. For 16 to 
20 months, verbal scale: positive predictive value = 90%, negative predictive 
value = 37.5%, sensitivity = 64.3%, and specificity = 80%; performance scale: 
positive predictive value = 90%, negative predictive value = 12.5%, sensitivity 
= 56.3%, and specificity = 50%. Bayley Infant Neurodevelopmental Screener shows 
good prediction of later verbal and performance scores of Wechsler Intelligence 
Scale-Revised for Children as early as 7 to 10 months, which gives us the 
opportunity to start early intervention.

© The Author(s) 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/0883073813520495
PMID: 24563478 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


453. Wei Sheng Yan Jiu. 2014 Jan;43(1):133-8.

[Meta-analysis on the relationship between Chinese children's intelligence and 
excessive iodine].

[Article in Chinese]

Ren S(1), Zhong Z(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health and Health Management, Chongqing Medical University, 
Chongqing 400016, China. rss44@sina.com
(2)School of Public Health and Health Management, Chongqing Medical University, 
Chongqing 400016, China.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the relationship between Chinese children's intelligence 
and excessive iodine.
METHODS: A computerized literature search was carried out to collect articles 
published before 2013. The study type was controlled experimental design. And 
then the statistical analysis was conducted by using RevMan 5.0 software.
RESULTS: A total of 20 controlled studies were included in Meta-analysis. The 
results showed that iodine content in 601 -900 microg/L (MD = -2.00, 95% CI 
-3.97, -0.03) and greater than 900 microg/L (MD = -2.77, 95% CI -4.02, -1.52) 
would reduce the intellectual level of children. Iodine content in 150-300 
microg/L (MD = 0.33, 95% CI -0.76, 1.42) and 301-600 microg/L (MD = -1.09, 95% 
CI -4.80, 2.63) had not statistically significant. The results of dose-response 
analysis revealed that the possibility of lower intelligence would increase by 
57% (OR = 1.57, 95% CI 1.36, 1.78) when there was an increase of 200 microg/L in 
iodine content.
CONCLUSION: Iodine content that was greater than 600 microg/L would reduce the 
intellectual level of children.

PMID: 24564126 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


454. BMC Bioinformatics. 2014;15 Suppl 1(Suppl 1):S15. doi: 
10.1186/1471-2105-15-S1-S15. Epub 2014 Jan 10.

Development and tuning of an original search engine for patent libraries in 
medicinal chemistry.

Pasche E, Gobeill J, Kreim O, Oezdemir-Zaech F, Vachon T, Lovis C, Ruch P.

BACKGROUND: The large increase in the size of patent collections has led to the 
need of efficient search strategies. But the development of advanced text-mining 
applications dedicated to patents of the biomedical field remains rare, in 
particular to address the needs of the pharmaceutical & biotech industry, which 
intensively uses patent libraries for competitive intelligence and drug 
development.
METHODS: We describe here the development of an advanced retrieval engine to 
search information in patent collections in the field of medicinal chemistry. We 
investigate and combine different strategies and evaluate their respective 
impact on the performance of the search engine applied to various search tasks, 
which covers the putatively most frequent search behaviours of intellectual 
property officers in medical chemistry: 1) a prior art search task; 2) a 
technical survey task; and 3) a variant of the technical survey task, sometimes 
called known-item search task, where a single patent is targeted.
RESULTS: The optimal tuning of our engine resulted in a top-precision of 6.76% 
for the prior art search task, 23.28% for the technical survey task and 46.02% 
for the variant of the technical survey task. We observed that co-citation 
boosting was an appropriate strategy to improve prior art search tasks, while 
IPC classification of queries was improving retrieval effectiveness for 
technical survey tasks. Surprisingly, the use of the full body of the patent was 
always detrimental for search effectiveness. It was also observed that 
normalizing biomedical entities using curated dictionaries had simply no impact 
on the search tasks we evaluate. The search engine was finally implemented as a 
web-application within Novartis Pharma. The application is briefly described in 
the report.
CONCLUSIONS: We have presented the development of a search engine dedicated to 
patent search, based on state of the art methods applied to patent corpora. We 
have shown that a proper tuning of the system to adapt to the various search 
tasks clearly increases the effectiveness of the system. We conclude that 
different search tasks demand different information retrieval engines' settings 
in order to yield optimal end-user retrieval.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2105-15-S1-S15
PMCID: PMC4015144
PMID: 24564220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


455. Sci Rep. 2014 Feb 25;4:4176. doi: 10.1038/srep04176.

A systems biology approach to identify intelligence quotient score-related 
genomic regions, and pathways relevant to potential therapeutic treatments.

Zhao M(1), Kong L(1), Qu H(2).

Author information:
(1)1] Center for Bioinformatics, State Key Laboratory of Protein and Plant Gene 
Research, College of Life Sciences, Peking University, Beijing 100871, P.R. 
China [2].
(2)Center for Bioinformatics, State Key Laboratory of Protein and Plant Gene 
Research, College of Life Sciences, Peking University, Beijing 100871, P.R. 
China.

Although the intelligence quotient (IQ) is the most popular intelligence test in 
the world, little is known about the underlying biological mechanisms that lead 
to the differences in human. To improve our understanding of cognitive processes 
and identify potential biomarkers, we conducted a comprehensive investigation of 
158 IQ-related genes selected from the literature. A genomic distribution 
analysis demonstrated that IQ-related genes were enriched in seven regions of 
chromosome 7 and the X chromosome. In addition, these genes were enriched in 
target lists of seven transcription factors and sixteen microRNAs. Using a 
network-based approach, we further reconstructed an IQ-related pathway from 
known human pathway interaction data. Based on this reconstructed pathway, we 
incorporated enriched drugs and described the importance of dopamine and 
norepinephrine systems in IQ-related biological process. These findings not only 
reveal several testable genes and processes related to IQ scores, but also have 
potential therapeutic implications for IQ-related mental disorders.

DOI: 10.1038/srep04176
PMCID: PMC3933868
PMID: 24566931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


456. Int J Epidemiol. 2014 Jun;43(3):783-92. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyu030. Epub 2014 Feb 
24.

Maternal prepregnancy obesity and child neurodevelopment in the Collaborative 
Perinatal Project.

Huang L(1), Yu X(2), Keim S(2), Li L(2), Zhang L(2), Zhang J(3).

Author information:
(1)MOE-Shanghai Key Laboratory of Children's Environmental Health and Department 
of Pediatrics, Xinhua Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of 
Medicine, Shanghai, China, Research Institute at Nationwide Children's Hospital, 
Center for Biobehavioral Health, Columbus, OH, USA and Department of Pediatrics 
and Division of Epidemiology, Ohio State University, Columbus, OH, USA and 
Department of Obstetrics, Xinhua Hospital affiliated to Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University School of Medicine, Shanghai, ChinaMOE-Shanghai Key Laboratory of 
Children's Environmental Health and Department of Pediatrics, Xinhua Hospital, 
Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China, Research 
Institute at Nationwide Children's Hospital, Center for Biobehavioral Health, 
Columbus, OH, USA and Department of Pediatrics and Division of Epidemiology, 
Ohio State University, Columbus, OH, USA and Department of Obstetrics, Xinhua 
Hospital affiliated to Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, 
Shanghai, China.
(2)MOE-Shanghai Key Laboratory of Children's Environmental Health and Department 
of Pediatrics, Xinhua Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of 
Medicine, Shanghai, China, Research Institute at Nationwide Children's Hospital, 
Center for Biobehavioral Health, Columbus, OH, USA and Department of Pediatrics 
and Division of Epidemiology, Ohio State University, Columbus, OH, USA and 
Department of Obstetrics, Xinhua Hospital affiliated to Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(3)MOE-Shanghai Key Laboratory of Children's Environmental Health and Department 
of Pediatrics, Xinhua Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of 
Medicine, Shanghai, China, Research Institute at Nationwide Children's Hospital, 
Center for Biobehavioral Health, Columbus, OH, USA and Department of Pediatrics 
and Division of Epidemiology, Ohio State University, Columbus, OH, USA and 
Department of Obstetrics, Xinhua Hospital affiliated to Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China junjimzhang@gmail.com.

OBJECTIVES: To examine the association between maternal prepregnancy weight and 
child neurodevelopment, and the effect of gestational weight gain.
METHODS: Using the U.S. Collaborative Perinatal Project data, 1959-76, a total 
of 30,212 women with a calculable prepregnancy body mass index (BMI) and 
gestational weight gain, and term singleton children followed up for more than 7 
years were included in this study. Intelligence quotient (IQ) was measured at 7 
years of age by Wechsler Intelligence Scales.
RESULTS: Maternal prepregnancy BMI displayed inverted U-shaped associations with 
child IQ after adjustment for maternal age, maternal education levels, maternal 
race, marital status, socioeconomic status, smoking during pregnancy, parity and 
study center. Women with BMI at around 20 kg/m2 appeared to have the highest 
offspring IQ scores. After controlling for familial factors in the siblings' 
sample, maternal obesity (BMI≥30.0 kg/m2) was associated with lower Full-scale 
IQ (adjusted ß=-2.0, 95% confidence interval -3.5 to -0.5), and Verbal scale IQ 
(adjusted ß=-2.5, 95% confidence interval -4.0 to -1.0), using BMI of 
18.5-24.9 kg/m2 as the reference category. Compared with children born to 
normal-weight women who gained 21-25 lb. during pregnancy, those born to obese 
women who gained more than 40 lb. had 6.5 points deficit in IQ after adjustment 
for potential confounders.
CONCLUSIONS: Maternal prepregnancy obesity was associated with lower child IQ, 
and excessive weight gain accelerated the association. With obesity rising 
steadily, these results appear to raise serious public health concerns.

© The Author 2014; all rights reserved. Published by Oxford University Press on 
behalf of the International Epidemiological Association.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyu030
PMID: 24569381 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


457. Acta Psychiatr Scand. 2014 Sep;130(3):214-26. doi: 10.1111/acps.12258. Epub 2014 
Feb 26.

Obsessive-compulsive symptoms in at-risk mental states for psychosis: 
associations with clinical impairment and cognitive function.

Zink M(1), Schirmbeck F, Rausch F, Eifler S, Elkin H, Solojenkina X, Englisch S, 
Wagner M, Maier W, Lautenschlager M, Heinz A, Gudlowski Y, Janssen B, Gaebel W, 
Michel TM, Schneider F, Lambert M, Naber D, Juckel G, Krueger-Oezguerdal S, 
Wobrock T, Hasan A, Riedel M, Müller H, Klosterkötter J, Bechdolf A.

Author information:
(1)Central Institute of Mental Health, Medical Faculty Mannheim, Heidelberg 
University, Mannheim, Germany.

OBJECTIVE: Obsessive-compulsive symptoms (OCS) constitute a major comorbidity in 
schizophrenia. Prevalence estimations of OCS for patients with at-risk mental 
states (ARMS) for psychosis vary largely. It is unclear how ARMS patients with 
or without comorbid OCS differ regarding general psychosocial functioning, 
psychotic and affective symptoms and neurocognitive abilities.
METHOD: At-risk mental states patients (n = 233) from the interventional trial 
PREVENT (Secondary Prevention of Schizophrenia) were stratified according to the 
presence or absence of comorbid OCS and compared on several clinical variables.
RESULTS: Patients, who fulfilled the criteria for obsessive-compulsive disorder 
(OCD) or presented with subclinical OCS (ARMSposOCS sample), did not 
significantly differ from patients without OCS (ARMSnegOCS) with regard to 
gender, age, premorbid verbal intelligence and levels of education. Furthermore, 
similar severity of depressive syndromes, basic cognitive, attenuated psychotic 
and brief limited intermittent psychotic symptoms were found. However, 
ARMSposOCS patients showed more impairment of psychosocial functioning and 
higher general psychopathology. In contrast, they scored higher in cognitive 
tasks measuring working memory and immediate verbal memory.
CONCLUSION: Findings extend upon previous results due to the multidimensional 
assessment. Subsequent longitudinal studies might elucidate how comorbid OCS 
influence differential treatment response, especially to cognitive behavioural 
interventions and the transition rates to psychosis.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/acps.12258
PMID: 24571191 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


458. Dev Neuropsychol. 2014;39(2):131-57. doi: 10.1080/87565641.2013.870178.

A review of cognitive outcomes in children following perinatal stroke.

Murias K(1), Brooks B, Kirton A, Iaria G.

Author information:
(1)a Neurolab, Departments of Psychology and Clinical Neurosciences , Hotchkiss 
Brain Institute and Alberta Children's Hospital Research Institute, University 
of Calgary , Calgary , Canada.

Perinatal stroke is a significant cause of congenital neurological disability. 
Although motor deficits and epilepsy are relatively easy to identify, 
developmental and behavioral co-morbidities are more complex and challenging to 
define. We provide an overview of perinatal stroke syndromes and theories 
relating injury in the developing brain to long-term outcomes. We present a 
comprehensive overview of the effects on intelligence and other specific 
cognitive domains, as well as investigations relating clinical features and 
neuroimaging to deficits. Better understanding of the impact of early stroke has 
potential to elucidate processes of brain development, in addition to providing 
guidance for prognosis and rehabilitation.

DOI: 10.1080/87565641.2013.870178
PMID: 24571931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


459. Proc Biol Sci. 2014 Feb 26;281(1781):20140117. doi: 10.1098/rspb.2014.0117. 
Print 2014 Apr 22.

The total burden of rare, non-synonymous exome genetic variants is not 
associated with childhood or late-life cognitive ability.

Marioni RE(1), Penke L, Davies G, Huffman JE, Hayward C, Deary IJ.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, University of 
Edinburgh, , 7 George Square, Edinburgh EH8 9JZ, UK, Department of Psychology, 
University of Edinburgh, , 7 George Square, Edinburgh EH8 9JZ, UK, Institute of 
Psychology, Georg August University Göttingen, , Goßlerstr. 14, Göttingen 37073, 
Germany, Medical Genetics Section, Centre for Genomics and Experimental 
Medicine, Institute of Genetics and Molecular Medicine, University of Edinburgh, 
, Edinburgh EH4 2XU, UK, Medical Research Council Human Genetics Unit, Institute 
of Genetics and Molecular Medicine, University of Edinburgh, , Edinburgh EH4 
2XU, UK.

Human cognitive ability shows consistent, positive associations with fitness 
components across the life-course. Underlying genetic variation should therefore 
be depleted by selection, which is not observed. Genetic variation in general 
cognitive ability (intelligence) could be maintained by a mutation-selection 
balance, with rare variants contributing to its genetic architecture. This study 
examines the association between the total number of rare stop-gain/loss, splice 
and missense exonic variants and cognitive ability in childhood and old age in 
the same individuals. Exome array data were obtained in the Lothian Birth 
Cohorts of 1921 and 1936 (combined N = 1596). General cognitive ability was 
assessed at age 11 years and in late life (79 and 70 years, respectively) and 
was modelled against the total number of stop-gain/loss, splice, and missense 
exonic variants, with minor allele frequency less than or equal to 0.01, using 
linear regression adjusted for age and sex. In both cohorts and in both the 
childhood and late-life models, there were no significant associations between 
rare variant burden in the exome and cognitive ability that survived correction 
for multiple testing. Contrary to our a priori hypothesis, we observed no 
evidence for an association between the total number of rare exonic variants and 
either childhood cognitive ability or late-life cognitive ability.

DOI: 10.1098/rspb.2014.0117
PMCID: PMC3953855
PMID: 24573858 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


460. Drug Test Anal. 2014 Sep;6(9):936-43. doi: 10.1002/dta.1600. Epub 2014 Feb 24.

Factors influencing total carbon dioxide concentrations in plasma of 
thoroughbred and standardbred racehorses.

Sutton GJ(1), Cawley A, Murphy C, Lau ML, Hibbert DB.

Author information:
(1)School of Chemistry, The University of New South Wales, Sydney, NSW, 2052, 
Australia.

Horse racing authorities impose a limit on the concentration of plasma 'total 
carbon dioxide' (TCO2), typically 36 mM with action taken above 37 mM, as 
measured by an electrochemical gas analyzer. It is of interest to understand the 
distribution of TCO2 in a 'normal' population of racehorses and determine 
probabilities of members of this population exceeding these current regulatory 
and action limits. TCO2 levels in equine plasma samples have been modelled for 
12 months (2011-2012) of thoroughbred (3076 measurements) and standardbred (3788 
measurements) data in Australia. The two populations have a common seasonal 
pattern, while the non-seasonal distributions differ. A single Gaussian 
distribution about the seasonal pattern explains the thoroughbred data, but 
there is evidence for a second Gaussian component for the standardbred horses. A 
Gaussian mixture model for standardbred horses gave a main component that 
matched the thoroughbred distribution, which was centred about 30.2 mM, and a 
smaller (about 20 % of the total density) Gaussian centred at 32.3 mM. The 
existence of a second, higher-meaned population of standardbred horses points to 
increased use of alkalinizing salts among a minority of trainers, whom still, 
however, maintain mostly legal levels of TCO2. Identification of this group can 
be used to direct intelligence-based testing with a view to limiting use of 
these products. Probabilities of exceeding limits are affected by seasonality, 
but the current rules remain conservative.

Copyright © 2014 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/dta.1600
PMID: 24574021 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


461. Front Psychol. 2014 Feb 10;5:85. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.00085. eCollection 
2014.

Discrepancies between implicit and explicit self-concepts of intelligence: 
relations to modesty, narcissism, and achievement motivation.

Gerstenberg FX(1), Imhoff R(2), Banse R(3), Schmitt M(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Technische Universität München Munich, Germany.
(2)University of Cologne Cologne, Germany.
(3)University of Bonn Bonn, Germany.
(4)University of Koblenz-Landau Landau, Germany.

Previous research has shown that different configurations of the implicit 
self-concept of intelligence (iSCI) and the explicit self-concept of 
intelligence (eSCI) are consistently related to individuals' performance on 
different intelligence tests (Dislich etal., 2012). The results indicated that 
any discrepant configuration between the iSCI and the eSCI impairs performance. 
In the present study, how correspondence between the iSCI and the eSCI is 
related to intelligence test performance as well as personality traits of 
modesty (low eSCI, high iSCI), narcissism (high eSCI, low iSCI), and achievement 
motivation was investigated. Furthermore, a moderated mediation analysis showed 
that the relation between the iSCI-eSCI configurations and intelligence test 
performance was mediated by achievement motivation for modest individuals.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.00085
PMCID: PMC3918932
PMID: 24575063


462. Front Neurol. 2014 Feb 11;5:16. doi: 10.3389/fneur.2014.00016. eCollection 2014.

Relation of callosal structure to cognitive abilities in temporal lobe epilepsy.

Schneider C(1), Helmstaedter C(2), Luders E(3), Thompson PM(3), Toga AW(3), 
Elger C(2), Weber B(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University Hospital Bonn , Bonn , Germany.
(2)Department of Epileptology, University Hospital Bonn , Bonn , Germany.
(3)Laboratory of Neuro Imaging, Department of Neurology, University of 
California, Los Angeles School of Medicine , Los Angeles, CA , USA.

The main objective of this paper is to analyze the influence of mesial temporal 
lobe epilepsy (mTLE) on the morphology of the corpus callosum (CC) and its 
relation to cognitive abilities. More specifically, we investigated correlations 
between intellectual abilities and callosal morphology, while additionally 
exploring the modulating impact of (a) side of seizure onset (b) age of disease 
onset. For this reason a large representative sample of patients with 
hippocampal sclerosis (n = 79; 35 males; 44 females; age: 18-63 years) with 
disease onset ranging from 0 to 50 years of age, and consisting of 46 left and 
33 right mTLE-patients was recruited. Intelligence was measured using the 
Wechsler-Adult Intelligence Scale Revised. To get localizations of correlations 
with high anatomic precision, callosal morphology was examined using 
computational mesh-based modeling methods, applied to anatomical brain MRI 
scans. Intellectual performance was positively associated with callosal 
thickness in anterior and midcallosal callosal regions, with anterior parts 
being slightly more affected by age of disease onset and side of seizure onset 
than posterior parts. Earlier age at onset of epilepsy was associated with lower 
thickness in anterior and midcallosal regions. In addition, laterality of 
seizure onset had a significant influence on anterior CC morphology, with left 
hemispheric origin having stronger effects. We found that in mTLE, anterior and 
midcallosal CC morphology are related to cognitive performance. The findings 
support recent findings of detrimental effects of early onset mTLE on anterior 
brain regions and of a distinct effect particularly of left mTLE on frontal lobe 
functioning and structure. The causal nature of the relationship remains an open 
question, i.e., whether CC morphology impacts IQ development or whether IQ 
development impacts CC morphology, or both.

DOI: 10.3389/fneur.2014.00016
PMCID: PMC3920113
PMID: 24575078


463. BMC Pediatr. 2014 Feb 27;14:58. doi: 10.1186/1471-2431-14-58.

Associations between preterm birth, small-for-gestational age, and neonatal 
morbidity and cognitive function among school-age children in Nepal.

Christian P(1), Murray-Kolb LE, Tielsch JM, Katz J, LeClerq SC, Khatry SK.

Author information:
(1)Department of International Health, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public 
Health, 615 N, Wolfe St, Room E2541, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA. 
pchristi@jhsph.edu.

BACKGROUND: The long term consequences of low birth weight (LBW), preterm birth, 
small-for-gestational age (SGA, defined as birth weight for given gestational 
age less than the 10th percentile of the reference), and early newborn morbidity 
on functional outcomes are not well described in low income settings.
METHODS: In rural Nepal, we conducted neurocognitive assessment of children (n = 
1927) at 7-9 y of age, for whom birth condition exposures were available. At 
follow-up they were tested on aspects of intellectual, executive, and motor 
function.
RESULTS: The prevalence of LBW (39.6%), preterm birth (21.2%), and SGA (55.4%) 
was high, whereas symptoms of birth asphyxia and sepsis were reported in 6.7% 
and 9.1% of children. In multivariable regression analyses, adjusted for 
confounders, LBW was strongly associated with scores on the Universal Nonverbal 
Intelligence Test (UNIT), tests of executive function, and the Movement 
Assessment Battery for Children (MABC). Preterm was not associated with any of 
the test scores. Conversely, SGA was significantly (all p < 0.005) associated 
with lower UNIT scores (-2.04 SE = 0.39); higher proportion failure on Stroop 
test (0.06, SE = 0.02); and lower scores on the backward digit span test (-0.16, 
SE = 0.04), MABC (0.98, SE = 0.25), and finger tapping test (-0.66, SE = 0.22) 
after adjusting for confounders. Head circumference at birth was strongly and 
significantly associated with all test scores. Neither birth asphyxia nor sepsis 
symptoms were significantly associated with scores on cognitive or motor tests.
CONCLUSION: In this rural South Asian setting, intrauterine growth restriction 
is high and, may have a negative impact on long term cognitive, executive and 
motor function.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2431-14-58
PMCID: PMC3974060
PMID: 24575933 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


464. Physiol Behav. 2014 Apr 22;129:194-8. doi: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2014.02.032. Epub 
2014 Feb 25.

Peripheral interleukin-2 level is associated with negative symptoms and 
cognitive performance in schizophrenia.

Asevedo E(1), Rizzo LB(2), Gadelha A(3), Mansur RB(4), Ota VK(5), Berberian 
AA(6), Scarpato BS(7), Teixeira AL(8), Bressan RA(9), Brietzke E(10).

Author information:
(1)Schizophrenia Program (PROESQ), Department of Psychiatry, Federal University 
of São Paulo, Rua Machado Bittencourt, 222, São Paulo, SP, CEP 04044-000, 
Brazil; Interdisciplinary Laboratory of Clinical Neurosciences (LINC), 
Department of Psychiatry, Federal University of São Paulo, Rua Pedro de Toledo, 
669, Edifício de Pesquisas II, third floor, São Paulo SP, CEP 04039-032, Brazil. 
Electronic address: elsonmed@gmail.com.
(2)Interdisciplinary Laboratory of Clinical Neurosciences (LINC), Department of 
Psychiatry, Federal University of São Paulo, Rua Pedro de Toledo, 669, Edifício 
de Pesquisas II, third floor, São Paulo SP, CEP 04039-032, Brazil. Electronic 
address: lucas-rizzo@hotmail.com.
(3)Schizophrenia Program (PROESQ), Department of Psychiatry, Federal University 
of São Paulo, Rua Machado Bittencourt, 222, São Paulo, SP, CEP 04044-000, 
Brazil; Interdisciplinary Laboratory of Clinical Neurosciences (LINC), 
Department of Psychiatry, Federal University of São Paulo, Rua Pedro de Toledo, 
669, Edifício de Pesquisas II, third floor, São Paulo SP, CEP 04039-032, Brazil. 
Electronic address: aryararipe@gmail.com.
(4)Interdisciplinary Laboratory of Clinical Neurosciences (LINC), Department of 
Psychiatry, Federal University of São Paulo, Rua Pedro de Toledo, 669, Edifício 
de Pesquisas II, third floor, São Paulo SP, CEP 04039-032, Brazil. Electronic 
address: rodrigomansur71@uol.com.br.
(5)Interdisciplinary Laboratory of Clinical Neurosciences (LINC), Department of 
Psychiatry, Federal University of São Paulo, Rua Pedro de Toledo, 669, Edifício 
de Pesquisas II, third floor, São Paulo SP, CEP 04039-032, Brazil. Electronic 
address: vanessakota@gmail.com.
(6)Schizophrenia Program (PROESQ), Department of Psychiatry, Federal University 
of São Paulo, Rua Machado Bittencourt, 222, São Paulo, SP, CEP 04044-000, 
Brazil; Interdisciplinary Laboratory of Clinical Neurosciences (LINC), 
Department of Psychiatry, Federal University of São Paulo, Rua Pedro de Toledo, 
669, Edifício de Pesquisas II, third floor, São Paulo SP, CEP 04039-032, Brazil. 
Electronic address: arthur.berberian@gmail.com.
(7)Interdisciplinary Laboratory of Clinical Neurosciences (LINC), Department of 
Psychiatry, Federal University of São Paulo, Rua Pedro de Toledo, 669, Edifício 
de Pesquisas II, third floor, São Paulo SP, CEP 04039-032, Brazil. Electronic 
address: brunosini@yahoo.com.br.
(8)Translational Psychoneuroimmunology Group, Federal University of Minas 
Gerais, Avenida Antonio Carlos, 6627, Pampulha, Belo Horizonte MG, CEP 
31270-901, Brazil. Electronic address: altexr@gmail.com.
(9)Schizophrenia Program (PROESQ), Department of Psychiatry, Federal University 
of São Paulo, Rua Machado Bittencourt, 222, São Paulo, SP, CEP 04044-000, 
Brazil; Interdisciplinary Laboratory of Clinical Neurosciences (LINC), 
Department of Psychiatry, Federal University of São Paulo, Rua Pedro de Toledo, 
669, Edifício de Pesquisas II, third floor, São Paulo SP, CEP 04039-032, Brazil. 
Electronic address: rodrigoabressan@gmail.com.
(10)Interdisciplinary Laboratory of Clinical Neurosciences (LINC), Department of 
Psychiatry, Federal University of São Paulo, Rua Pedro de Toledo, 669, Edifício 
de Pesquisas II, third floor, São Paulo SP, CEP 04039-032, Brazil. Electronic 
address: elisabrietzke@hotmail.com.

Although several studies have pointed to a possible role of interleukin 2 (IL-2) 
in schizophrenia (SZ), association between IL-2 and the different groups of 
symptoms has not been explored. The objective of this study was to investigate a 
possible correlation of peripheral IL-2 levels with symptoms and cognitive 
performance in patients with SZ. In addition, we compared the plasma levels of 
IL-2 between patients with SZ and healthy controls. Twenty-nine chronically 
medicated outpatients with SZ according to DSM-IV were compared with twenty-six 
healthy controls. The patients were evaluated with the Positive and Negative 
Syndrome Scale (PANSS), the Calgary Depression Scale for Schizophrenia (CDSS), 
the Clinical Global Impression (CGI) and the Global Assessment of Functioning 
(GAF). All the participants had blood collected into EDTA tubes by venipuncture 
between 9:00 and 10:00AM. Plasma concentrations of IL-2 were determined by 
cytometric bead array. A computerized neuropsychological battery assessed verbal 
learning, verbal fluency, working memory, set shifting, executive function, 
inhibition and intelligence. Patients with SZ had lower levels of IL-2 than 
healthy controls (p<0.001). In the SZ group, IL-2 levels were positively 
correlated with scores in the digit span test (rho=0.416, P=0.025) and 
intelligence (rho=0.464, P=0.011). We also found a negative correlation between 
IL-2 and total score in the negative subscale of PANSS (rho=-0.447, p=0.015). 
Our findings suggest that IL-2 may be involved in the mechanisms related to 
cognitive deterioration and negative symptomatology in schizophrenia.

Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2014.02.032
PMID: 24576679 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


465. Am J Psychiatry. 2014 Jun;171(6):627-39. doi: 10.1176/appi.ajp.2013.13070864.

Psychiatric disorders from childhood to adulthood in 22q11.2 deletion syndrome: 
results from the International Consortium on Brain and Behavior in 22q11.2 
Deletion Syndrome.

Schneider M, Debbané M, Bassett AS, Chow EW, Fung WL, van den Bree M, Owen M, 
Murphy KC, Niarchou M, Kates WR, Antshel KM, Fremont W, McDonald-McGinn DM, Gur 
RE, Zackai EH, Vorstman J, Duijff SN, Klaassen PW, Swillen A, Gothelf D, Green 
T, Weizman A, Van Amelsvoort T, Evers L, Boot E, Shashi V, Hooper SR, Bearden 
CE, Jalbrzikowski M, Armando M, Vicari S, Murphy DG, Ousley O, Campbell LE, 
Simon TJ, Eliez S; International Consortium on Brain and Behavior in 22q11.2 
Deletion Syndrome.

OBJECTIVE: Chromosome 22q11.2 deletion syndrome is a neurogenetic disorder 
associated with high rates of schizophrenia and other psychiatric conditions. 
The authors report what is to their knowledge the first large-scale 
collaborative study of rates and sex distributions of psychiatric disorders from 
childhood to adulthood in 22q11.2 deletion syndrome. The associations among 
psychopathology, intellect, and functioning were examined in a subgroup of 
participants.
METHOD: The 1,402 participants with 22q11.2 deletion syndrome, ages 6–68 years, 
were assessed for psychiatric disorders with validated diagnostic instruments. 
Data on intelligence and adaptive functioning were available for 183 
participants ages 6 to 24 years.
RESULTS: Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) was the most frequent 
disorder in children (37.10%) and was overrepresented in males. Anxiety 
disorders were more prevalent than mood disorders at all ages, but especially in 
children and adolescents. Anxiety and unipolar mood disorders were 
overrepresented in females. Psychotic disorders were present in 41% of adults 
over age 25. Males did not predominate in psychotic or autism spectrum 
disorders. Hierarchical regressions in the subgroup revealed that daily living 
skills were predicted by the presence of anxiety disorders. Psychopathology was 
not associated with communication or socialization skills.
CONCLUSIONS: To the authors’ knowledge, this is the largest study of psychiatric 
morbidity in 22q11.2 deletion syndrome. It validates previous findings that this 
condition is one of the strongest risk factors for psychosis. Anxiety and 
developmental disorders were also prevalent. These results highlight the need to 
monitor and reduce the long-term burden of psychopathology in 22q11.2 deletion 
syndrome.

DOI: 10.1176/appi.ajp.2013.13070864
PMCID: PMC4285461
PMID: 24577245 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


466. Sci Rep. 2014 Feb 28;4:4238. doi: 10.1038/srep04238.

The relative ineffectiveness of criminal network disruption.

Duijn PA(1), Kashirin V(2), Sloot PM(3).

Author information:
(1)1] Department of Research and Analysis, Unit The Hague, Dutch Police [2].
(2)1] ITMO University St. Petersburg, Russian Federation, Saint Petersburg, 
Russian Federation [2].
(3)1] ITMO University St. Petersburg, Russian Federation, Saint Petersburg, 
Russian Federation [2] The University of Amsterdam, Faculty of Science, The 
Netherlands [3] Nanyang Technological University, Singapore.

Researchers, policymakers and law enforcement agencies across the globe struggle 
to find effective strategies to control criminal networks. The effectiveness of 
disruption strategies is known to depend on both network topology and network 
resilience. However, as these criminal networks operate in secrecy, data-driven 
knowledge concerning the effectiveness of different criminal network disruption 
strategies is very limited. By combining computational modeling and social 
network analysis with unique criminal network intelligence data from the Dutch 
Police, we discovered, in contrast to common belief, that criminal networks 
might even become 'stronger', after targeted attacks. On the other hand 
increased efficiency within criminal networks decreases its internal security, 
thus offering opportunities for law enforcement agencies to target these 
networks more deliberately. Our results emphasize the importance of criminal 
network interventions at an early stage, before the network gets a chance to 
(re-)organize to maximum resilience. In the end disruption strategies force 
criminal networks to become more exposed, which causes successful network 
disruption to become a long-term effort.

DOI: 10.1038/srep04238
PMCID: PMC3937802
PMID: 24577374 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


467. ScientificWorldJournal. 2014 Jan 21;2014:485205. doi: 10.1155/2014/485205. 
eCollection 2014.

Surface roughness optimization of polyamide-6/nanoclay nanocomposites using 
artificial neural network: genetic algorithm approach.

Moghri M(1), Madic M(2), Omidi M(3), Farahnakian M(4).

Author information:
(1)Islamic Azad University of Kashan, Ghotbe Ravandi Boulevard, Kashan 87159 
98151, Iran.
(2)Faculty of Mechanical Engineering, University of Niš, Niš, Serbia.
(3)Islamic Azad University, Badroud Branch, Badroud, Iran.
(4)Islamic Azad University, Najafabad Branch, Najafabad, Iran.

During the past decade, polymer nanocomposites attracted considerable investment 
in research and development worldwide. One of the key factors that affect the 
quality of polymer nanocomposite products in machining is surface roughness. To 
obtain high quality products and reduce machining costs it is very important to 
determine the optimal machining conditions so as to achieve enhanced machining 
performance. The objective of this paper is to develop a predictive model using 
a combined design of experiments and artificial intelligence approach for 
optimization of surface roughness in milling of polyamide-6 (PA-6) 
nanocomposites. A surface roughness predictive model was developed in terms of 
milling parameters (spindle speed and feed rate) and nanoclay (NC) content using 
artificial neural network (ANN). As the present study deals with relatively 
small number of data obtained from full factorial design, application of genetic 
algorithm (GA) for ANN training is thought to be an appropriate approach for the 
purpose of developing accurate and robust ANN model. In the optimization phase, 
a GA is considered in conjunction with the explicit nonlinear function derived 
from the ANN to determine the optimal milling parameters for minimization of 
surface roughness for each PA-6 nanocomposite.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/485205
PMCID: PMC3918867
PMID: 24578636 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


468. Perspect Psychol Sci. 2014 Mar;9(2):111-25. doi: 10.1177/1745691613518075.

Do People Have Insight Into Their Abilities? A Metasynthesis.

Zell E(1), Krizan Z(2).

Author information:
(1)University of North Carolina at Greensboro e_zell@uncg.edu.
(2)Iowa State University.

Having insight into one's abilities is essential, yet it remains unclear whether 
people generally perceive their skills accurately or inaccurately. In the 
present analysis, we examined the overall correspondence between 
self-evaluations of ability (e.g., academic ability, intelligence, language 
competence, medical skills, sports ability, and vocational skills) and objective 
performance measures (e.g., standardized test scores, grades, and supervisor 
evaluations) across 22 meta-analyses, in addition to considering factors that 
moderate this relationship. Although individual meta-analytic effects ranged 
from .09 to .63, the mean correlation between ability self-evaluations and 
performance outcomes across meta-analyses was moderate (M = .29, SD = .11). 
Further, the relation was stronger when self-evaluations were specific to a 
given domain rather than broad and when performance tasks were objective, 
familiar, or low in complexity. Taken together, these findings indicate that 
people have only moderate insight into their abilities but also underscore the 
contextual factors that enable accurate self-perception of ability.

© The Author(s) 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/1745691613518075
PMID: 26173249


469. Perspect Psychol Sci. 2014 Mar;9(2):211-8. doi: 10.1177/1745691613518074.

A General Theoretical Integrative Model of Individual Differences in Interests, 
Abilities, Personality Traits, and Academic and Occupational Achievement: A 
Commentary on Four Recent Articles.

Schmidt FL(1).

Author information:
(1)Tippie College of Business, University of Iowa frank-schmidt@uiowa.edu.

This commentary integrates the contents of four recent articles on individual 
differences (Nye, Su, Rounds, & Drasgow, 2012; Schmidt, 2011; Valla & Ceci, 
2011; von Stumm, Hell, & Chamorro-Premuzic, 2011) in a causal theoretical model. 
In this model, introversion and fluid intelligence cause interest in general 
learning (intellectual curiosity), which in turn is a major cause of 
crystallized intelligence. Certain specific interests and fluid intelligence 
also contribute to crystallized intelligence. Prenatal testosterone hormone 
conditioning is postulated to cause sex differences in certain specific 
interests but not in others. Crystallized intelligence, specific interests, and 
the personality trait of conscientiousness cause adult academic and occupational 
performance, whereas crystallized intelligence is the main cause of good mental 
functioning at older ages. Research is presented supporting each link in the 
model.

© The Author(s) 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/1745691613518074
PMID: 26173255


470. Wiley Interdiscip Rev Cogn Sci. 2014 Mar;5(2):193-205. doi: 10.1002/wcs.1278. 
Epub 2014 Feb 7.

Game playing.

Rosin CD(1).

Author information:
(1)Parity Computing, Inc., San Diego, CA, USA.

Game playing has been a core domain of artificial intelligence research since 
the beginnings of the field. Game playing provides clearly defined arenas within 
which computational approaches can be readily compared to human expertise 
through head-to-head competition and other benchmarks. Game playing research has 
identified several simple core algorithms that provide successful foundations, 
with development focused on the challenges of defeating human experts in 
specific games. Key developments include minimax search in chess, machine 
learning from self-play in backgammon, and Monte Carlo tree search in Go. These 
approaches have generalized successfully to additional games. While computers 
have surpassed human expertise in a wide variety of games, open challenges 
remain and research focuses on identifying and developing new successful 
algorithmic foundations. WIREs Cogn Sci 2014, 5:193-205. doi: 10.1002/wcs.1278 
CONFLICT OF INTEREST: The author has declared no conflicts of interest for this 
article. For further resources related to this article, please visit the WIREs 
website.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/wcs.1278
PMID: 26304308


471. Dev Med Child Neurol. 2014 Sep;56(9):862-8. doi: 10.1111/dmcn.12404. Epub 2014 
Mar 3.

Visual sensory and perceptive functioning in 5-year-old very 
preterm/very-low-birthweight children.

Geldof CJ(1), Oosterlaan J, Vuijk PJ, de Vries MJ, Kok JH, van 
Wassenaer-Leemhuis AG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Neuropsychology, VU University Amsterdam, Amsterdam, 
the Netherlands; Royal Dutch Visio, Centre of Expertise for Blind and Partially 
Sighted People, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.

AIM: To examine visual sensory and perceptive functions, study their 
interrelations, and explore associations between visual dysfunctions and 
intelligence in very preterm/very-low-birthweight (VP/VLBW) children.
METHOD: One-hundred and sixteen VP/VLBW children (57 males, 59 females; mean 
gestational age 30.1 wks, SD 2.3; mean corrected age 5 y 6 mo, SD 1 mo) and 73 
term-born children (40 males, 33 females; mean gestational age 39.9 wks, SD 1.3; 
mean age 5 y 6 mo, SD 3 mo) completed visual sensory (acuity, visual field, 
contrast-, color-, and stereovision), perceptive (visual coherence, and 
Developmental Test of Visual Perception non-motor scale), and intelligence 
assessments.
RESULTS: Compared with term-born children, VP/VLBW children had reduced acuity 
(d=0.70, p<0.001), inferior visual field (d=0.67, p<0.001), and stereovision 
(v=0.19, p=0.008). VP/VBLW children showed weaker static coherence (d=0.49, 
p=0.001) and Position in Space (d=0.41, p=0.006) performance, independent of 
visual sensory deficits, and showed lower Verbal IQ (VIQ) and Performance IQ 
(PIQ; p<0.001). Visual perceptive functioning accounted for 13% of variance in 
VIQ, and for 35% of variance in PIQ.
INTERPRETATION: Visual sensory and perceptive dysfunctions are present in 
VP/VLBW children and occur largely independently of each other. Visual 
perceptive dysfunctions are moderately associated with PIQ, and weakly with VIQ.

© 2014 Mac Keith Press.

DOI: 10.1111/dmcn.12404
PMID: 24579723 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


472. Clin Toxicol (Phila). 2014 Mar;52(3):181-6. doi: 10.3109/15563650.2014.892123.

Misdiagnosis and long-term outcome of 13 patients with acute thallium poisoning 
in China.

Li JM(1), Wang W, Lei S, Zhao LL, Zhou D, Xiong H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatrics, The Fourth Affiliated Hospital of Sichuan 
University and Department of Neurology, West China Hospital, Sichuan University 
, Chengdu , P.R.China.

PURPOSE: To analyze clinical feature and evaluate long-term outcome of patients 
with thallium poisoning.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: An observational series of cases with acute thallium 
poisoning was analyzed retrospectively in West China Hospital of Sichuan 
University between 2000 and 2010. The clinical data including symptom, 
determination of thallium level, treatment, neurophysiological examination, and 
neuropsychological evaluation were analyzed. The patients were followed up until 
December 2012.
RESULTS: Seven men and six women were enrolled in the study. The median patient 
age was 37 years (range: 15-53 years). The median duration of hospitalization 
was 44 days (range: 7-72). All the patients were misdiagnosed initially. One 
patient died in the hospital. The other 12 patients were followed for a median 
of 7 years (range: 1-12 years) after discharge from hospital. One patient died 
from leukemia in the first year of follow-up. Long-term outcome results showed 
peripheral neuropathy improved substantially. However, many patients have mild 
or moderate sequelae in sensory nerve fibers of distal lower extremity. A sural 
nerve biopsy in one patient revealed shrunken axons, distorted myelin sheath, 
and myelinated fibers loss. During follow-up period, problem of intelligence 
(4/12 patients, 33%), memory impairment (4/12, 33%), anxiety (6/12, 50%), and 
depression (5/12, 42%) were demonstrated.
CONCLUSIONS: Neurological symptoms may lead to misdiagnosis of thallium 
poisoning. Mild or moderate neurological sequelae may last for a long time after 
thallium poisoning.

DOI: 10.3109/15563650.2014.892123
PMID: 24580057 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


473. Neuroimage. 2014 Jun;93 Pt 1:146-53. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2014.02.020. Epub 
2014 Feb 25.

Electrophysiological indices of interference resolution covary with individual 
fluid intelligence: investigating reactive control processes in a 3-back working 
memory task.

Perfetti B(1), Varanese S(2), Mancino E(3), Mercuri P(4), Tesse M(5), Franciotti 
R(6), Bonanni L(7), Thomas A(8), Onofrj M(9).

Author information:
(1)Ce.S.I - University of Chieti-Pescara, Department of Neuroscience and 
Imaging, Via Luigi Polacchi, 11 (ex Via Colle dell'Ara) - 66100 Chieti, Italy. 
Electronic address: perfetti@inwind.it.
(2)New York University, Department of Neurology, Division of Movement Disorders, 
School of Medicine, 550 First Avenue RR311, New York, NY 111016, USA. Electronic 
address: sara.varanese@nyumc.org.
(3)Ce.S.I - University of Chieti-Pescara, Department of Neuroscience and 
Imaging, Via Luigi Polacchi, 11 (ex Via Colle dell'Ara) - 66100 Chieti, Italy. 
Electronic address: elisa.mancino@libero.it.
(4)Ce.S.I - University of Chieti-Pescara, Department of Neuroscience and 
Imaging, Via Luigi Polacchi, 11 (ex Via Colle dell'Ara) - 66100 Chieti, Italy. 
Electronic address: mercuripsycho@libero.it.
(5)Institute of Psychiatry, King's College London, Department of Psychological 
Medicine, Weston Education Centre, Cutcombe Road, SE5 9RJ London, UK. Electronic 
address: marcello.tesse@email.it.
(6)ITAB - University of Chieti-Pescara, Department of Neuroscience and Imaging, 
Via Luigi Polacchi, 12 (ex Via Colle dell'Ara) - 66100 Chieti, Italy. Electronic 
address: raffaella.franciotti@itab.unich.it.
(7)Ce.S.I - University of Chieti-Pescara, Department of Neuroscience and 
Imaging, Via Luigi Polacchi, 11 (ex Via Colle dell'Ara) - 66100 Chieti, Italy. 
Electronic address: l.bonanni@unich.it.
(8)Ce.S.I - University of Chieti-Pescara, Department of Neuroscience and 
Imaging, Via Luigi Polacchi, 11 (ex Via Colle dell'Ara) - 66100 Chieti, Italy. 
Electronic address: athomas@unich.it.
(9)Ce.S.I - University of Chieti-Pescara, Department of Neuroscience and 
Imaging, Via Luigi Polacchi, 11 (ex Via Colle dell'Ara) - 66100 Chieti, Italy. 
Electronic address: onofrj@unich.it.

It has been proposed that the well-established relationship between working 
memory (WM) and fluid intelligence (gf) is mediated by executive mechanisms 
underlying interference control. The latter relies upon the integrity of a 
frontoparietal brain network, whose activity is modulated by general cognition. 
In regards to the chronology of this activation, only few EEG studies 
investigated the topic, although none of them examined the regional interaction 
or the effects of individual differences in gf. The current investigation sought 
at extending previous research by characterizing the EEG markers (temporal 
activation and regional coupling) of interference control and the effects of the 
individual variation in gf. To this end, we recorded the EEG activity of 33 
participants while performing verbal and spatial versions of a 3-back WM task. 
In a separate session, participants were administered with a test of fluid 
intelligence. Interference-inducing trials were associated with an increased 
negativity in the frontal scalp region occurring in two separate time windows 
and probably reflecting two different stages of the underlying cognitive 
process. In addition, we found that scalp distribution of such activity differed 
among individuals, being the strongest activation of the left and right 
frontolateral sites related to high gf level. Finally, high- and low-gf 
participants showed different patterns in the modulation of regional 
connectivity (electrodes coherence in the range of 4.5-7.5Hz) according to 
changes in attention load among types of trials. Our findings suggest that 
high-gf participants may rely upon effective engagement and modulation of 
attention resources to face interference.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2014.02.020
PMID: 24582918 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


474. Hum Brain Mapp. 2014 Sep;35(9):4566-82. doi: 10.1002/hbm.22495. Epub 2014 Mar 2.

Efficiency of weak brain connections support general cognitive functioning.

Santarnecchi E(1), Galli G, Polizzotto NR, Rossi A, Rossi S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Surgery and Neuroscience, Neurology and 
Neurophysiology Section, University of Siena, Siena, Italy.

Brain network topology provides valuable information on healthy and pathological 
brain functioning. Novel approaches for brain network analysis have shown an 
association between topological properties and cognitive functioning. Under the 
assumption that "stronger is better", the exploration of brain properties has 
generally focused on the connectivity patterns of the most strongly correlated 
regions, whereas the role of weaker brain connections has remained obscure for 
years. Here, we assessed whether the different strength of connections between 
brain regions may explain individual differences in intelligence. We 
analyzed-functional connectivity at rest in ninety-eight healthy individuals of 
different age, and correlated several connectivity measures with full scale, 
verbal, and performance Intelligent Quotients (IQs). Our results showed that the 
variance in IQ levels was mostly explained by the distributed communication 
efficiency of brain networks built using moderately weak, long-distance 
connections, with only a smaller contribution of stronger connections. The 
variability in individual IQs was associated with the global efficiency of a 
pool of regions in the prefrontal lobes, hippocampus, temporal pole, and 
postcentral gyrus. These findings challenge the traditional view of a prominent 
role of strong functional brain connections in brain topology, and highlight the 
importance of both strong and weak connections in determining the functional 
architecture responsible for human intelligence variability.

Copyright © 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/hbm.22495
PMCID: PMC6869093
PMID: 24585433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


475. PLoS One. 2014 Feb 27;9(2):e88606. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0088606. 
eCollection 2014.

The 'dark side' and 'bright side' of personality: when too much 
conscientiousness and too little anxiety are detrimental with respect to the 
acquisition of medical knowledge and skill.

Ferguson E(1), Semper H(2), Yates J(3), Fitzgerald JE(4), Skatova A(5), James 
D(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Psychology, University of Nottingham, Nottingham, United Kingdom.
(2)Centre for Health Psychology, Staffordshire University, Stoke on Trent, 
United Kingdom.
(3)Medical Education Centre, University of Nottingham School of Medicine, 
Queen's Medical Centre, Nottingham, United Kingdom.
(4)Department of General Surgery, Barnet Hospital, Barnet, United Kingdom.
(5)Horizon Digital Economy Research, Nottingham University Innovation Park, 
Nottingham, United Kingdom.

Theory suggests that personality traits evolved to have costs and benefits, with 
the effectiveness of a trait dependent on how these costs and benefits relate to 
the present circumstances. This suggests that traits that are generally viewed 
as positive can have a 'dark side' and those generally viewed as negative can 
have a 'bright side' depending on changes in context. We test this in a sample 
of 220 UK medical students with respect to associations between the Big 5 
personality traits and learning outcomes across the 5 years of a medical degree. 
The medical degree offers a changing learning context from pre-clinical years 
(where a more methodical approach to learning is needed) to the clinical years 
(where more flexible learning is needed, in a more stressful context). We argue 
that while trait conscientiousness should enhance pre-clinical learning, it has 
a 'dark side' reducing the acquisition of knowledge in the clinical years. We 
also suggest that anxiety has a 'bright side' enhancing the acquisition of 
skills in the clinical years. We also explore if intelligence enhances learning 
across the medical degree. Using confirmatory factor analysis and structural 
equation modelling we show that medical skills and knowledge assessed in the 
pre-clinical and clinical years are psychometrically distinguishable, forming a 
learning 'backbone', whereby subsequent learning outcomes are predicted by 
previous ones. Consistent with our predictions conscientiousness enhanced 
preclinical knowledge acquisition but reduced the acquisition of clinical 
knowledge and anxiety enhanced the acquisition of clinical skills. We also 
identified a curvilinear U shaped association between Surgency (extraversion) 
and pre-clinical knowledge acquisition. Intelligence predicted initial clinical 
knowledge, and had a positive total indirect effect on clinical knowledge and 
clinical skill acquisition. For medical selection, this suggests that selecting 
students high on conscientiousness may be problematic, as it may be excluding 
those with some degree of moderate anxiety.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0088606
PMCID: PMC3937323
PMID: 24586353 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


476. PLoS One. 2014 Feb 26;9(2):e88733. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0088733. 
eCollection 2014.

Preservation of general intelligence following traumatic brain injury: 
contributions of the Met66 brain-derived neurotrophic factor.

Barbey AK(1), Colom R(2), Paul E(3), Forbes C(4), Krueger F(5), Goldman D(6), 
Grafman J(7).

Author information:
(1)Decision Neuroscience Laboratory, University of Illinois, Urbana, Illinois, 
United States of America ; Beckman Institute for Advanced Science and 
Technology, University of Illinois, Urbana, Illinois, United States of America ; 
Department of Internal Medicine, University of Illinois, Champaign, Illinois, 
United States of America ; Department of Psychology, University of Illinois, 
Champaign, Illinois, United States of America ; Department of Speech and Hearing 
Science, University of Illinois, Champaign, Illinois, United States of America ; 
Neuroscience Program, University of Illinois, Champaign, Illinois, United States 
of America.
(2)Universidad Autónoma de Madrid, Fundación CIEN/Fundación Reina Sofía, Madrid, 
Spain.
(3)Decision Neuroscience Laboratory, University of Illinois, Urbana, Illinois, 
United States of America ; Beckman Institute for Advanced Science and 
Technology, University of Illinois, Urbana, Illinois, United States of America.
(4)Department of Psychology, University of Delaware, Delaware, Maryland, United 
States of America.
(5)Department of Molecular Neuroscience, George Mason University, Virginia, 
United States of America.
(6)Laboratory of Neurogenetics, National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and 
Alcoholism, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland, United States of 
America.
(7)Traumatic Brain Injury Research Laboratory, Rehabilitation Institute of 
Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, United States of America.

Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) promotes survival and synaptic 
plasticity in the human brain. The Val66Met polymorphism of the BDNF gene 
interferes with intracellular trafficking, packaging, and regulated secretion of 
this neurotrophin. The human prefrontal cortex (PFC) shows lifelong neuroplastic 
adaption implicating the Val66Met BDNF polymorphism in the recovery of 
higher-order executive functions after traumatic brain injury (TBI). In this 
study, we examined the effect of this BDNF polymorphism on the preservation of 
general intelligence following TBI. We genotyped a sample of male Vietnam combat 
veterans (n = 156) consisting of a frontal lobe lesion group with focal 
penetrating head injuries for the Val66Met BDNF polymorphism. Val/Met did not 
differ from Val/Val genotypes in general cognitive ability before TBI. However, 
we found substantial average differences between these groups in general 
intelligence (≈ half a standard deviation or 8 IQ points), verbal comprehension 
(6 IQ points), perceptual organization (6 IQ points), working memory (8 IQ 
points), and processing speed (8 IQ points) after TBI. These results support the 
conclusion that Val/Met genotypes preserve general cognitive functioning, 
whereas Val/Val genotypes are largely susceptible to TBI.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0088733
PMCID: PMC3935849
PMID: 24586380 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


477. PLoS One. 2014 Feb 25;9(2):e89425. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0089425. 
eCollection 2014.

Subcortical correlates of individual differences in aptitude.

Jung RE(1), Ryman SG(2), Vakhtin AA(2), Carrasco J(2), Wertz C(1), Flores RA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, New 
Mexico, United States of America.
(2)Department of Psychology, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, New Mexico, 
United States of America.

The study of individual differences encompasses broad constructs including 
intelligence, creativity, and personality. However, substantially less research 
is devoted to the study of specific aptitudes in spite of their importance to 
educational, occupational, and avocational success. We sought to determine 
subcortical brain structural correlates of several broad aptitudes including 
Math, Vocabulary, Foresight, Paper Folding, and Inductive Reasoning in a large 
(N = 107), healthy, young (age range  = 16-29) cohort. Subcortical volumes were 
measured using an automated technique (FreeSurfer) across structures including 
bilateral caudate, putamen, globus pallidus, thalamus, nucleus accumbens, 
hippocampus, amygdala, and five equal regions of the corpus callosum. We found 
that performance on measures of each aptitude was predicted by different 
subcortical structures: Math--higher right nucleus accumbens volume; 
Vocabulary--higher left hippocampus volume; Paper Folding--higher right thalamus 
volume; Foresight--lower right thalamus and higher mid anterior corpus callosum 
volume; Inductive Reasoning--higher mid anterior corpus callosum volume. Our 
results support general findings, within the cognitive neurosciences, showing 
lateralization of structure-function relationships, as well as more specific 
relationships between individual structures (e.g., left hippocampus) and 
functions relevant to particular aptitudes (e.g., Vocabulary).

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0089425
PMCID: PMC3934897
PMID: 24586770 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


478. PLoS One. 2014 Feb 25;9(2):e90097. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0090097. 
eCollection 2014.

The effect of paternal age on offspring intelligence and personality when 
controlling for paternal trait level.

Arslan RC(1), Penke L(2), Johnson W(3), Iacono WG(4), McGue M(4).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Psychology, Humboldt University of Berlin, Berlin, Germany ; 
Institute of Psychology, Georg August University Göttingen, Göttingen, Germany.
(2)Institute of Psychology, Georg August University Göttingen, Göttingen, 
Germany.
(3)Department of Psychology and Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive 
Epidemiology, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, United Kingdom.
(4)Department of Psychology, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota, 
United States of America.

Paternal age at conception has been found to predict the number of new genetic 
mutations. We examined the effect of father's age at birth on offspring 
intelligence, head circumference and personality traits. Using the Minnesota 
Twin Family Study sample we tested paternal age effects while controlling for 
parents' trait levels measured with the same precision as offspring's. From 
evolutionary genetic considerations we predicted a negative effect of paternal 
age on offspring intelligence, but not on other traits. Controlling for parental 
intelligence (IQ) had the effect of turning an initially positive association 
non-significantly negative. We found paternal age effects on offspring IQ and 
Multidimensional Personality Questionnaire Absorption, but they were not 
robustly significant, nor replicable with additional covariates. No other 
noteworthy effects were found. Parents' intelligence and personality correlated 
with their ages at twin birth, which may have obscured a small negative effect 
of advanced paternal age (<1% of variance explained) on intelligence. We discuss 
future avenues for studies of paternal age effects and suggest that stronger 
research designs are needed to rule out confounding factors involving birth 
order and the Flynn effect.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0090097
PMCID: PMC3934965
PMID: 24587224 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


479. ScientificWorldJournal. 2014 Jan 22;2014:216341. doi: 10.1155/2014/216341. 
eCollection 2014.

Vocal emotion of humanoid robots: a study from brain mechanism.

Wang Y(1), Hu X(2), Dai W(3), Zhou J(3), Kuo T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of English, Tamkang University, New Taipei City 25137, Taiwan.
(2)The First Affiliated Hospital, Second Military Medical University, Shanghai 
200433, China.
(3)School of Management, Fudan University, No. 220 Handan Road, Shanghai 200433, 
China.

Driven by rapid ongoing advances in humanoid robot, increasing attention has 
been shifted into the issue of emotion intelligence of AI robots to facilitate 
the communication between man-machines and human beings, especially for the 
vocal emotion in interactive system of future humanoid robots. This paper 
explored the brain mechanism of vocal emotion by studying previous researches 
and developed an experiment to observe the brain response by fMRI, to analyze 
vocal emotion of human beings. Findings in this paper provided a new approach to 
design and evaluate the vocal emotion of humanoid robots based on brain 
mechanism of human beings.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/216341
PMCID: PMC3920811
PMID: 24587712 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


480. Int J Bioinform Res Appl. 2014;10(2):157-76. doi: 10.1504/IJBRA.2014.059516.

Identification of unique repeated patterns, location of mutation in DNA finger 
printing using artificial intelligence technique.

Mukunthan B(1), Nagaveni N(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Computer Applications, Karpagam University, Coimbatore 641021, 
Tamil Nadu, India.
(2)Department of Mathematics, Coimbatore Institute of Technology, Coimbatore 
641014, Tamil Nadu, India.

In genetic engineering, conventional techniques and algorithms employed by 
forensic scientists to assist in identification of individuals on the basis of 
their respective DNA profiles involves more complex computational steps and 
mathematical formulae, also the identification of location of mutation in a 
genomic sequence in laboratories is still an exigent task. This novel approach 
provides ability to solve the problems that do not have an algorithmic solution 
and the available solutions are also too complex to be found. The perfect blend 
made of bioinformatics and neural networks technique results in efficient DNA 
pattern analysis algorithm with utmost prediction accuracy.

DOI: 10.1504/IJBRA.2014.059516
PMID: 24589835 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


481. J Autism Dev Disord. 2014 Aug;44(8):1972-81. doi: 10.1007/s10803-014-2073-2.

Atypical prosody in Asperger syndrome: perceptual and acoustic measurements.

Filipe MG(1), Frota S, Castro SL, Vicente SG.

Author information:
(1)Speech Lab, Faculty of Psychology and Education Sciences, University of 
Porto, Rua Alfredo Allen, 4200-135, Porto, Portugal, labfala@fpce.up.pt.

It is known that individuals with Asperger syndrome (AS) may show no problems 
with regard to what is said (e.g., lexical content) but tend to have 
difficulties in how utterances are produced, i.e., they may show prosodic 
impairments. In the present study, we focus on the use of prosodic features to 
express grammatical meaning. Specifically, we explored the sentence type 
difference between statements and questions that is conveyed by intonation, 
using perceptual and acoustic measurements. Children aged 8 and 9 years with AS 
(n = 12) were matched according to age and nonverbal intelligence with typically 
developing peers (n = 17). Although children with AS could produce categorically 
accurate prosodic patterns, their prosodic contours were perceived as odd by 
adult listeners, and acoustic measurements showed alterations in duration and 
pitch. Additionally, children with AS had greater variability in fundamental 
frequency contours compared to typically developing peers.

DOI: 10.1007/s10803-014-2073-2
PMID: 24590408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


482. Turk Psikiyatri Derg. 2014 Spring;25(1):60-4.

[Metallic mercury poisoning and neuropsychological effects: a case report].

[Article in Turkish]

Cöp E, Cengel Kültür SE, Erdoğan Bakar E.

Mercury is an extremely toxic heavy metal that can devastate central nervous 
system. We present the case of a 15 year old adolescent with mercury 
intoxication following 4 days of exposure to elemental mercury at home who was 
consulted by department of pediatrics with complaints of demonstrated emotional 
lability, memory impairment, disinhibition, and impulsivity. Olanzapin 2,5 
mg/day was initiated. Her neuropsychological performance was evaluated by a 
neuropsychological test battery at initial examination. Deterioration in 
neuropsychological functions like interference effect and attention (Stroop Test 
TBAG form), verbal fluency and switching to other category (Verbal Fluency Test, 
/(VFT), verbal short term and long term memory and recognition (Auditory Verbal 
Learning Test, /(AVLT) was detected. In 9 months follow up period her complaints 
resolved. Initial neuropsychological deficits were also fully recovered at 
follow up. There was an increase in intelligence scores with increased ability 
to pay and sustain attention. She had better performance at Stroop Test TBAG 
form, VFT and AVLT which was similar to her normal peers. In this case report, 
the clinical aspects of central nervous system involvement in mercury 
intoxication and protection from potential toxic effects of laboratory materials 
like mercury at schools were discussed. School administrators should be aware of 
and parents and students should be given necessary protective information.

PMID: 24590851 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


483. ScientificWorldJournal. 2014 Jan 23;2014:893525. doi: 10.1155/2014/893525. 
eCollection 2014.

Involving users to improve the collaborative logical framework.

Santos OC(1), Boticario JG(1).

Author information:
(1)aDeNu Research Group, Computer Science School, UNED, Calle Juan del Rosal 16, 
28040 Madrid, Spain.

In order to support collaboration in web-based learning, there is a need for an 
intelligent support that facilitates its management during the design, 
development, and analysis of the collaborative learning experience and supports 
both students and instructors. At aDeNu research group we have proposed the 
Collaborative Logical Framework (CLF) to create effective scenarios that support 
learning through interaction, exploration, discussion, and collaborative 
knowledge construction. This approach draws on artificial intelligence 
techniques to support and foster an effective involvement of students to 
collaborate. At the same time, the instructors' workload is reduced as some of 
their tasks-especially those related to the monitoring of the students 
behavior-are automated. After introducing the CLF approach, in this paper, we 
present two formative evaluations with users carried out to improve the design 
of this collaborative tool and thus enrich the personalized support provided. In 
the first one, we analyze, following the layered evaluation approach, the 
results of an observational study with 56 participants. In the second one, we 
tested the infrastructure to gather emotional data when carrying out another 
observational study with 17 participants.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/893525
PMCID: PMC3921980
PMID: 24592196 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


484. ScientificWorldJournal. 2014 Jan 23;2014:941532. doi: 10.1155/2014/941532. 
eCollection 2014.

Hierarchical artificial bee colony algorithm for RFID network planning 
optimization.

Ma L(1), Chen H(2), Hu K(2), Zhu Y(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Information Service & Intelligent Control, Shenyang Institute 
of Automation, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Faculty Office VII, Nanta Street No. 
114, Dongling District, Shenyang 110016, China ; University of Chinese Academy 
of Sciences, Beijing 100039, China.
(2)Department of Information Service & Intelligent Control, Shenyang Institute 
of Automation, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Faculty Office VII, Nanta Street No. 
114, Dongling District, Shenyang 110016, China.

This paper presents a novel optimization algorithm, namely, hierarchical 
artificial bee colony optimization, called HABC, to tackle the radio frequency 
identification network planning (RNP) problem. In the proposed multilevel model, 
the higher-level species can be aggregated by the subpopulations from lower 
level. In the bottom level, each subpopulation employing the canonical ABC 
method searches the part-dimensional optimum in parallel, which can be 
constructed into a complete solution for the upper level. At the same time, the 
comprehensive learning method with crossover and mutation operators is applied 
to enhance the global search ability between species. Experiments are conducted 
on a set of 10 benchmark optimization problems. The results demonstrate that the 
proposed HABC obtains remarkable performance on most chosen benchmark functions 
when compared to several successful swarm intelligence and evolutionary 
algorithms. Then HABC is used for solving the real-world RNP problem on two 
instances with different scales. Simulation results show that the proposed 
algorithm is superior for solving RNP, in terms of optimization accuracy and 
computation robustness.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/941532
PMCID: PMC3921959
PMID: 24592200 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


485. Front Hum Neurosci. 2014 Feb 14;8:39. doi: 10.3389/fnhum.2014.00039. eCollection 
2014.

Moderate relationships between NAA and cognitive ability in healthy adults: 
implications for cognitive spectroscopy.

Patel T(1), Blyth JC(2), Griffiths G(3), Kelly D(2), Talcott JB(1).

Author information:
(1)Aston Brain Centre, School of Life and Health Sciences, Aston University 
Birmingham, UK.
(2)Birmingham Children's Hospital Birmingham, UK.
(3)European Bioenergy Research Institute, Aston University Birmingham, UK.

BACKGROUND: Proton Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy ((1)H-MRS) is a non-invasive 
imaging technique that enables quantification of neurochemistry in vivo and 
thereby facilitates investigation of the biochemical underpinnings of human 
cognitive variability. Studies in the field of cognitive spectroscopy have 
commonly focused on relationships between measures of N-acetyl aspartate (NAA), 
a surrogate marker of neuronal health and function, and broad measures of 
cognitive performance, such as IQ.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: In this study, we used (1)H-MRS to interrogate 
single-voxels in occipitoparietal and frontal cortex, in parallel with 
assessments of psychometric intelligence, in a sample of 40 healthy adult 
participants. We found correlations between NAA and IQ that were within the 
range reported in previous studies. However, the magnitude of these effects was 
significantly modulated by the stringency of data screening and the extent to 
which outlying values contributed to statistical analyses.
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: (1)H-MRS offers a sensitive tool for assessing 
neurochemistry non-invasively, yet the relationships between brain metabolites 
and broad aspects of human behavior such as IQ are subtle. We highlight the need 
to develop an increasingly rigorous analytical and interpretive framework for 
collecting and reporting data obtained from cognitive spectroscopy studies of 
this kind.

DOI: 10.3389/fnhum.2014.00039
PMCID: PMC3924143
PMID: 24592224


486. Front Psychol. 2014 Feb 13;5:102. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.00102. eCollection 
2014.

Contributions from specific and general factors to unique deficits: two cases of 
mathematics learning difficulties.

Haase VG(1), Júlio-Costa A(1), Lopes-Silva JB(1), Starling-Alves I(2), Antunes 
AM(2), Pinheiro-Chagas P(3), Wood G(4).

Author information:
(1)Developmental Neuropsychology Laboratory, Department of Psychology, 
Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais Belo Horizonte, Brazil ; Programa de 
Pós-graduação em Saúde da Criança e do Adolescente, Faculdade de Medicina, 
Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais Belo Horizonte, Brazil.
(2)Developmental Neuropsychology Laboratory, Department of Psychology, 
Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais Belo Horizonte, Brazil.
(3)INSERM, U992, Cognitive Neuroimaging Unit Gif sur Yvette, France ; CEA, 
DSV/I2BM, NeuroSpin Center Gif sur Yvette, France.
(4)Department of Neuropsychology, Institute of Psychology, 
Karl-Franzens-University of Graz Graz, Austria.

Mathematics learning difficulties are a highly comorbid and heterogeneous set of 
disorders linked to several dissociable mechanisms and endophenotypes. Two of 
these endophenotypes consist of primary deficits in number sense and verbal 
numerical representations. However, currently acknowledged endophenotypes are 
underspecified regarding the role of automatic vs. controlled information 
processing, and their description should be complemented. Two children with 
specific deficits in number sense and verbal numerical representations and 
normal or above-normal intelligence and preserved visuospatial cognition 
illustrate this point. Child H.V. exhibited deficits in number sense and fact 
retrieval. Child G.A. presented severe deficits in orally presented problems and 
transcoding tasks. A partial confirmation of the two endophenotypes that relate 
to the number sense and verbal processing was obtained, but a much more clear 
differentiation between the deficits presented by H.V. and G.A. can be reached 
by looking at differential impairments in modes of processing. H.V. is notably 
competent in the use of controlled processing but has problems with more 
automatic processes, such as nonsymbolic magnitude processing, speeded counting 
and fact retrieval. In contrast, G.A. can retrieve facts and process nonsymbolic 
magnitudes but exhibits severe impairment in recruiting executive functions and 
the concentration that is necessary to accomplish transcoding tasks and word 
problem solving. These results indicate that typical endophenotypes might be 
insufficient to describe accurately the deficits that are observed in children 
with mathematics learning abilities. However, by incorporating 
domain-specificity and modes of processing into the assessment of the 
endophenotypes, individual deficit profiles can be much more accurately 
described. This process calls for further specification of the endophenotypes in 
mathematics learning difficulties.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.00102
PMCID: PMC3923187
PMID: 24592243


487. PLoS One. 2014 Mar 4;9(3):e71511. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0071511. eCollection 
2014.

A topic clustering approach to finding similar questions from large question and 
answer archives.

Zhang WN(1), Liu T(1), Yang Y(2), Cao L(3), Zhang Y(1), Ji R(4).

Author information:
(1)Research Center for Social Computing and Information Retrieval, Harbin 
Institute of Technology, Harbin, Heilongjiang, China.
(2)School of Computing, National University of Singapore, Singapore, Singapore.
(3)School of Information Science and Technology, Xiamen University, Xiamen City, 
Fujian, China.
(4)Department of Cognitive Science, Xiamen University, Xiamen City, Fujian, 
China.

With the blooming of Web 2.0, Community Question Answering (CQA) services such 
as Yahoo! Answers (http://answers.yahoo.com), WikiAnswer 
(http://wiki.answers.com), and Baidu Zhidao (http://zhidao.baidu.com), etc., 
have emerged as alternatives for knowledge and information acquisition. Over 
time, a large number of question and answer (Q&A) pairs with high quality 
devoted by human intelligence have been accumulated as a comprehensive knowledge 
base. Unlike the search engines, which return long lists of results, searching 
in the CQA services can obtain the correct answers to the question queries by 
automatically finding similar questions that have already been answered by other 
users. Hence, it greatly improves the efficiency of the online information 
retrieval. However, given a question query, finding the similar and 
well-answered questions is a non-trivial task. The main challenge is the word 
mismatch between question query (query) and candidate question for retrieval 
(question). To investigate this problem, in this study, we capture the word 
semantic similarity between query and question by introducing the topic modeling 
approach. We then propose an unsupervised machine-learning approach to finding 
similar questions on CQA Q&A archives. The experimental results show that our 
proposed approach significantly outperforms the state-of-the-art methods.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0071511
PMCID: PMC3942313
PMID: 24595052 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


488. J Biosoc Sci. 2015 May;47(3):281-310. doi: 10.1017/S0021932014000066. Epub 2014 
Mar 6.

Cognitive ability of preschool, primary and secondary school children in Costa 
Rica.

Rindermann H(1), Stiegmaier EM(2), Meisenberg G(3).

Author information:
(1)*Department of Psychology,Chemnitz University of Technology,Germany.
(2)†Clinical and Health Psychologist, Zeltweg,Austria.
(3)‡Ross University Medical School,Dominica.

Cognitive abilities of children in Costa Rica and Austria were compared using 
three age groups (N = 385/366). Cognitive ability tests (mental speed, culture 
reduced/fluid intelligence, literacy/crystallized intelligence) were applied 
that differed in the extent to which they refer to school-related knowledge. 
Preschool children (kindergarten, 5-6 years old, N(CR) = 80, N(Au) = 51) were 
assessed with the Coloured Progressive Matrices (CPM), primary school children 
(4th grade, 9-11 years old, N(CR) = 71, N(Au) = 71) with ZVT (a trail-making 
test), Standard Progressive Matrices (SPM) and items from PIRLS-Reading and 
TIMSS-Mathematics, and secondary school students (15-16 years old, N(CR) = 48, 
N(Au) = 48) with ZVT, Advanced Progressive Matrices (APM) and items from 
PISA-Reading and PISA-Mathematics. Additionally, parents and pupils were given 
questionnaires covering family characteristics and instruction. Average 
cognitive abilities were higher in Austria (Greenwich-IQ M(CR) = 87 and M(Au) = 
99, d(IQ) = 12 points) and differences were smaller in preschool than in 
secondary school (d(IQ) = 7 vs 20 points). Differences in crystallized 
intelligence were larger than in fluid intelligence (mental speed: d(IQ) = 12, 
Raven: d(IQ) = 10, student achievement tests: d(IQ) = 17 IQ points). Differences 
were larger in comparisons at the level of g-factors. Austrian children were 
also taller (6.80 cm, d = 1.07 SD), but had lower body mass index (BMI(CR) = 
19.35 vs BMI(Au) = 17.59, d = -0.89 SD). Different causal hypotheses explaining 
these differences are compared.

DOI: 10.1017/S0021932014000066
PMID: 24597991 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


489. Brain. 2014 Apr;137(Pt 4):1095-106. doi: 10.1093/brain/awu039. Epub 2014 Mar 4.

White matter development in children with benign childhood epilepsy with 
centro-temporal spikes.

Ciumas C(1), Saignavongs M, Ilski F, Herbillon V, Laurent A, Lothe A, Heckemann 
RA, de Bellescize J, Panagiotakaki E, Hannoun S, Marinier DS, Montavont A, 
Ostrowsky-Coste K, Bedoin N, Ryvlin P.

Author information:
(1)1 INSERM U1028, CNRS UMR5292, Centre de Recherche en Neuroscience de Lyon, 
Translational and Integrative Group in Epilepsy Research (TIGER), Université 
Lyon-1, Lyon, France.

Benign childhood epilepsy with centro-temporal spikes (BCECTS) is a unique form 
of non-lesional age-dependent epilepsy with rare seizures, focal 
electroencepalographic abnormalities affecting the same well delineated cortical 
region in most patients, and frequent mild to moderate cognitive dysfunctions. 
In this condition, it is hypothesized that interictal electroencepalographic 
discharges might interfere with local brain maturation, resulting in altered 
cognition. Diffusion tensor imaging allows testing of this hypothesis by 
investigating the white matter microstructure, and has previously proved 
sensitive to epilepsy-related alterations of fractional anisotropy and 
diffusivity. However, no diffusion tensor imaging study has yet been performed 
with a focus on BCECTS. We investigated 25 children suffering from BCECTS and 25 
age-matched control subjects using diffusion tensor imaging, 3D-T1 magnetic 
resonance imaging, and a battery of neuropsychological tests including Conner's 
scale and Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children (fourth revision). 
Electroencephalography was also performed in all patients within 2 months of the 
magnetic resonance imaging assessment. Parametric maps of fractional anisotropy, 
mean-, radial-, and axial diffusivity were extracted from diffusion tensor 
imaging data. Patients were compared with control subjects using voxel-based 
statistics and family-wise error correction for multiple comparisons. Each 
patient was also compared to control subjects. Fractional anisotropy and 
diffusivity images were correlated to neuropsychological and clinical variables. 
Group analysis showed significantly reduced fractional anisotropy and increased 
diffusivity in patients compared with control subjects, predominantly over the 
left pre- and postcentral gyri and ipsilateral to the electroencephalographic 
focus. At the individual level, regions of significant differences were observed 
in 10 patients (40%) for anisotropy (eight reduced fractional anisotropy, one 
increased fractional anisotropy, one both), and 17 (56%) for diffusivity (13 
increased, one reduced, three both). There were significant negative 
correlations between fractional anisotropy maps and duration of epilepsy in the 
precentral gyri, bilaterally, and in the left postcentral gyrus. Accordingly, 9 
of 12 patients (75%) with duration of epilepsy>12 months showed significantly 
reduced fractional anisotropy versus none of the 13 patients with duration of 
epilepsy≤12 months. Diffusivity maps positively correlated with duration of 
epilepsy in the cuneus. Children with BCECTS demonstrate alterations in the 
microstructure of the white matter, undetectable with conventional magnetic 
resonance imaging, predominating over the regions displaying chronic interictal 
epileptiform discharges. The association observed between diffusion tensor 
imaging changes, duration of epilepsy and cognitive performance appears 
compatible with the hypothesis that interictal epileptic activity alters brain 
maturation, which could in turn lead to cognitive dysfunction. However, such 
cross-sectional association does not demonstrate causality, and other hitherto 
unidentified factors could represent the common cause to part or all of the 
observed findings.

DOI: 10.1093/brain/awu039
PMID: 24598359 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


490. PLoS One. 2014 Mar 5;9(3):e90536. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0090536. eCollection 
2014.

Factors influencing performance of internet-based biosurveillance systems used 
in epidemic intelligence for early detection of infectious diseases outbreaks.

Barboza P(1), Vaillant L(1), Le Strat Y(2), Hartley DM(3), Nelson NP(4), 
Mawudeku A(5), Madoff LC(6), Linge JP(7), Collier N(8), Brownstein JS(9), 
Astagneau P(10).

Author information:
(1)International Department, French Institute for Public Health Surveillance 
(Institut de Veille Sanitaire), Saint Maurice, France.
(2)Infectious Department, French Institute for Public Health Surveillance 
(Institut de Veille Sanitaire), Saint Maurice, France.
(3)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Georgetown University Medical 
Center, Washington, D.C, United States of America; Imaging Science and 
Information Systems Center, Georgetown University School of Medicine, 
Washington, D.C, United States of America.
(4)Department of Pediatrics, Georgetown University Medical Center, Washington, 
D.C, United States of America.
(5)Centre for Emergency Preparedness and Response, Public Health Agency of 
Canada, Ottawa, Canada.
(6)ProMED-mail, International Society for Infectious Diseases, Boston, 
Massachusetts, United States of America.
(7)Joint Research Centre of the European Commission, Ispra, Italy.
(8)National Institute of Informatics, Tokyo, Japan; The European Bioinformatics 
Institute, Cambridge, United Kingdom.
(9)Boston Children's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, 
United States of America.
(10)École des Hautes Études en Santé Publique (EHESP), University school of 
public Health, PRES Sorbonne Cité, Paris, France.

BACKGROUND: Internet-based biosurveillance systems have been developed to detect 
health threats using information available on the Internet, but system 
performance has not been assessed relative to end-user needs and perspectives.
METHOD AND FINDINGS: Infectious disease events from the French Institute for 
Public Health Surveillance (InVS) weekly international epidemiological bulletin 
published in 2010 were used to construct the gold-standard official dataset. 
Data from six biosurveillance systems were used to detect raw signals 
(infectious disease events from informal Internet sources): Argus, BioCaster, 
GPHIN, HealthMap, MedISys and ProMED-mail. Crude detection rates (C-DR), crude 
sensitivity rates (C-Se) and intrinsic sensitivity rates (I-Se) were calculated 
from multivariable regressions to evaluate the systems' performance (events 
detected compared to the gold-standard) 472 raw signals (Internet disease 
reports) related to the 86 events included in the gold-standard data set were 
retrieved from the six systems. 84 events were detected before their publication 
in the gold-standard. The type of sources utilised by the systems varied 
significantly (p<0001). I-Se varied significantly from 43% to 71% (p=0001) 
whereas other indicators were similar (C-DR: p=020; C-Se, p=013). I-Se was 
significantly associated with individual systems, types of system, languages, 
regions of occurrence, and types of infectious disease. Conversely, no 
statistical difference of C-DR was observed after adjustment for other 
variables.
CONCLUSION: Although differences could result from a biosurveillance system's 
conceptual design, findings suggest that the combined expertise amongst systems 
enhances early detection performance for detection of infectious diseases. While 
all systems showed similar early detection performance, systems including human 
moderation were found to have a 53% higher I-Se (p=00001) after adjustment for 
other variables. Overall, the use of moderation, sources, languages, regions of 
occurrence, and types of cases were found to influence system performance.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0090536
PMCID: PMC3944226
PMID: 24599062 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


491. Int J Appl Basic Med Res. 2014 Jan;4(1):38-42. doi: 10.4103/2229-516X.125691.

Growth and sexual maturity pattern of girls with mental retardation.

Baidwan S(1), Paul MM(2), Chhatwal J(3), Deswal R(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy, Gian Sagar Medical College and Hospital, Ramnagar, 
Banur, Patiala, India.
(2)Department of Anatomy, Christian Medical College, Ludhiana, India.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, Christian Medical College, Ludhiana, Punjab, India.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, Christian Medical College, Ludhiana, Punjab, India.

BACKGROUND: Growth of mentally retarded children differs from that of normal 
children. However, the adolescent growth and development of Indian mentally 
retarded children has not been studied.
AIM: This study was conducted to evaluate the physical growth and sexual 
development of adolescent mentally retarded girls in North Indian population and 
to compare it with that of normal girls of same age group.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: One hundred mentally retarded (intelligence quotient (IQ) 
less than 70) and 100 normal girls between 10 and 20 years of age were 
categorized into 1-year age groups. Their height was measured and the sexual 
development was assessed based on breast development (BD) and pubic hair growth 
(PH) stages 1-5 on the basis of Tanner scale. The data was then compared between 
the two groups using Student's t-test. The mean age of menarche was calculated 
by applying Probit analysis.
RESULTS: The mean height of mentally retarded girls was significantly retarded 
as compared to normal girls at all ages; however, the mean height gain during 
11-20 years was same in both the groups. The mentally retarded girls also showed 
significant retardation in PH growth at 15-17 years and in BD at 15-16 years of 
age.
CONCLUSIONS: The physical growth and sexual development of adolescent mentally 
retarded girls was retarded as compared to the normal girls. The physical growth 
retardation occurred during early childhood (before 11 years), however the 
retardation in sexual maturity occurred during middle adolescence, between 15-17 
years of age.

DOI: 10.4103/2229-516X.125691
PMCID: PMC3931213
PMID: 24600577

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None declared.


492. Res Dev Disabil. 2014 May;35(5):1027-35. doi: 10.1016/j.ridd.2014.01.036. Epub 
2014 Mar 3.

Approximate additions and working memory in individuals with Down syndrome.

Belacchi C(1), Passolunghi MC(2), Brentan E(3), Dante A(3), Persi L(4), Cornoldi 
C(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Sciences, University of Urbino "Carlo Bo", Italy. 
Electronic address: carmen.belacchi@uniurb.it.
(2)Department of Life Sciences, University of Trieste, Italy.
(3)Department of General Psychology, University of Padova, Italy.
(4)Department of Human Sciences, University of Urbino "Carlo Bo", Italy.

There is some evidence that individuals with Down syndrome (DS) may have a 
poorer mathematical performance and a poorer working memory (WM) than typically 
developing (TD) children of the same mental age. In both typical and atypical 
individuals, different aspects of arithmetic and their relationships with WM 
have been largely studied, but the specific contribution of WM to the 
representation and elaboration of non-symbolic quantities has received little 
attention. The present study examined whether individuals with DS are as capable 
as TD children matched for fluid intelligence of estimating numerosity both of 
single sets and of added sets resulting when two sequentially presented sets are 
added together, also considering how these tasks related to verbal and 
visuospatial WM. Results showed that the DS group's performance was 
significantly worse than the TD group's in numerosity estimation involving one 
set, but not when estimating the numerosity resulting from the addition. Success 
in the addition task was related to success in the working memory tasks, but 
only for the group with DS; this applied especially to the visuospatial 
component, which (unlike the verbal component) was not impaired in the group 
with DS. It is concluded that the two numerosity tasks involve different 
processes. It is concluded that the arithmetical and working memory difficulties 
of individuals with DS are not general, and they can draw on their WM resources 
when estimating the numerosity of additions.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ridd.2014.01.036
PMID: 24602332 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


493. Appl Nurs Res. 2014 Nov;27(4):219-26. doi: 10.1016/j.apnr.2014.01.004. Epub 2014 
Jan 30.

Effects of exercise programs on depressive symptoms, quality of life, and 
self-esteem in older people: a systematic review of randomized controlled 
trials.

Park SH(1), Han KS(2), Kang CB(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, Pai Chai University, Daejeon 155-40, Korea.
(2)College of Nursing, Korea University, Seoul 136-701, Korea. Electronic 
address: hksun@korea.ac.kr.
(3)Research Development Team, Korea Health Promotion Foundation, Seoul 150-868, 
Korea.

OBJECTIVE: This study attempted to show evidence of exercise programs as 
intervention to decrease depressive symptoms and to improve quality of life and 
self-esteem in older people.
DESIGN: Systematic review of randomized controlled trials.
DATA SOURCES: Electronic databases of KoreaMed, Korea Scientific and 
Technological Intelligence Center, Korean Society of Nursing Science, Korean 
Academy of Psychiatric Mental Health Nursing, Ovid-Medline and Embase were 
searched up to May 25th, 2012 for relevant articles.
REVIEW: We searched studies of randomized controlled trials involving exercise 
programs administered to participants aged 65 years or over. Of 461 publications 
identified, 18 met the inclusion criteria for the meta-analysis. Quality 
assessment of the studies utilized Cochrane's Risk of Bias.
RESULTS: Exercise therapy in older people was effective, as evidenced by a 
decrease in depressive symptoms [standardized mean difference (SMD) -0.36; 95% 
confidence interval (CI) -0.64, -0.08], and improvements in quality of life (SMD 
0.86; 95% CI 0.11, 1.62) and self-esteem (SMD 0.49; 95% CI 0.09, 0.88). The 
changes were significant statistically, with no heterogeneity.
CONCLUSIONS: Exercise programs in older people are effective in improving 
depressive symptoms, quality of life and self-esteem. Development and efficient 
use of tailored exercise programs for elderly people is a prudent strategy.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.apnr.2014.01.004
PMID: 24602398 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


494. BMC Neurol. 2014 Mar 6;14:43. doi: 10.1186/1471-2377-14-43.

Cerebrovascular function and cognition in childhood: a systematic review of 
transcranial Doppler studies.

Bakker MJ, Hofmann J, Churches OF, Badcock NA, Kohler M, Keage HA(1).

Author information:
(1)Cognitive Neuroscience Laboratory, School of Psychology, Social Work and 
Social Policy, University of South Australia, GPO BOX 2471, 5001 Adelaide, SA, 
Australia. Hannah.Keage@unisa.edu.au.

BACKGROUND: The contribution of cerebrovascular function to cognitive 
performance is gaining increased attention. Transcranial doppler (TCD) is 
portable, reliable, inexpensive and extremely well tolerated by young and 
clinical samples. It enables measurement of blood flow velocity in major 
cerebral arteries at rest and during cognitive tasks.
METHODS: We systematically reviewed evidence for associations between cognitive 
performance and cerebrovascular function in children (0-18 years), as measured 
using TCD. A total of 2778 articles were retrieved from PsychInfo, Pubmed, and 
EMBASE searches and 25 relevant articles were identified.
RESULTS: Most studies investigated clinical groups, where decreased blood flow 
velocities in infants were associated with poor neurological functioning, and 
increased blood flow velocities in children with Sickle cell disease were 
typically associated with cognitive impairment and lower intelligence. Studies 
were also identified assessing autistic behaviour, mental retardation and sleep 
disordered breathing. In healthy children, the majority of studies reported 
cognitive processing produced lateralised changes in blood flow velocities 
however these physiological responses did not appear to correlate with 
behavioural cognitive performance.
CONCLUSION: Poor cognitive performance appears to be associated with decreased 
blood flow velocities in premature infants, and increased velocities in Sickle 
cell disease children using TCD methods. However knowledge in healthy samples is 
relatively limited. The technique is well tolerated by children, is portable and 
inexpensive. It therefore stands to make a valuable contribution to knowledge 
regarding the underlying functional biology of cognitive performance in 
childhood.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2377-14-43
PMCID: PMC3975716
PMID: 24602446 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


495. Behav Genet. 2014 Nov;44(6):549-77. doi: 10.1007/s10519-014-9646-x. Epub 2014 
Mar 7.

Genes, evolution and intelligence.

Bouchard TJ Jr(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN, USA, bouch001@umn.edu.

I argue that the g factor meets the fundamental criteria of a scientific 
construct more fully than any other conception of intelligence. I briefly 
discuss the evidence regarding the relationship of brain size to intelligence. A 
review of a large body of evidence demonstrates that there is a g factor in a 
wide range of species and that, in the species studied, it relates to brain size 
and is heritable. These findings suggest that many species have evolved a 
general-purpose mechanism (a general biological intelligence) for dealing with 
the environments in which they evolved. In spite of numerous studies with 
considerable statistical power, we know of very few genes that influence g and 
the effects are very small. Nevertheless, g appears to be highly polygenic. 
Given the complexity of the human brain, it is not surprising that that one of 
its primary faculties-intelligence-is best explained by the near infinitesimal 
model of quantitative genetics.

DOI: 10.1007/s10519-014-9646-x
PMID: 24604063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


496. Front Behav Neurosci. 2014 Feb 24;8:46. doi: 10.3389/fnbeh.2014.00046. 
eCollection 2014.

The relationship between executive functions and fluid intelligence in 
schizophrenia.

Roca M(1), Manes F(2), Cetkovich M(2), Bruno D(3), Ibáñez A(4), Torralva T(2), 
Duncan J(5).

Author information:
(1)Neuropsychology Research Department, Institute of Cognitive Neurology (INECO) 
Buenos Aires, Argentina ; Laboratory of Cognitive and Social Neuroscience 
(LaNCyS), UDP-INECO, Foundation Core on Neuroscience (UIFCoN), Diego Portales 
University Santiago, Chile ; Neuropsychology Department, Institute of 
Neurosciences Favaloro University Buenos Aires, Argentina.
(2)Neuropsychology Research Department, Institute of Cognitive Neurology (INECO) 
Buenos Aires, Argentina ; Neuropsychology Department, Institute of Neurosciences 
Favaloro University Buenos Aires, Argentina.
(3)Neuropsychology Research Department, Institute of Cognitive Neurology (INECO) 
Buenos Aires, Argentina.
(4)Neuropsychology Research Department, Institute of Cognitive Neurology (INECO) 
Buenos Aires, Argentina ; Laboratory of Cognitive and Social Neuroscience 
(LaNCyS), UDP-INECO, Foundation Core on Neuroscience (UIFCoN), Diego Portales 
University Santiago, Chile ; Universidad Autónoma del Caribe Barranquilla, 
Colombia.
(5)MRC Cognition and Brain Sciences Unit Cambridge, UK ; Department of 
Experimental Psychology, University of Oxford Oxford, UK.

An enduring question is unity vs. separability of executive deficits resulting 
from impaired frontal lobe function. In previous studies, we have asked how 
executive deficits link to a conventional measure of fluid intelligence, 
obtained either by standard tests of novel problem-solving, or by averaging 
performance in a battery of novel tasks. For some classical executive tasks, 
such as the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST), Verbal Fluency, and Trail Making 
Test B (TMTB), frontal deficits are entirely explained by fluid intelligence. 
However, on a second set of executive tasks, including tests of multitasking and 
decision making, deficits exceed those predicted by fluid intelligence loss. In 
this paper we discuss how these results shed light on the diverse clinical 
phenomenology observed in frontal dysfunction, and present new data on a group 
of 15 schizophrenic patients and 14 controls. Subjects were assessed with a 
range of executive tests and with a general cognitive battery used to derive a 
measure of fluid intelligence. Group performance was compared and fluid 
intelligence was introduced as a covariate. In line with our previous results, 
significant patient-control differences in classical executive tests were 
removed when fluid intelligence was introduced as a covariate. However, for 
tests of multitasking and decision making, deficits remained. We relate our 
findings to those of previous factor analytic studies describing a single 
principal component, which accounts for much of the variance of schizophrenic 
patients' cognitive performance. We propose that this general factor reflects 
low fluid intelligence capacity, which accounts for much but not all cognitive 
impairment in this patient group. Partialling out the general effects of fluid 
intelligence, we propose, may clarify the role of additional, more specific 
cognitive impairments in conditions such as schizophrenia.

DOI: 10.3389/fnbeh.2014.00046
PMCID: PMC3932409
PMID: 24605092


497. Psychiatry Investig. 2014 Jan;11(1):65-75. doi: 10.4306/pi.2014.11.1.65. Epub 
2014 Jan 21.

Neuropsychological and behavioral profiles in attention-deficit hyperactivity 
disorder children of parents with a history of mood disorders: a pilot study.

Park S(1), Hong KE(2), Yang YH(3), Kang J(4), Park EJ(5), Ha K(2), Park M(6), 
Yoo HJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Department of Psychiatry, Seoul 
National University College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Seoul National University Bundang Hospital, 
Seongnam, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, Pusan National University YangSan Children's 
Hospital, Yangsan, Republic of Korea.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, Inje University Busan Paik Hospital, Busan, 
Republic of Korea.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, Inje University Ilsan Paik Hospital, Goyang, 
Republic of Korea.
(6)Department of Preventive Medicine, Eulji University, Daejeon, Republic of 
Korea.

OBJECTIVE: We aimed to investigate the neurocognitive and behavioral 
endophenotypes of premorbid mood disorder. We compared intelligence, 
neuropsychological functioning, and behavioral problems among three groups: 1) a 
high-risk group [attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) children of 
parents with a history of a mood disorder], 2) a low-risk group (ADHD children 
of parents without a history of a mood disorder), and 3) normal comparison 
subjects.
METHODS: We used the Korean Educational Development Institute Wechsler 
Intelligence Scale for Children-Revised (KEDI-WISC-R), the Stroop Color Word 
Interference Test (Stroop), the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST), and the 
Rey-Osterrieth Complex Figure Test (RCFT) as neurocognitive measures, and we 
used the Child Behavior Checklist (CBCL) as a behavioral measure. Performance on 
these neuropsychological tests and score on the CBCL of 18 high-risk children 
were compared to those of 20 low-risk children and 24 healthy children. We also 
assessed the children's current mood state and familial functioning to control 
for the confounding effects of these variables.
RESULTS: Compared to low-risk and healthy children, high-risk children were 
impaired on the Picture Completion and Stroop Word subtest and showed higher 
scores on the CBCL subscales representing internalizing symptoms. These 
significant group differences persisted even after adjustment for the children's 
current mood state and familial functioning.
CONCLUSION: Neuropsychological deficits in the offspring of parents with a mood 
disorder may be associated with the current mood state rather than with innate 
characteristics, while their internalizing symptoms may partially stem from 
innate characteristics that are endophenotypes of a premorbid mood disorder.

DOI: 10.4306/pi.2014.11.1.65
PMCID: PMC3942554
PMID: 24605126


498. Radiol Manage. 2014 Jan-Feb;36(1):32-5; quiz 36-7.

Stress reduction in the workplace.

DiPaola D(1).

Author information:
(1)Nyack Hospital Center for Diagnostic Imaging, Nyack, NY, USA. 
ddipaola1@gmail.com

The modern radiology department operates within an environment of competition, 
increased regulation, and decreasing budgets. Functioning in this setting may 
lead the radiology manager to experience job related stress. Stress in the 
workplace has been linked to cardiovascular and musculoskeletal disorders. While 
there are a number of triggers for job related stress, it is important to 
identify the early warning signs and knee-jerk reactions. Emotional intelligence 
(EI) is one of several techniques that can be used to reduce job related stress. 
The key components of EI are self-awareness, self-management, social awareness, 
and relationship management.

PMID: 24605441 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


499. Scand J Psychol. 2014 Jun;55(3):255-62. doi: 10.1111/sjop.12112. Epub 2014 Mar 
8.

Genetic architecture of cognitive traits.

Le Hellard S(1), Steen VM.

Author information:
(1)The K.G. Jebsen Center for Psychosis Research and the Norwegian Centre for 
Mental Disorders Research (NORMENT CoE), Department of Clinical Science, 
University of Bergen, Norway; Dr. E. Martens Research Group for Biological 
Psychiatry, Center for Medical Genetics and Molecular Medicine, Haukeland 
University Hospital, Bergen, Norway.

The last decade has seen the development of large-scale genetics studies which 
have advanced our understanding of the genetic architecture of many complex 
heritable traits. In this review, we examine what progress has been made in 
understanding the genetics of cognitive traits. We cover the whole spectrum of 
distribution in cognitive abilities, from studies that have identified single 
genes implicated in intellectual disabilities, through studies investigating the 
missing and hidden heritability of cognitive abilities in the general 
population, and finally to studies looking at "high intelligence" samples.

© 2014 Scandinavian Psychological Associations and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/sjop.12112
PMID: 24605886 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


500. Comput Biol Med. 2014 Apr;47:139-46. doi: 10.1016/j.compbiomed.2014.02.003. Epub 
2014 Feb 15.

Improved explanation of human intelligence using cortical features with second 
order moments and regression.

Park H(1), Yang JJ(2), Seo J(3), Choi YY(4), Lee KH(5), Lee JM(6).

Author information:
(1)School of Electronic and Electrical Engineering, Sungkyunkwan University, 
Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Hanyang University, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Yonsei University, Republic of Korea.
(4)Bioimaging Research Center, Gwangju Institute of Science and Technology, 
Republic of Korea.
(5)Department of Marine Life Science, Chosun University, Republic of Korea.
(6)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Hanyang University, Republic of Korea. 
Electronic address: ljm@hanyang.ac.kr.

BACKGROUND: Cortical features derived from magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) 
provide important information to account for human intelligence. Cortical 
thickness, surface area, sulcal depth, and mean curvature were considered to 
explain human intelligence. One region of interest (ROI) of a cortical structure 
consisting of thousands of vertices contained thousands of measurements, and 
typically, one mean value (first order moment), was used to represent a chosen 
ROI, which led to a potentially significant loss of information.
METHODS: We proposed a technological improvement to account for human 
intelligence in which a second moment (variance) in addition to the mean value 
was adopted to represent a chosen ROI, so that the loss of information would be 
less severe. Two computed moments for the chosen ROIs were analyzed with partial 
least squares regression (PLSR). Cortical features for 78 adults were measured 
and analyzed in conjunction with the full-scale intelligence quotient (FSIQ).
RESULTS: Our results showed that 45% of the variance of the FSIQ could be 
explained using the combination of four cortical features using two moments per 
chosen ROI. Our results showed improvement over using a mean value for each ROI, 
which explained 37% of the variance of FSIQ using the same set of cortical 
measurements.
DISCUSSION: Our results suggest that using additional second order moments is 
potentially better than using mean values of chosen ROIs for regression analysis 
to account for human intelligence.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.compbiomed.2014.02.003
PMID: 24607681 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


501. Autism Res. 2014 Jun;7(3):344-54. doi: 10.1002/aur.1366. Epub 2014 Mar 7.

Emotion regulation patterns in adolescents with high-functioning autism spectrum 
disorder: comparison to typically developing adolescents and association with 
psychiatric symptoms.

Mazefsky CA(1), Borue X, Day TN, Minshew NJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is often associated with poor emotional control 
and psychopathology, such as anxiety and depression; however, little is known 
about the underlying mechanisms. Emotion regulation (ER) is a potential 
contributing factor, but there has been limited research on ER and its role in 
comorbid psychopathology in ASD. In this study, we compared self-reported ER 
with self- and parent reports of psychopathology in 25 high-functioning 
adolescents with ASD and 23 age- and Intelligence Quotient (IQ)-matched 
typically developing controls. Contrary to expectations, both groups reported 
similar levels of adaptive, voluntary forms of ER (problem solving, acceptance, 
etc.). However, the ASD group reported significantly greater use of involuntary 
forms of ER that are typically maladaptive, including remaining focused on the 
stressor (e.g. rumination and emotional arousal) and shutting down (e.g. 
emotional numbing and being unable to think or act). Associations between ER and 
psychopathology were generally more robust using self-report rather than parent 
report. For both groups, greater endorsement of involuntary ER strategies was 
associated with higher ratings of psychopathology, whereas voluntary ER 
strategies focused on changing or adapting to the situation were significantly 
associated with lower levels of psychopathology. The magnitude and direction of 
association between ER types and psychopathology were similar for measures of 
depression and anxiety. These findings can help guide the development of 
psychosocial treatments targeting dysfunctional ER in adolescents with ASD. 
Interventions focused on ER as a transdiagnostic process may be a more robust 
method to improve emotional control and decrease emotional distress in ASD than 
disorder-specific interventions.

© 2014 International Society for Autism Research, Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/aur.1366
PMCID: PMC4136477
PMID: 24610869 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
declare.


502. Nutr Res Pract. 2014 Feb;8(1):112-9. doi: 10.4162/nrp.2014.8.1.112. Epub 2014 
Jan 29.

Sensory education program development, application and its therapeutic effect in 
children.

Kim MH(1), Chung HK(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Food and Nutrition, Hoseo University, 20, Hoseo-ro 79, Asan, 
Chungnam 336-795, Korea.
(2)Department of Food and Nutrition, Hoseo University, Chungnam 336-795, Korea.

There has recently been Increased interest in the emotional intelligence (EQ) of 
elementary school students, which is recognized as a more important value than 
IQ (intelligence quotient) for predict of their success in school or later life. 
However, there are few sensory education programs, available to improve the EQ 
of elementary school student's in Korea. This study was conducted to develop an 
educational program that reflects the characteristics and contents of 
traditional rice culture and verify the effects of those programs on the EQ of 
children. The program was developed based on the ADDIE (Analysis, Design, 
Development, Implementation and Evaluation) model and participants were 
elementary school students in 3(rd) and 4(th) grade (n = 120) in Cheonan, Korea. 
Descriptive statistics and paired t-tests were used. EQ scores pertaining to the 
basic sense group, culture group, and food group were significantly improved 
after the sensory educational program(P < 0.05), but no change was observed in 
the control group. These findings indicate that sensory education contributed to 
improving elementary school children's Emotional Intelligence (EI) and their 
actual understanding about Korean traditional rice culture.

DOI: 10.4162/nrp.2014.8.1.112
PMCID: PMC3944150
PMID: 24611113


503. Can J Exp Psychol. 2014 Mar;68(1):46-58. doi: 10.1037/cep0000013.

Language proficiency and metacognition as predictors of spontaneous rehearsal in 
children.

Bebko JM(1), McMorris CA(1), Metcalfe A(1), Ricciuti C(1), Goldstein G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, York University.

Despite decades of research on fundamental memory strategies such as verbal 
rehearsal, the potential underlying skills associated with the emergence of 
rehearsal are still not fully understood. Two studies examined the relative 
roles of language proficiency and metamemory in predicting rehearsal use, as 
well as the prediction of metamemory performance by language proficiency. In 
Study 1, 59 children, 5 to 8 years old, were administered a serial recall task, 
2 language measures, a nonverbal cognitive measure, and a rapid automatized 
naming (RAN) task. Language proficiency, RAN, and age were significant 
individual predictors of rehearsal use. In hierarchical regression analyses, 
language proficiency mediated almost completely the age → rehearsal use 
relation. In addition, automatized naming was a strong but partial mediator of 
the contribution of language proficiency to rehearsal use. In Study 2, 54 
children were administered a metamemory test, a language measure, and a serial 
recall task. Metamemory skills and, again, language proficiency significantly 
predicted rehearsal use in the task. The predictive strength of metamemory 
skills was mediated by the children's language proficiency. The mutually 
supportive roles of automatized naming, language, and metamemory in the 
emergence of spontaneous cumulative verbal rehearsal are discussed in the 
context of the resulting model, along with the minimal roles of age and aspects 
of intelligence.

DOI: 10.1037/cep0000013
PMID: 24611603 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


504. Int J Obes (Lond). 2014 Oct;38(10):1335-42. doi: 10.1038/ijo.2014.40. Epub 2014 
Mar 11.

Obesity impairs academic attainment in adolescence: findings from ALSPAC, a UK 
cohort.

Booth JN(1), Tomporowski PD(2), Boyle JM(3), Ness AR(4), Joinson C(4), Leary 
SD(4), Reilly JJ(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Psychology, University of Dundee, Dundee, UK.
(2)University of Georgia, Athens, GA, USA.
(3)University of Strathclyde, Glasgow, UK.
(4)University of Bristol, Bristol, UK.

OBJECTIVE: While being overweight or obese in adolescence may have detrimental 
effects on academic attainment, the evidence base is limited by reliance on 
cross-sectional studies with small sample sizes, failure to take account of 
confounders and lack of consideration of potential mediators. The present study 
aimed to address these limitations and examine longitudinal associations between 
obesity in adolescence and academic attainment.
DESIGN: Associations between weight status at 11 years old and academic 
attainment assessed by national tests at 11, 13 and 16 years were examined in 
the Avon Longitudinal Study of Parents and Children. Healthy weight was defined 
as body mass index (BMI) Z-score <1.04; overweight as BMI Z-score 1.04-1.63; 
obesity as BMI Z-score ⩾1.64.
PARTICIPANTS: Data from 5966 participants with objectively measured weight 
status were examined: 71.4% were healthy weight (1935 males; 2325 females), 
13.3% overweight (372 males; 420 females) and 15.3% obese (448 males; 466 
females).
RESULTS: Girls obese at 11 years had lower academic attainment at 11, 13 and 16 
years compared with those of a healthy weight, even after controlling for a wide 
range of confounders. Associations between obesity and academic attainment were 
less clear in boys. The potential mediating effects of depressive symptoms, 
intelligence quotient (IQ) and age of menarche in girls were explored, but when 
confounders were included, there was no strong evidence for mediation.
CONCLUSIONS: For girls, obesity in adolescence has a detrimental impact on 
academic attainment 5 years later. Mental health, IQ and age of menarche did not 
mediate this relationship, suggesting that further work is required to 
understand the underlying mechanisms. Parents, education and public health 
policy makers should consider the wide reaching detrimental impact of obesity on 
educational outcomes in this age group.

DOI: 10.1038/ijo.2014.40
PMCID: PMC4189379
PMID: 24614099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


505. Pediatrics. 2014 Apr;133(4):e1072-6. doi: 10.1542/peds.2013-1324. Epub 2014 Mar 
10.

Late-onset ornithine transcarbamylase deficiency: treatment and outcome of 
hyperammonemic crisis.

Bergmann KR(1), McCabe J, Smith TR, Guillaume DJ, Sarafoglou K, Gupta S.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Pediatrics and.

Hyperammonemic crises in ornithine transcarbamylase deficiency (OTC) can be 
associated with devastating cerebral edema resulting in severe long-term 
neurologic impairment and death. We present an 8-year-old boy who had late-onset 
OTC deficiency in which early and aggressive management of hyperammonemia and 
associated cerebral edema, including therapeutic hypothermia and 
barbiturate-induced coma, resulted in favorable neurologic outcome. Our patient 
presented with vomiting and altered mental status, and was found to have a 
significantly elevated serum ammonia level of 1561 μmol/L. Hyperammonemia was 
managed with hemodialysis, 10% sodium phenylacetate, 10% sodium benzoate, 
L-arginine, intravenous 10% dextrose, intralipids, and protein restriction. He 
developed significant cerebral edema with intracranial pressures >20 mm Hg, 
requiring treatment with 3% saline and mannitol. Despite this treatment our 
patient continued to have elevated intracranial pressures, which were treated 
aggressively with non-conventional modalities including therapeutic hypothermia, 
barbiturate-induced coma, and external ventricular drainage. This therapy 
resulted in stabilization of hyperammonemia and resolution of cerebral edema. 
Molecular testing later revealed a hemizygous mutation within the OTC gene. 
Neuropsychological testing 1 year after discharge showed normal intelligence 
with no visual-motor deficits, minor deficits in working memory and processing 
speed, and slightly below average processing speed and executive functioning.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.2013-1324
PMID: 24616362 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


506. J Am Assoc Nurse Pract. 2014 May;26(5):238-47. doi: 10.1002/2327-6924.12112. 
Epub 2014 Mar 10.

Childhood lead poisoning and the new Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 
guidelines for lead exposure.

Schnur J(1), John RM.

Author information:
(1)Columbia University School of Nursing, New York.

PURPOSE: This article will give a brief history, review the latest guidelines, 
discuss risk factors and sources, and discuss screening, diagnosis, and 
management of lead poisoning in children. Additionally, the role of the nurse 
practitioner (NP) caring for children will be reviewed.
DATA SOURCES: Review of published literature on lead poisoning and the 2012 lead 
prevention guidelines of the Advisory Committee on Childhood Lead Poisoning 
Prevention (ACCLPP) of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).
CONCLUSIONS: While lead poisoning levels have decreased over the past several 
decades, newer research has shown that even low levels of lead in the blood can 
have negative effects on children's intelligence and neurodevelopment. As a 
result, ACCLPP of the CDC issued new, stricter lead prevention guidelines in 
2012.
IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE: Lead exposure and lead poisoning are pediatric public 
health risks. Studies have shown that no level of lead is considered safe, and 
the emphasis has shifted to primary prevention of lead exposure. Despite the 
focus on primary prevention, the NP must remain vigilant in history taking, 
exploring risk factors, and screening children in order to assure the best 
possible outcome.

©2014 The Author(s) ©2014 American Association of Nurse Practitioners.

DOI: 10.1002/2327-6924.12112
PMID: 24616453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


507. J Psychol. 2014 Jan-Feb;148(1):113-32. doi: 10.1080/00223980.2012.752336.

Character and dealing with laughter: the relation of self- and peer-reported 
strengths of character with gelotophobia, gelotophilia, and katagelasticism.

Proyer RT, Wellenzohn S, Ruch W.

We hypothesized that gelotophobia (the fear of being laughed at), gelotophilia 
(the joy of being laughed at), and katagelasticism (the joy of laughing at 
others) relate differently to character strengths. In Study 1 (N = 5,134), 
self-assessed gelotophobia was primarily negatively related to strengths 
(especially to lower hope, zest, and love), whereas only modesty yielded 
positive relations. Gelotophilia demonstrated mainly positive relations with 
humor, zest, and social intelligence. Katagelasticism existed widely unrelated 
from character strengths with humor demonstrating the comparatively highest 
coefficients. Study 2 consisted of N = 249 participants who provided self- and 
peer-ratings of strengths and self-reports on the three dispositions. The 
results converged well with those from Study 1. When comparing self- and 
peer-reports, those higher in gelotophobia under-estimated and those higher in 
gelotophilia over-estimated their virtuousness, whereas those higher in 
katagelasticism seemed to have a realistic appraisal of their strengths. 
Peer-rated (low) hope and modesty contributed to the prediction of gelotophobia 
beyond self-reports. The same was true for low modesty, creativity, low bravery, 
and authenticity for gelotophilia and for low love of learning regarding 
katagelasticism. Results suggest that there is a stable relation between the way 
people deal with ridicule and laughing and their virtuousness.

DOI: 10.1080/00223980.2012.752336
PMID: 24617274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


508. J Paediatr Child Health. 2014 Mar;50(3):182-8. doi: 10.1111/jpc.12475. Epub 2014 
Mar 12.

Effects of correcting for prematurity on cognitive test scores in childhood.

Wilson-Ching M(1), Pascoe L, Doyle LW, Anderson PJ.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Sciences, Murdoch Childrens Research Institute, Melbourne, Victoria, 
Australia.

AIMS: The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends that test scores should be 
corrected for prematurity up to 3 years of age, but this practice varies greatly 
in both clinical and research settings. The aim of this study was to contrast 
the effects of using chronological age and those of using corrected age on 
measures of cognitive outcome across childhood.
METHODS: A theoretical model was constructed using norms from the Bayley Scales 
of Infant and Toddler Development, Third Edition; the Wechsler Preschool and 
Primary Scale of Intelligence, Third Edition Australian; and the Wechsler 
Intelligence Scales for Children, Fourth Edition Australian. Baseline scores 
representing different levels of functioning (70, below average; 85, borderline; 
and 100, average) were recalculated using the normative data for ages 6 months 
to 16 years to account for 1, 2, 3 and 4 months of prematurity. The model 
created depicted the difference in standardised scores between chronological and 
corrected age.
RESULTS: Compared with scores corrected for prematurity, the absolute reduction 
in scores using chronological age was greater for increasing degree of 
prematurity, younger ages at assessment and higher baseline scores and was 
substantial even beyond 3 years of age. However, the pattern was erratic, with 
considerable fluctuation evident across different ages and baseline scores.
CONCLUSIONS: Chronological age results in a lowering of scores at all ages for 
preterm-born subjects that is greater in the first few years and in those born 
at earlier gestational ages. Whether or not to correct for prematurity depends 
upon the context of the assessment.

© 2014 The Authors. Journal of Paediatrics and Child Health © 2014 Paediatrics 
and Child Health Division (Royal Australasian College of Physicians).

DOI: 10.1111/jpc.12475
PMID: 24617343 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


509. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2014 Apr;62(4):629-35. doi: 10.1111/jgs.12752. Epub 2014 Mar 
11.

Associations between urine excretion of isoflavonoids and cognition in 
postmenopausal women in the Women's Isoflavone Soy Health clinical trial.

St John JA(1), Henderson VW, Hodis HN, Kono N, McCleary CA, Franke AA, Mack WJ.

Author information:
(1)Atherosclerosis Research Unit, University of Southern California, Los 
Angeles, California; Department of Preventive Medicine, University of Southern 
California, Los Angeles, California.

OBJECTIVES: To determine effect of change in urine excretion of isoflavonoids on 
cognitive change.
DESIGN: Post hoc analysis of isoflavonoid exposure (mean 2.7 years) during the 
randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind Women's Isoflavone Soy Health 
trial.
SETTING: General community.
PARTICIPANTS: Healthy postmenopausal women (N = 350).
INTERVENTION: Twenty-five grams of isoflavone-rich soy protein (91 mg of 
aglycone weight isoflavones: 52 mg genistein, 36 mg daidzein, 3 mg glycitein) or 
milk protein-matched placebo provided daily.
MEASUREMENTS: Overnight urine excretion, fasting plasma levels of isoflavonoids, 
and cognitive function measured at baseline and endpoint.
RESULTS: Three hundred women (age: mean 61, range 45-92) completed both 
cognitive assessments and did not use hormone replacement therapy during the 
trial. Mean on-trial change from baseline in urine excretion of isoflavonoids 
was not significantly associated with change in a composite score of global 
cognition (P = .39). Secondary analyses indicated that change in urine excretion 
of isoflavonoids was inversely associated with change in a factor score 
representing general intelligence (P = .02) but not with factor scores 
representing verbal or visual episodic memory. Mean differences in this general 
intelligence factor score between women in the lowest and highest quartiles of 
isoflavonoid change were equivalent to an approximate 4.4-year age-associated 
decline. Analyses based on plasma isoflavonoid levels yielded similar but 
attenuated results.
CONCLUSION: In healthy postmenopausal women, long-term changes in isoflavonoids 
are not associated with global cognition, supporting clinical trial results, 
although greater isoflavonoid exposure from dietary supplements is associated 
with decrements in general intelligence but not memory; this finding requires 
confirmation in future studies.

© 2014, Copyright the Authors Journal compilation © 2014, The American 
Geriatrics Society.

DOI: 10.1111/jgs.12752
PMCID: PMC4226524
PMID: 24617349 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


510. Int J Lang Commun Disord. 2014 May-Jun;49(3):343-53. doi: 
10.1111/1460-6984.12078. Epub 2014 Mar 12.

Deficits in narrative abilities in child British Sign Language users with 
specific language impairment.

Herman R(1), Rowley K, Mason K, Morgan G.

Author information:
(1)City University London, Northampton Square, London, United Kingdom.

This study details the first ever investigation of narrative skills in a group 
of 17 deaf signing children who have been diagnosed with disorders in their 
British Sign Language development compared with a control group of 17 deaf child 
signers matched for age, gender, education, quantity, and quality of language 
exposure and non-verbal intelligence. Children were asked to generate a 
narrative based on events in a language free video. Narratives were analysed for 
global structure, information content and local level grammatical devices, 
especially verb morphology. The language-impaired group produced shorter, less 
structured and grammatically simpler narratives than controls, with verb 
morphology particularly impaired. Despite major differences in how sign and 
spoken languages are articulated, narrative is shown to be a reliable marker of 
language impairment across the modality boundaries.

© 2014 Royal College of Speech and Language Therapists.

DOI: 10.1111/1460-6984.12078
PMID: 24617640 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


511. Med Teach. 2014 Apr;36 Suppl 1:S30-5. doi: 10.3109/0142159X.2014.886008.

Correlates of emotional intelligence: results from a multi-institutional study 
among undergraduate medical students.

Naeem N(1), van der Vleuten C, Muijtjens AM, Violato C, Ali SM, Al-Faris EA, 
Hoogenboom R, Naeem N.

Author information:
(1)Batterjee Medical College , Saudi Arabia .

BACKGROUND: Emotional Intelligence (EI) is the ability to deal with your own and 
others emotions. Medical students are inducted into medical schools on the basis 
of their academic achievement. Professionally, however, their success rate is 
variable and may depend on their interpersonal relationships. EI is thought to 
be significant in achieving good interpersonal relationships and success in life 
and career. Therefore, it is important to measure EI and understand its 
correlates in an undergraduate medical student population.
AIM: The objective of study was to investigate the relationship between the EI 
of medical students and their academic achievement (based on cumulative grade 
point average [CGPA]), age, gender and year of study.
METHODS: A cross-sectional survey design was used. The SSREIS and demographic 
survey were administered in the three medical schools in Saudi Arabia from April 
to May 2012.
RESULTS: The response rate was 30%. For the Optimism subscale, the mean score 
was M = 3.79, SD ± 0.54 (α = 0.82), for Awareness-of-emotion subscale M = 3.94, 
SD ± 0.57 (α = 0.72) and for Use-of-emotion subscale M = 3.92, SD ± 0.54 (α = 
0.63). Multiple regression showed a significant positive correlation between 
CGPA and the EI of medical students (r = 0.246, p = 0.000) on the Optimism 
subscale. No correlation was seen between CGPA and Awareness of Emotions and Use 
of Emotions subscales. No relationship was seen for the other independent 
variables.
CONCLUSION: The current study demonstrates that CGPA is the only significant 
predictor, indicating that Optimism tends to be higher for students with a 
higher CPGA. None of the other independent variables (age, year of study, 
gender) showed a significant relationship.

DOI: 10.3109/0142159X.2014.886008
PMID: 24617782 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


512. Sensors (Basel). 2014 Mar 11;14(3):4932-47. doi: 10.3390/s140304932.

Use of local intelligence to reduce energy consumption of wireless sensor nodes 
in elderly health monitoring systems.

Lampoltshammer TJ(1), Pignaton de Freitas E(2), Nowotny T(3), Plank S(4), da 
Costa JP(5), Larsson T(6), Heistracher T(7).

Author information:
(1)School of Information Technology and Systems Management, Salzburg University 
of Applied Sciences, Urstein Süd 1, Puch/Salzburg 5412, Austria. 
Thomas.Lampoltshammer@fh-salzburg.ac.at.
(2)Department of Applied Computing, Federal University of Santa Maria, Santa 
Maria 97105-900, Brazil. edisonpignaton@unb.br.
(3)School of Information Technology and Systems Management, Salzburg University 
of Applied Sciences, Urstein Süd 1, Puch/Salzburg 5412, Austria. 
tnowotny.lba@fh-salzburg.ac.at.
(4)School of Information Technology and Systems Management, Salzburg University 
of Applied Sciences, Urstein Süd 1, Puch/Salzburg 5412, Austria. 
stefan.plank@sbg.at.
(5)Laboratory of Array Signal Processing, Department of Electrical Engineering, 
University of Brasilia, Campus Universitário Darcy Ribeiro, S/N, Asa Norte, 
Brasília 70910-900, DF, Brazil. joaopaulo.dacosta@ene.unb.br.
(6)School of Information Science, Computer and Electrical Engineering, Halmstad 
Universtity, Kristian IV:s väg 3, Halmstad 301 18, Sweden. tony.larsson@hh.se.
(7)School of Information Technology and Systems Management, Salzburg University 
of Applied Sciences, Urstein Süd 1, Puch/Salzburg 5412, Austria. 
Thomas.Heistracher@fh-salzburg.ac.at.

The percentage of elderly people in European countries is increasing. Such 
conjuncture affects socio-economic structures and creates demands for 
resourceful solutions, such as Ambient Assisted Living (AAL), which is a 
possible methodology to foster health care for elderly people. In this context, 
sensor-based devices play a leading role in surveying, e.g., health conditions 
of elderly people, to alert care personnel in case of an incident. However, the 
adoption of such devices strongly depends on the comfort of wearing the devices. 
In most cases, the bottleneck is the battery lifetime, which impacts the 
effectiveness of the system. In this paper we propose an approach to reduce the 
energy consumption of sensors' by use of local sensors' intelligence. By 
increasing the intelligence of the sensor node, a substantial decrease in the 
necessary communication payload can be achieved. The results show a significant 
potential to preserve energy and decrease the actual size of the sensor device 
units.

DOI: 10.3390/s140304932
PMCID: PMC4003975
PMID: 24618777 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


513. PLoS One. 2014 Mar 11;9(3):e91786. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0091786. 
eCollection 2014.

Generalized trust and intelligence in the United States.

Carl N(1), Billari FC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology and Nuffield College, University of Oxford, Oxford, 
United Kingdom.

Generalized trust refers to trust in other members of society; it may be 
distinguished from particularized trust, which corresponds to trust in the 
family and close friends. An extensive empirical literature has established that 
generalized trust is an important aspect of civic culture. It has been linked to 
a variety of positive outcomes at the individual level, such as 
entrepreneurship, volunteering, self-rated health, and happiness. However, two 
recent studies have found that it is highly correlated with intelligence, which 
raises the possibility that the other relationships in which it has been 
implicated may be spurious. Here we replicate the association between 
intelligence and generalized trust in a large, nationally representative sample 
of U.S. adults. We also show that, after adjusting for intelligence, generalized 
trust continues to be strongly associated with both self-rated health and 
happiness. In the context of substantial variation across countries, these 
results bolster the view that generalized trust is a valuable social resource, 
not only for the individual but for the wider society as well.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0091786
PMCID: PMC3950280
PMID: 24619035 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


514. Am J Med Genet B Neuropsychiatr Genet. 2014 Apr;165B(3):245-53. doi: 
10.1002/ajmg.b.32229. Epub 2014 Mar 12.

The interaction effect between BDNF val66met polymorphism and obesity on 
executive functions and frontal structure.

Marqués-Iturria I(1), Garolera M, Pueyo R, Segura B, Hernan I, García-García I, 
Sánchez-Garre C, Vernet-Vernet M, Sender-Palacios MJ, Narberhaus A, Ariza M, 
Junqué C, Jurado MÁ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Clinical Psychobiology, University of Barcelona, 
Barcelona, Spain; Institute for Brain, Cognition and Behaviour (IR3C), 
University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.

The prevalence of obesity is increasing worldwide. Previous research has shown a 
relationship between obesity and both executive functioning alterations and 
frontal cortex volume reductions. The Brain Derived Neurotrophic Factor val66met 
polymorphism, involved in eating behavior, has also been associated with 
executive functions and prefrontal cortex volume, but to date it has not been 
studied in relation to obesity. Our aim is to elucidate whether the interaction 
between the Brain Derived Neurotrophic Factor val66met polymorphism and obesity 
status influences executive performance and frontal-subcortical brain structure. 
Sixty-one volunteers, 34 obese and 27 controls, age range 12-40, participated in 
the study. Participants were assigned to one of two genotype groups (met allele 
carriers, n = 16, or non-carriers, n = 45). Neuropsychological assessment 
comprised the Trail Making Test, the Stroop Test and the Wisconsin Card Sorting 
Test, all tasks that require response inhibition and cognitive flexibility. 
Subjects underwent magnetic resonance imaging in a Siemens TIM TRIO 3T scanner 
and images were analyzed using the FreeSurfer software. Analyses of covariance 
controlling for age and intelligence showed an effect of the obesity-by-genotype 
interaction on perseverative responses on the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test as 
well as on precentral and caudal middle frontal cortical thickness: obese met 
allele carriers showed more perseverations on the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test 
and lower frontal thickness than obese non-carriers and controls. In conclusion, 
the Brain Derived Neurotrophic Factor may play an important role in executive 
functioning and frontal brain structure in obesity.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.b.32229
PMID: 24619555 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


515. J Int Neuropsychol Soc. 2014 Apr;20(4):434-43. doi: 10.1017/S1355617714000150. 
Epub 2014 Mar 12.

Asymmetric attention networks: the case of children.

Yaakoby-Rotem S(1), Geva R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Bar Ilan University, Ramat Gan, Israel.

Visuospatial attention-networks are represented in both hemispheres, with 
right-hemisphere dominance in adults. Little is known about the lateralization 
of the attentional-networks in children. To assess the lateralization of 
attentional-networks in children aged 5 years, performance on a 
Lateralized-Attention-Network-Test specifically designed for children (LANT-C) 
was compared with performance on the Attention-Network-Test for children 
(ANT-C). Participants were 82 children, aged 5-6 years (55% boys, middle-class, 
mainstream schooling). They were examined with both the ANT-C and the LANT-C 
along with evaluation of intelligence and attention questionnaires. Multiple 
analysis of variance showed a main effect for network, with high efficiency for 
orienting and lower executive efficiency (accuracy; p < .001; η2 = .282). An 
effect for procedure, elucidated higher efficiency in the ANT-C relatively to 
the LANT-C (accuracy; p < .01; η2 = .097). A procedure × network interaction 
effect was also found, showing that this procedure difference is present in the 
alerting and executive networks (accuracy; p < .05; η2 = .096). LANT-C analysis 
showed a left visual-field advantage in alerting, (accuracy; p < .05; η2 = 
.066), while executing with the right hand benefitted executive performance 
(response-time; p < .05; η2 = .06). Results extend previous findings manifesting 
a right-hemisphere advantage in children's alerting-attention, pointing to the 
importance of lateralization of brain function to the understanding of the 
integrity of attention-networks in children.

DOI: 10.1017/S1355617714000150
PMID: 24621562 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


516. ISPRS J Photogramm Remote Sens. 2014 Jan;87(100):180-191. doi: 
10.1016/j.isprsjprs.2013.09.014.

Geographic Object-Based Image Analysis - Towards a new paradigm.

Blaschke T(1), Hay GJ(1), Kelly M(1), Lang S(1), Hofmann P(1), Addink E(1), 
Queiroz Feitosa R(1), van der Meer F(1), van der Werff H(1), van Coillie F(1), 
Tiede D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Geoinformatics - Z_GIS, University of Salzburg, Hellbrunner 
Str. 34, A-5020 Salzburg, Austria.

The amount of scientific literature on (Geographic) Object-based Image Analysis 
- GEOBIA has been and still is sharply increasing. These approaches to analysing 
imagery have antecedents in earlier research on image segmentation and use 
GIS-like spatial analysis within classification and feature extraction 
approaches. This article investigates these development and its implications and 
asks whether or not this is a new paradigm in remote sensing and Geographic 
Information Science (GIScience). We first discuss several limitations of 
prevailing per-pixel methods when applied to high resolution images. Then we 
explore the paradigm concept developed by Kuhn (1962) and discuss whether GEOBIA 
can be regarded as a paradigm according to this definition. We crystallize core 
concepts of GEOBIA, including the role of objects, of ontologies and the 
multiplicity of scales and we discuss how these conceptual developments support 
important methods in remote sensing such as change detection and accuracy 
assessment. The ramifications of the different theoretical foundations between 
the 'per-pixel paradigm' and GEOBIA are analysed, as are some of the challenges 
along this path from pixels, to objects, to geo-intelligence. Based on several 
paradigm indications as defined by Kuhn and based on an analysis of 
peer-reviewed scientific literature we conclude that GEOBIA is a new and 
evolving paradigm.

DOI: 10.1016/j.isprsjprs.2013.09.014
PMCID: PMC3945831
PMID: 24623958


517. Front Psychol. 2014 Mar 4;5:158. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.00158. eCollection 
2014.

Impact of personal economic environment and personality factors on individual 
financial decision making.

Prinz S(1), Gründer G(2), Hilgers RD(3), Holtemöller O(4), Vernaleken I(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Psychotherapy and Psychosomatics, Centre for 
Integrative Psychiatry, University Hospital of Psychiatry Zurich Rheinau, 
Switzerland.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Psychotherapy and Psychosomatics, Faculty of 
Medicine, RWTH Aachen University Aachen, Germany.
(3)Institute of Medical Statistics, Faculty of Medicine, RWTH Aachen University 
Aachen, Germany.
(4)Department of Macroeconomics, Halle Institute for Economic Research Halle, 
Germany ; Martin Luther University Halle, Germany.

This study on healthy young male students aimed to enlighten the associations 
between an individual's financial decision making and surrogate makers for 
environmental factors covering long-term financial socialization, the current 
financial security/responsibility, and the personal affinity to financial 
affairs as represented by parental income, funding situation, and field of 
study. A group of 150 male young healthy students underwent two versions of the 
Holt and Laury (2002) lottery paradigm (matrix and random sequential version). 
Their financial decision was mainly driven by the factor "source of funding": 
students with strict performance control (grants, scholarships) had much higher 
rates of relative risk aversion (RRA) than subjects with support from family 
(ΔRRA = 0.22; p = 0.018). Personality scores only modestly affected the outcome. 
In an ANOVA, however, also the intelligence quotient significantly and 
relevantly contributed to the explanation of variance; the effects of parental 
income and the personality factors "agreeableness" and "openness" showed 
moderate to modest - but significant - effects. These findings suggest that 
environmental factors more than personality factors affect risk aversion.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.00158
PMCID: PMC3941213
PMID: 24624100


518. PLoS One. 2014 Mar 13;9(3):e91001. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0091001. 
eCollection 2014.

A methodology for adaptable and robust ecosystem services assessment.

Villa F(1), Bagstad KJ(2), Voigt B(3), Johnson GW(4), Portela R(5), Honzák M(5), 
Batker D(6).

Author information:
(1)Basque Centre for Climate Change (BC3), IKERBASQUE, Basque Foundation for 
Science, Bilbao, Bizkaia, Spain.
(2)Geosciences & Environmental Change Science Center, U.S. Geological Survey, 
Denver, Colorado, United States of America.
(3)Gund Institute for Ecological Economics, Rubenstein School of Environment and 
Natural Resources, University of Vermont, Burlington, Vermont, United States of 
America.
(4)Department of Computer Science, University of Vermont, Burlington, Vermont, 
United States of America.
(5)Conservation International, Arlington, Virginia, United States of America.
(6)Earth Economics, Tacoma, Washington, United States of America.

Ecosystem Services (ES) are an established conceptual framework for attributing 
value to the benefits that nature provides to humans. As the promise of robust 
ES-driven management is put to the test, shortcomings in our ability to 
accurately measure, map, and value ES have surfaced. On the research side, 
mainstream methods for ES assessment still fall short of addressing the complex, 
multi-scale biophysical and socioeconomic dynamics inherent in ES provision, 
flow, and use. On the practitioner side, application of methods remains onerous 
due to data and model parameterization requirements. Further, it is increasingly 
clear that the dominant "one model fits all" paradigm is often ill-suited to 
address the diversity of real-world management situations that exist across the 
broad spectrum of coupled human-natural systems. This article introduces an 
integrated ES modeling methodology, named ARIES (ARtificial Intelligence for 
Ecosystem Services), which aims to introduce improvements on these fronts. To 
improve conceptual detail and representation of ES dynamics, it adopts a uniform 
conceptualization of ES that gives equal emphasis to their production, flow and 
use by society, while keeping model complexity low enough to enable rapid and 
inexpensive assessment in many contexts and for multiple services. To improve 
fit to diverse application contexts, the methodology is assisted by model 
integration technologies that allow assembly of customized models from a growing 
model base. By using computer learning and reasoning, model structure may be 
specialized for each application context without requiring costly expertise. In 
this article we discuss the founding principles of ARIES--both its innovative 
aspects for ES science and as an example of a new strategy to support more 
accurate decision making in diverse application contexts.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0091001
PMCID: PMC3953216
PMID: 24625496 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


519. PLoS One. 2014 Mar 13;9(3):e61567. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0061567. 
eCollection 2014.

Learning to rank figures within a biomedical article.

Liu F(1), Yu H(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Computer Science, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, Milwaukee, 
Wisconsin, United States of America.
(2)Department of Quantitative Health Sciences, University of Massachusetts 
Medical School, Worcester, Massachusetts, United States of America; VA Central 
Western Massachusetts, Northampton, Massachusetts, United States of America.

Hundreds of millions of figures are available in biomedical literature, 
representing important biomedical experimental evidence. This ever-increasing 
sheer volume has made it difficult for scientists to effectively and accurately 
access figures of their interest, the process of which is crucial for validating 
research facts and for formulating or testing novel research hypotheses. Current 
figure search applications can't fully meet this challenge as the "bag of 
figures" assumption doesn't take into account the relationship among figures. In 
our previous study, hundreds of biomedical researchers have annotated articles 
in which they serve as corresponding authors. They ranked each figure in their 
paper based on a figure's importance at their discretion, referred to as "figure 
ranking". Using this collection of annotated data, we investigated computational 
approaches to automatically rank figures. We exploited and extended the 
state-of-the-art listwise learning-to-rank algorithms and developed a new 
supervised-learning model BioFigRank. The cross-validation results show that 
BioFigRank yielded the best performance compared with other state-of-the-art 
computational models, and the greedy feature selection can further boost the 
ranking performance significantly. Furthermore, we carry out the evaluation by 
comparing BioFigRank with three-level competitive domain-specific human experts: 
(1) First Author, (2) Non-Author-In-Domain-Expert who is not the author nor 
co-author of an article but who works in the same field of the corresponding 
author of the article, and (3) Non-Author-Out-Domain-Expert who is not the 
author nor co-author of an article and who may or may not work in the same field 
of the corresponding author of an article. Our results show that BioFigRank 
outperforms Non-Author-Out-Domain-Expert and performs as well as 
Non-Author-In-Domain-Expert. Although BioFigRank underperforms First Author, 
since most biomedical researchers are either in- or out-domain-experts for an 
article, we conclude that BioFigRank represents an artificial intelligence 
system that offers expert-level intelligence to help biomedical researchers to 
navigate increasingly proliferated big data efficiently.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0061567
PMCID: PMC3953065
PMID: 24625719 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


520. PLoS One. 2014 Mar 13;9(3):e91690. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0091690. 
eCollection 2014.

Functional gene group analysis indicates no role for heterotrimeric G proteins 
in cognitive ability.

Hill WD(1), de Leeuw C(2), Davies G(3), Liewald DC(3), Payton A(4), Craig LC(5), 
Whalley LJ(6), Horan M(7), Ollier W(4), Starr JM(3), Pendleton N(4), Posthuma 
D(8), Bates TC(1), Deary IJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, University of 
Edinburgh, Edinburgh, United Kingdom; Department of Psychology, University of 
Edinburgh, Edinburgh, United Kingdom.
(2)Center for Neurogenomics and Cognitive Research, Neuroscience Campus 
Amsterdam, Complex Trait Genetics, VU University Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands; Institute for Computing and Information Sciences, Radboud 
University Nijmegen, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
(3)Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, University of 
Edinburgh, Edinburgh, United Kingdom.
(4)Centre for Integrated Genomic Medical Research, University of Manchester, 
Manchester, United Kingdom.
(5)Public Health Nutrition Group, Institute of Applied Health Sciences, 
University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, United Kingdom.
(6)Institute of Applied Health Sciences, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, 
United Kingdom.
(7)Centre for Clinical and Cognitive Neurosciences, Institute of Brain, 
Behaviour and Mental Health, University of Manchester, Manchester, United 
Kingdom.
(8)Center for Neurogenomics and Cognitive Research, Neuroscience Campus 
Amsterdam, Complex Trait Genetics, VU University Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands; Department of Clinical Genetics, VU University Medical Center, 
Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, 
Erasmus University Rotterdam, Sophia Child Hospital, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

Previous functional gene group analyses implicated common single nucleotide 
polymorphisms (SNPs) in heterotrimeric G protein coding genes as being 
associated with differences in human intelligence. Here, we sought to replicate 
this finding using five independent cohorts of older adults including current IQ 
and childhood IQ, and using both gene- and SNP-based analytic strategies. No 
significant associations were found between variation in heterotrimeric G 
protein genes and intelligence in any cohort at either of the two time points. 
These results indicate that, whereas G protein systems are important in 
cognition, common genetic variation in these genes is unlikely to be a 
substantial influence on human intelligence differences.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0091690
PMCID: PMC3953514
PMID: 24626473 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


521. Healthc Inform Res. 2014 Jan;20(1):61-8. doi: 10.4258/hir.2014.20.1.61. Epub 
2014 Jan 31.

Online Learning for Classification of Alzheimer Disease based on Cortical 
Thickness and Hippocampal Shape Analysis.

Lee GY(1), Kim J(2), Kim JH(3), Kim K(4), Seong JK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Korea University, Seoul, Korea.
(2)Department of Computer and Radio Communications Engineering, Korea 
University, Seoul, Korea.
(3)Seoul National University Biomedical informatics (SNUBI), Division of 
Biomedical Informatics, Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul, 
Korea. ; Systems Biomedical Informatics Research Center, Seoul National 
University, Seoul, Korea.
(4)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Seoul National University Bundang Hospital, 
Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seongnam, Korea.

OBJECTIVES: Mobile healthcare applications are becoming a growing trend. Also, 
the prevalence of dementia in modern society is showing a steady growing trend. 
Among degenerative brain diseases that cause dementia, Alzheimer disease (AD) is 
the most common. The purpose of this study was to identify AD patients using 
magnetic resonance imaging in the mobile environment.
METHODS: We propose an incremental classification for mobile healthcare systems. 
Our classification method is based on incremental learning for AD diagnosis and 
AD prediction using the cortical thickness data and hippocampus shape. We 
constructed a classifier based on principal component analysis and linear 
discriminant analysis. We performed initial learning and mobile subject 
classification. Initial learning is the group learning part in our server. Our 
smartphone agent implements the mobile classification and shows various results.
RESULTS: With use of cortical thickness data analysis alone, the discrimination 
accuracy was 87.33% (sensitivity 96.49% and specificity 64.33%). When cortical 
thickness data and hippocampal shape were analyzed together, the achieved 
accuracy was 87.52% (sensitivity 96.79% and specificity 63.24%).
CONCLUSIONS: In this paper, we presented a classification method based on online 
learning for AD diagnosis by employing both cortical thickness data and 
hippocampal shape analysis data. Our method was implemented on smartphone 
devices and discriminated AD patients for normal group.

DOI: 10.4258/hir.2014.20.1.61
PMCID: PMC3950267
PMID: 24627820

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest relevant to 
this article was reported.


522. Adv Biomed Res. 2014 Jan 24;3:50. doi: 10.4103/2277-9175.125771. eCollection 
2014.

Medical academia clinical experiences of Ward Round Teaching curriculum.

Haghani F(1), Arabshahi SK(2), Bigdeli S(2), Alavi M(3), Omid A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Education, Medical Education Research Center, Isfahan 
University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
(2)Department of Medical Education, Faculty of Medicine, Center for Educational 
Research in Medical Sciences, Tehran University of Medical sciences, Tehran, 
Iran.
(3)Nursing and midwifery Care Research Center, Faculty of Nursing & Midwifery, 
Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Medical students spend most of their time in hospital wards and it 
is necessary to study clinical educational opportunities. This study was aimed 
to explore faculty members' experience on Ward Round Teaching content.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: This qualitative study was conducted by purposive 
sampling with the maximum variation of major clinical departments faculty 
members in Isfahan University of Medical Sciences (n = 9). Data gathering was 
based on deep and semi-structured interviews. Data gathering continued till data 
saturation. Data was analyzed through the Collaizzi method and validated. 
Strategies to ensure trustworthiness of data (credibility, dependability, 
conformability, transferability) were employed (Guba and Lincoln).
RESULTS: Basic codes extracted from the analyzed data were categorized into two 
main themes and related subthemes, including (1) tangible teachings (analytic 
intelligence, technical intelligence, legal duties) and (2) implied teachings 
(professionalism, professional discipline, professional difficulties).
CONCLUSION: Ward round teaching is a valuable opportunity for learners to learn 
not only patient care aspects but also ethical values. By appropriate planning, 
opportunities can be used to teach capabilities that are expected of general 
practitioners.

DOI: 10.4103/2277-9175.125771
PMCID: PMC3949336
PMID: 24627858

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None declared.


523. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2014 Jun;29(6):1132-8. doi: 10.1111/jgh.12577.

Evolving endoscopic surgery.

Sakai P(1), Faintuch J.

Author information:
(1)Gastrointestinal Endoscopy Division, Medical School, Sao Paulo University, 
Sao Paulo, Brazil.

Since the days of Albukasim in medieval Spain, natural orifices have been 
regarded not only as a rather repugnant source of bodily odors, fluids and 
excreta, but also as a convenient invitation to explore and treat the inner 
passages of the organism. However, surgical ingenuity needed to be matched by 
appropriate tools and devices. Lack of technologically advanced instrumentation 
was a strong deterrent during almost a millennium until recent decades when a 
quantum jump materialized. Endoscopic surgery is currently a vibrant and growing 
subspecialty, which successfully handles millions of patients every year. 
Additional opportunities lie ahead which might benefit millions more, however, 
requiring even more sophisticated apparatuses, particularly in the field of 
robotics, artificial intelligence, and tissue repair (surgical suturing). This 
is a particularly exciting and worthwhile challenge, namely of larger and safer 
endoscopic interventions, followed by seamless and scarless recovery. In 
synthesis, the future is widely open for those who use together intelligence and 
creativity to develop new prototypes, new accessories and new techniques. Yet 
there are many challenges in the path of endoscopic surgery. In this new era of 
robotic endoscopy, one will likely need a virtual simulator to train and assess 
the performance of younger doctors. More evidence will be essential in multiple 
evolving fields, particularly to elucidate whether more ambitious and complex 
pathways, such as intrathoracic and intraperitoneal surgery via natural orifice 
transluminal endoscopic surgery (NOTES), are superior or not to conventional 
techniques.

© 2014 Journal of Gastroenterology and Hepatology Foundation and Wiley 
Publishing Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jgh.12577
PMID: 24628672 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


524. Med Hypotheses. 2014 May;82(5):615-8. doi: 10.1016/j.mehy.2014.02.020. Epub 2014 
Feb 26.

Expanding upon the 'extreme male brain' theory of autism as a common link 
between other major risk factors: a hypothesis.

Wen W(1), Wen SW(2).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Science, Department of Mathematics and Statistics, University of 
Ottawa, Canada.
(2)OMNI Research Group, Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology, University of 
Ottawa, Ottawa, Canada; Ottawa Hospital Research Institute, Clinical 
Epidemiology Program, Ottawa, Canada; Department of Epidemiology and Community 
Medicine, University of Ottawa, Canada. Electronic address: swwen@ohri.ca.

On average, males have a stronger preference for physical systems and machines 
over interpersonal interactions; they have lower average levels of cognitive 
empathy or social cognition than females; and they have higher rates of 
'extreme' intelligence when it comes to abstract concepts such as those found in 
mathematics and sciences. All three traits are also commonly associated with 
individuals with an autism spectrum disorder or ASD; clearly, it is not 
coincidental that incidence rates of autism are reportedly four times higher in 
males than in females. The common link between the majority of risk factors 
assessed in this review (including technological advancements, advanced parental 
age, socioeconomic status, and genetic predispositions towards ASDs in families 
of scientists and engineers) can be traced to a specific hormone, testosterone. 
It was established that traits which are typically associated with males are 
also typically associated with ASDs as well as individuals with antisocial 
personality disorder, or APD. The key distinction between individuals who are 
considered to be 'autistic' as opposed to those who are considered 'sociopathic' 
lies in the difference between their empathy deficits: whereas those who are 
'autistic' are said to lack cognitive empathy (the ability to identify and 
understand the thoughts and feelings of others and to respond to these with 
appropriate emotions), those who are 'sociopathic' are said to lack emotional 
empathy (which is responsible for inhibiting acts of physical aggression or 
violence). This would explain why autistic individuals can have elevated 
testosterone levels without becoming physically aggressive.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mehy.2014.02.020
PMID: 24629356 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


525. Res Dev Disabil. 2014 May;35(5):952-62. doi: 10.1016/j.ridd.2014.02.012. Epub 
2014 Mar 12.

Commonly studied comorbid psychopathologies among persons with autism spectrum 
disorder.

Matson JL(1), Cervantes PE(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge, LA 70803, 
United States.
(2)Department of Psychology, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge, LA 70803, 
United States. Electronic address: pcerva2@lsu.edu.

The study of comorbid psychopathology among persons with autism spectrum 
disorder (ASD) is picking up steam. The purpose of this paper was to review and 
describe important characteristics of existing studies. Among the current crop 
of papers, depression, anxiety, and attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder 
(ADHD) have been frequently evaluated. Groups studied have most frequently been 
children. Persons with ASD and normal intelligence quotient (IQ) scores have 
been studied more often than individuals with ASD and intellectual disability. 
Additional characteristics are discussed, and the implications of these data for 
future developments in the field are reviewed.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ridd.2014.02.012
PMID: 24629541 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


526. Epilepsy Res. 2014 May;108(4):692-700. doi: 10.1016/j.eplepsyres.2014.02.003. 
Epub 2014 Feb 19.

Regional brain volumes and cognition in childhood epilepsy: does size really 
matter?

Zelko FA(1), Pardoe HR(2), Blackstone SR(3), Jackson GD(4), Berg AT(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Ann and Robert H. Lurie 
Children's Hospital of Chicago, Chicago, IL, United States; Department of 
Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Northwestern University Feinberg School of 
Medicine, Chicago, IL, United States. Electronic address: 
fzelko@luriechildrens.org.
(2)Florey Institute of Neuroscience and Mental Health, Melbourne, Australia; New 
York University School of Medicine, New York, NY, United States.
(3)Department of Public Health, Northern Illinois University, DeKalb, IL, United 
States.
(4)Florey Institute of Neuroscience and Mental Health, Melbourne, Australia; 
Department of Medicine, University of Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria, Australia.
(5)Epilepsy Center, Ann and Robert H. Lurie Children's Hospital of Chicago, 
Chicago, IL, United States; Department of Pediatrics, Northwestern University 
Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, IL, United States.

PURPOSE: Recent studies have correlated neurocognitive function and regional 
brain volumes in children with epilepsy. We tested whether brain volume 
differences between children with and without epilepsy explained differences in 
neurocognitive function.
METHODS: The study sample included 108 individuals with uncomplicated 
non-syndromic epilepsy (NSE) and 36 healthy age- and gender-matched controls. 
Participants received a standardized cognitive battery. Whole brain T1-weighted 
MRI was obtained and volumes analyzed with FreeSurfer (TM).
KEY FINDINGS: Total brain volume (TBV) was significantly smaller in cases. After 
adjustment for TBV, cases had significantly larger regional grey matter volumes 
for total, frontal, parietal, and precentral cortex. Cases had poorer 
performance on neurocognitive indices of intelligence and variability of 
sustained attention. In cases, TBV showed small associations with intellectual 
indices of verbal and perceptual ability, working memory, and overall IQ. In 
controls, TBV showed medium associations with working memory and variability of 
sustained attention. In both groups, small associations were seen between some 
TBV-adjusted regional brain volumes and neurocognitive indices, but not in a 
consistent pattern. Brain volume differences did not account for cognitive 
differences between the groups.
SIGNIFICANCE: Patients with uncomplicated NSE have smaller brains than controls 
but areas of relative grey matter enlargement. That this relative regional 
enlargement occurs in the context of poorer overall neurocognitive functioning 
suggests that it is not adaptive. However, the lack of consistent associations 
between case-control differences in brain volumes and cognitive functioning 
suggests that brain volumes have limited explanatory value for cognitive 
functioning in childhood epilepsy.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eplepsyres.2014.02.003
PMCID: PMC3994880
PMID: 24630049 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


527. Pediatr Neurol. 2014 Apr;50(4):363-7. doi: 10.1016/j.pediatrneurol.2013.12.006. 
Epub 2013 Dec 12.

Long-term neurocognitive outcome and quality of life in pediatric acute 
disseminated encephalomyelitis.

Suppiej A(1), Cainelli E(2), Casara G(3), Cappellari A(3), Nosadini M(3), 
Sartori S(3).

Author information:
(1)Child Neurology and Clinical Neurophysiology, Paediatric University Hospital, 
Padua, Italy. Electronic address: suppiej@pediatria.unipd.it.
(2)Child Neurology and Clinical Neurophysiology, Paediatric University Hospital, 
Padua, Italy; Lifespan Cognitive Neuroscience Laboratory, Department of General 
Psychology, University of Padua, Padua, Italy.
(3)Child Neurology and Clinical Neurophysiology, Paediatric University Hospital, 
Padua, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Acute disseminated encephalomyelitis is an 
inflammatory-demyelinating disorder of the central nervous system usually with a 
monophasic course and a favorable neurological outcome. Long-term neurocognitive 
sequelae and quality of life have not yet been fully investigated.
AIM: To examine neurocognitive outcome and quality of life in pediatric 
monophasic acute disseminated encephalomyelitis.
METHODS: Of the 36 patients diagnosed with acute disseminated encephalomyelitis 
at our institution, six were lost to follow-up and eight relapsed (two with 
multiphasic forms and six with multiple sclerosis). The outcome of the 22 
remaining patients was evaluated using four subscales of the Wechsler 
Intelligence Scales for estimation of IQ, a battery of neuropsychological tests, 
and semistructured and PedsQL questionnaires for quality of life. The effect of 
age at onset, neuroradiological recovery, and time elapsed from the acute event 
on outcome was also investigated.
RESULTS: Estimated IQ, neuropsychological mean group scores, and quality of life 
at follow-up were within the normal range, but 23% of the patients had 
pathological scores in various neuropsychological functions, among which 
attention was the most clearly affected. The neuroradiological recovery was not 
correlated with the result of the neuropsychological tests. Age at onset 
correlated with linguistic skills, whereas the time elapsed from the acute event 
had a significant effect on attention tasks: scores were worse in the group of 
patients with a follow-up shorter than 7 years.
CONCLUSION: Our results suggest that pediatric monophasic acute disseminated 
encephalomyelitis has a favorable neurocognitive outcome. Patients with longer 
follow-up had a better outcome, suggesting a neurocognitive course that is 
different from that of multiple sclerosis and a potential for long-term recovery 
of affected functions.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pediatrneurol.2013.12.006
PMID: 24630282 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


528. Sci Justice. 2014 Mar;54(2):110-7. doi: 10.1016/j.scijus.2013.12.004. Epub 2014 
Jan 3.

Direct detection of blood in fingermarks by MALDI MS profiling and imaging.

Bradshaw R(1), Bleay S(2), Clench MR(1), Francese S(3).

Author information:
(1)Biomedical Research Centre, Sheffield Hallam University, Howard Street, S1 
1WB Sheffield, UK.
(2)Center for Applied Science and Technologies, Home Office, St Albans, 
Hertfordshire AL4 9HQ, UK.
(3)Biomedical Research Centre, Sheffield Hallam University, Howard Street, S1 
1WB Sheffield, UK. Electronic address: s.francese@shu.ac.uk.

The determination of the presence of blood in fingermarks constitutes important 
intelligence in a criminal investigation as it helps to reconstruct the events 
that have taken place at a scene of crime. Various methodologies have been 
reported and are currently employed for the detection of the presence of blood 
including optical, spectroscopic and chemical development approaches. However, 
most methods only give an indication that blood may be present and, therefore, 
these methods are described as presumptive tests. Here we show the use of 
Matrix-Assisted Laser Desorption Ionisation Mass Spectrometry Profiling and 
Imaging (MALDI MSP and MALDI MSI) for the determination of the presence of blood 
in fingermarks by specifically detecting the molecules of haem and haemoglobin 
through their mass-to-charge ratios. Furthermore, preliminary experiments are 
shown which demonstrate that this technology is compatible with other methods 
currently employed for enhancing fingermarks in blood (or contaminated by 
blood). The application of the developed protocols to a crime scene blood trace, 
demonstrates the feasibility of using this technology in routine casework. These 
findings open up a new line of research for the development of robust MALDI MSP 
and MALDI MSI protocols for the detection and chemical imaging of bloodied 
marks.

Copyright © 2013 Forensic Science Society. Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scijus.2013.12.004
PMID: 24630320 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


529. Sci Justice. 2014 Mar;54(2):146-53. doi: 10.1016/j.scijus.2013.09.004. Epub 2013 
Sep 29.

A collaborative approach for incorporating forensic case data into crime 
investigation using criminal intelligence analysis and visualisation.

Rossy Q(1), Ribaux O(2).

Author information:
(1)Institut de Police Scientifique, Université de Lausanne, Batochime, 1015 
Lausanne-Dorigny, Switzerland. Electronic address: quentin.rossy@unil.ch.
(2)Institut de Police Scientifique, Université de Lausanne, Batochime, 1015 
Lausanne-Dorigny, Switzerland.

There is an increasing awareness that the articulation of forensic science and 
criminal investigation is critical to the resolution of crimes. However, models 
and methods to support an effective collaboration between the partners are still 
poorly expressed or even lacking. Three propositions are borrowed from crime 
intelligence methods in order to bridge this gap: (a) the general intelligence 
process, (b) the analyses of investigative problems along principal 
perspectives: entities and their relationships, time and space, quantitative 
aspects and (c) visualisation methods as a mode of expression of a problem in 
these dimensions. Indeed, in a collaborative framework, different kinds of 
visualisations integrating forensic case data can play a central role for 
supporting decisions. Among them, link-charts are scrutinised for their 
abilities to structure and ease the analysis of a case by describing how 
relevant entities are connected. However, designing an informative chart that 
does not bias the reasoning process is not straightforward. Using visualisation 
as a catalyser for a collaborative approach integrating forensic data thus calls 
for better specifications.

© 2013.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scijus.2013.09.004
PMID: 24630325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


530. Hematol Oncol Stem Cell Ther. 2014 Jun;7(2):76-84. doi: 
10.1016/j.hemonc.2014.01.002. Epub 2014 Mar 11.

Psychiatric morbidity in Egyptian children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia and 
their care providers.

Khalifa AS(1), Bishry Z(2), Tantawy AA(1), Ghanem MH(2), Effat SM(2), El Shahawy 
H(2), Ebeid FS(3).

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Department, Faculty of Medicine, Ain Shams University, Cairo, 
Egypt.
(2)Neuropsychiatry Department, Faculty of Medicine, Ain Shams University, Cairo, 
Egypt.
(3)Pediatric Department, Faculty of Medicine, Ain Shams University, Cairo, 
Egypt. Electronic address: dr.fatma_ebeid@yahoo.com.

AIM OF THE STUDY: To evaluate the psychological morbidity of acute lymphoblastic 
leukemia (ALL) on children and their parents at different stages of illness and 
to assess the crucial contribution of the psychologist in the pediatric oncology 
team.
METHODS: We recruited 103 children with ALL and their 96 parents, and divided 
them into five groups according to disease phase: diagnosis, initial remission, 
active treatment, survival and relapsing. We compared these to 22 healthy 
controls and their parents. Patients and controls were subjected to clinical 
assessments, the symptoms checklist of the International Classification of 
Disease ICD (ICD-10), and the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children The 
parents of patients and controls underwent a general health questionnaire, the 
ICD-10 symptoms checklist, rating scales for anxiety and depression, 
post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) assessment scale, and the physical 
cognitive affective social economic ego problems (PCASEE) questionnaire for 
quality of life (QOL) rating.
RESULTS: Psychiatric morbidity was evident in nearly 60% of leukemic children 
and their parents and was significantly increased in comparison to controls. 
Children mostly suffered from adjustment and oppositional defiant disorders. The 
most common discriminators between patient groups were conduct and attention 
problems being lowest in newly diagnosed patients, and social aggression being 
lowest in patients in remission. The three parameters were highest in relapsed 
patients whose parents mostly had adjustment and depressive disorders. Risk 
factors for child psychopathology were older age, female gender, and parental 
psychopathology. Mothers and parents with lower education and professional level 
were found to be vulnerable. Performance and total intelligence quotient (IQ) 
were significantly lower in leukemic children, and these were most pronounced in 
the survivor group. Risk factors for cognitive dysfunction were younger age, 
longer chemotherapy duration, and lower parental education level.
CONCLUSION: Most patients and their caregivers suffered from significant 
psychiatric morbidity, highlighting the need for routine screening to improve 
psychological outcomes in such cases.

Copyright © 2014 King Faisal Specialist Hospital & Research Centre. Published by 
Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.hemonc.2014.01.002
PMID: 24631570 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


531. Nanomedicine. 2014 Jul;10(5):889-96. doi: 10.1016/j.nano.2014.03.001. Epub 2014 
Mar 12.

Nano-enabled drug delivery: a research profile.

Zhou X(1), Porter AL(2), Robinson DK(3), Shim MS(4), Guo Y(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Management and Economics, Beijing Institute of Technology, Beijing, 
China.
(2)Emeritus, Industrial & Systems Engineering, and Public Policy, Georgia Tech, 
Atlanta, GA, USA; Technology Policy & Assessment Center, Georgia Tech, Atlanta, 
GA, USA; R&D, Search Technology, Inc., Georgia Tech, Atlanta, GA, USA. 
Electronic address: alan.porter@isye.gatech.edu.
(3)TEQNODE Limited and IFRIS-LATTS, Université de Paris-Est, France.
(4)Division of Bioengineering, Incheon National University, Incheon, Republic of 
Korea.

Nano-enabled drug delivery (NEDD) systems are rapidly emerging as a key area for 
nanotechnology application. Understanding the status and developmental prospects 
of this area around the world is important to determine research priorities, and 
to evaluate and direct progress. Global research publication and patent 
databases provide a reservoir of information that can be tapped to provide 
intelligence for such needs. Here, we present a process to allow for extraction 
of NEDD-related information from these databases by involving topical experts. 
This process incorporates in-depth analysis of NEDD literature review papers to 
identify key subsystems and major topics. We then use these to structure global 
analysis of NEDD research topical trends and collaborative patterns, inform 
future innovation directions.
FROM THE CLINICAL EDITOR: This paper describes the process of how to derive 
nano-enabled drug delivery-related information from global research and patent 
databases in an effort to perform comprehensive global analysis of research 
trends and directions, along with collaborative patterns.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nano.2014.03.001
PMID: 24632245 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


532. Epilepsy Behav. 2014 Apr;33:39-44. doi: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2014.02.002. Epub 2014 
Mar 13.

Cognition, academic achievement, and epilepsy in school-age children: a 
case-control study in a developing country.

Melbourne Chambers R(1), Morrison-Levy N(2), Chang S(3), Tapper J(4), Walker 
S(5), Tulloch-Reid M(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Child and Adolescent Health, University of the West Indies 
(UWI), Mona, Jamaica. Electronic address: 
roxanne.melbournechambers@uwimona.edu.jm.
(2)Bustamante Hospital for Children, Arthur Wint Drive, Kingston, Jamaica. 
Electronic address: nadinelevy.morrison74@gmail.com.
(3)Epidemiology Research Unit, Tropical Medicine Research Institute, UWI, Mona, 
Jamaica. Electronic address: susan.changlopez@uwimona.edu.jm.
(4)Bustamante Hospital for Children, Arthur Wint Drive, Kingston, Jamaica. 
Electronic address: judymtapper@yahoo.com.
(5)Epidemiology Research Unit, Tropical Medicine Research Institute, UWI, Mona, 
Jamaica. Electronic address: susan.walker@uwimona.edu.jm.
(6)Epidemiology Research Unit, Tropical Medicine Research Institute, UWI, Mona, 
Jamaica. Electronic address: marshall.tullochreid@uwimona.edu.jm.

We conducted a case-control study of 33 Jamaican children 7 to 12years old with 
uncomplicated epilepsy and 33 of their classroom peers matched for age and 
gender to determine whether epilepsy resulted in differences in cognitive 
ability and school achievement and if socioeconomic status or the environment 
had a moderating effect on any differences. Intelligence, language, memory, 
attention, executive function, and mathematics ability were assessed using 
selected tests from NEPSY, WISCR, TeaCh, WRAT3 - expanded, and Raven's Coloured 
Progressive Matrices. The child's environment at home was measured using the 
Middle Childhood HOME inventory. Socioeconomic status was determined from a 
combination of household, crowding, possessions, and sanitation. We compared the 
characteristics of the cases and controls and used random effects regression 
models (using the matched pair as the cluster) to examine the relationship 
between cognition and epilepsy. We found that there was no significant 
difference in IQ, but children with epilepsy had lower scores on tests of memory 
(p<0.05), language (p<0.05), and attention (p<0.01) compared with their 
controls. In random effects models, epilepsy status had a significant effect on 
memory (coefficient=-0.14, CI: -0.23, -0.05), language (coefficient=-0.13, CI: 
-0.23, -0.04), and mathematics ability (coefficient=-0.01, CI: -0.02, -0.00). 
Adjustment for the home environment and socioeconomic status and inclusion of 
interaction terms for these variables did not alter these effects. In 
conclusion, we found that epilepsy status in Jamaican children has a significant 
effect on performance on tests of memory, language, and mathematics and that 
this effect is not modified or explained by socioeconomic status or the child's 
home environment.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2014.02.002
PMID: 24632351 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


533. PLoS One. 2014 Mar 14;9(3):e91773. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0091773. 
eCollection 2014.

Individual variation in contagious yawning susceptibility is highly stable and 
largely unexplained by empathy or other known factors.

Bartholomew AJ(1), Cirulli ET(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Human Genome Variation, Duke University School of Medicine, 
Durham, North Carolina, United States of America.

The contagious aspect of yawning is a well-known phenomenon that exhibits 
variation in the human population. Despite the observed variation, few studies 
have addressed its intra-individual reliability or the factors modulating 
differences in the susceptibility of healthy volunteers. Due to its obvious 
biological basis and impairment in diseases like autism and schizophrenia, a 
better understanding of this trait could lead to novel insights into these 
conditions and the general biological functioning of humans. We administered 328 
participants a 3-minute yawning video stimulus, a cognitive battery, and a 
comprehensive questionnaire that included measures of empathy, emotional 
contagion, circadian energy rhythms, and sleepiness. Individual contagious 
yawning measurements were found to be highly stable across testing sessions, 
both in a lab setting and if administered remotely online, confirming that 
certain healthy individuals are less susceptible to contagious yawns than are 
others. Additionally, most individuals who failed to contagiously yawn in our 
study were not simply suppressing their reaction, as they reported not even 
feeling like yawning in response to the stimulus. In contrast to previous 
studies indicating that empathy, time of day, or intelligence may influence 
contagious yawning susceptibility, we found no influence of these variables once 
accounting for the age of the participant. Participants were less likely to show 
contagious yawning as their age increased, even when restricting to ages of less 
than 40 years. However, age was only able to explain 8% of the variability in 
the contagious yawn response. The vast majority of the variability in this 
extremely stable trait remained unexplained, suggesting that studies of its 
inheritance are warranted.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0091773
PMCID: PMC3954725
PMID: 24632594 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


534. Eur Child Adolesc Psychiatry. 2015 Jan;24(1):55-63. doi: 
10.1007/s00787-014-0533-z. Epub 2014 Mar 17.

Serum matrix metalloproteinase-9 levels and severity of symptoms in boys with 
attention deficit hyperactivity disorder ADHD/hyperkinetic disorder HKD.

Kadziela-Olech H(1), Cichocki P, Chwiesko J, Konstantynowicz J, Braszko JJ.

Author information:
(1)Medical University, Bialystok, Podlaskie, Poland, 
halina.kadziela-olech@umb.edu.pl.

The serum levels of matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) in neuropsychiatric 
disorders of adults have been widely investigated. So far, no studies have been 
conducted on the relationship of MMP-9 and cognitive domains in children with 
two phenotype models, attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder and hyperkinetic 
disorder (ADHD/HKD). The aim of this research was to evaluate and test the 
hypothesis that serum MMP-9 levels are associated with the severity of symptoms 
in children with ADHD/HKD and to compare the results in two models of this 
disorder. The study group comprised 37 Caucasian boys aged 7-12 years with HKD, 
being a subset of the combined ADHD subtype. Intellectual functions were 
measured using Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children-Revised. The analysis of 
serum concentrations of MMP-9 was based on a quantitative sandwich ELISA. The 
statistical regression analysis revealed a correlation between increased serum 
MMP-9 levels and severity of symptoms in the ADHD (β = 0.33; p = 0.043) and HKD 
(β = 0.34, p = 0.037) model. According to the results, elevated levels of serum 
MMP-9 in boys with HKD may be associated with clinical impulsivity domain (β = 
0.38; p = 0.019).

DOI: 10.1007/s00787-014-0533-z
PMCID: PMC4291510
PMID: 24633733 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


535. Intelligence. 2014 Mar 1;43:1-7. doi: 10.1016/j.intell.2013.12.002.

Relations between Running Memory and Fluid Intelligence.

Salthouse TA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology University of Virginia Charlottesville, VA 
22904-4400 Salthouse@gmail.com.

A total of 1,734 adults performed two running memory tasks and a battery of 
cognitive tests representing four cognitive abilities. Simultaneous analyses 
were used to identify unique relations of each cognitive ability, including 
fluid intelligence, on the running memory measures. The large sample size 
allowed powerful analyses of the relations at the level of individual trials, 
separate list lengths, and different serial positions. The results indicated 
that the relations of running memory performance with cognitive abilities were 
remarkably constant from the first to the last trial, across different list 
lengths, and on successive input positions. It is proposed that an important 
aspect of fluid intelligence is the ability to cope with novelty and complexity, 
and that running memory tasks may merely be one of many ways in which those 
processes can be operationalized.

DOI: 10.1016/j.intell.2013.12.002
PMCID: PMC3951980
PMID: 24634555


536. J Hum Evol. 2014 Jun;71:77-86. doi: 10.1016/j.jhevol.2014.02.009. Epub 2014 Mar 
15.

Seasonality, extractive foraging and the evolution of primate sensorimotor 
intelligence.

Melin AD(1), Young HC(2), Mosdossy KN(3), Fedigan LM(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, Dartmouth College, 6047 Silsby Hall, Hanover, NH, 
USA; Department of Anthropology, Washington University, One Brookings Drive, St. 
Louis, MO 63130, USA. Electronic address: amanda.meachem@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Calgary, 2500 University 
Drive, Calgary, AB T2N 1N4, Canada.
(3)Department of Anthropology, University of Calgary, 2500 University Drive, 
Calgary, AB T2N 1N4, Canada.

The parallel evolution of increased sensorimotor intelligence in humans and 
capuchins has been linked to the cognitive and manual demands of seasonal 
extractive faunivory. This hypothesis is attractive on theoretical grounds, but 
it has eluded widespread acceptance due to lack of empirical data. For instance, 
the effects of seasonality on the extractive foraging behaviors of capuchins are 
largely unknown. Here we report foraging observations on four groups of wild 
capuchins (Cebus capucinus) inhabiting a seasonally dry tropical forest. We also 
measured intra-annual variation in temperature, rainfall, and food abundance. We 
found that the exploitation of embedded or mechanically protected invertebrates 
was concentrated during periods of fruit scarcity. Such a pattern suggests that 
embedded insects are best characterized as a fallback food for capuchins. We 
discuss the implications of seasonal extractive faunivory for the evolution of 
sensorimotor intelligence (SMI) in capuchins and hominins and suggest that the 
suite of features associated with SMI, including increased manual dexterity, 
tool use, and innovative problem solving are cognitive adaptations among 
frugivores that fall back seasonally on extractable foods. The selective 
pressures acting on SMI are predicted to be strongest among primates living in 
the most seasonal environments. This model is proffered to explain the 
differences in tool use between capuchin lineages, and SMI as an adaptation to 
extractive foraging is suggested to play an important role in hominin evolution.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhevol.2014.02.009
PMID: 24636732 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


537. Autism Res. 2014 Jun;7(3):322-33. doi: 10.1002/aur.1368. Epub 2014 Mar 17.

Classification of children with autism spectrum disorder by sensory subtype: a 
case for sensory-based phenotypes.

Lane AE(1), Molloy CA, Bishop SL.

Author information:
(1)School of Health Sciences, University of Newcastle, Callaghan, New South 
Wales, Australia.

This study examines whether sensory differences can be used to classify 
meaningful subgroups of children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD). Caregivers 
of children with ASD aged 2-10 years (n = 228) completed the Short Sensory 
Profile. Model-based cluster analysis was used to extract sensory subtypes. The 
relationship of these subtypes to age, gender, autism symptom severity, and 
nonverbal intelligence quotient (IQ) was further explored. Four distinct sensory 
subtypes were identified: (a) sensory adaptive; (b) taste smell sensitive; (c) 
postural inattentive; and (d) generalized sensory difference. The sensory 
subtypes differ from each other on two dimensions: (a) the severity of reported 
sensory differences; and (b) the focus of differences across auditory, taste, 
smell, vestibular and proprioceptive domains. Examination of the clinical 
features of each subtype reveals two possible mechanisms of sensory disturbance 
in autism: (a) sensory hyperreactivity; and (b) difficulties with multisensory 
processing. Further, the sensory subtypes are not well explained by other 
variables such as age, gender, IQ, and autism symptom severity. We conclude that 
classification of children using sensory differences offers a promising method 
by which to identify phenotypes in ASD. Sensory-based phenotypes may be useful 
in identifying behavioral features responsive to specific interventions thereby 
improving intervention effectiveness. Further validation of the sensory-based 
phenotypes by establishing neural and physiological correlates is recommended.

© 2014 International Society for Autism Research, Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/aur.1368
PMID: 24639147 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


538. Rev Med Suisse. 2014 Feb 19;10(418):450-3.

[Neurodevelopmental outcome of very premature infants].

[Article in French]

Bickle Graz M, Newman CJ, Borradori-Tolsa C.

Very preterm infants are at risk of neurodevelopmental impairments, which may 
affect motor development, intelligence and behavior. Neurodevelopmental 
follow-up is offered to these children who represent 1% of Swiss births, and may 
show abnormal motor tone, which sometimes resolves spontaneously or evolves in 
cerebral palsy. Standardized tests explore intellectual functioning and may 
allow the diagnosis of specific learning impediments. Finally, behavior is 
assessed with standardized questionnaires which can reveal hyperactivity with or 
without attention deficit, impaired social relations, psychiatric troubles or 
autism, all more frequent amongst preterm children.

PMID: 24640281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


539. Seishin Shinkeigaku Zasshi. 2014;116(1):15-45.

[Persistent depression with minute schizophrenia-like symptoms--from the 
viewpoint of "pluridimensional psychiatry"].

[Article in Japanese]

Tanaka S.

AIM: When clinicians follow today's diagnostic trend which gives priority to 
mood disorders, they risk overlooking mild manifestations of schizophrenia-like 
symptoms. This study was aimed at investigating clinical features of patients 
with a prolonged depressive state for years, showing minute schizophrenia-like 
symptoms without any full-fledged psychotic symptoms.
METHOD: The subjects were 170 male inpatients with depression or a depressive 
state who were admitted to Kyorin University Hospital between April 200X and 
March 200X + 3. One of the reasons for their admission was to make a 
differential diagnosis. The diagnoses of fifteen patients (mean age at onset: 
29.5 +/- 8.5 years, and mean age at their first visit to a psychiatrist: 34.3 
+/- 10.0 years), who had been diagnosed with depression and treated with various 
kinds of antidepressants for years (mean period: 4.9 +/- 3.4 years) were changed 
to persistent depression with minute schizophrenia-like symptoms according to 
"pluridimensional assessment," which takes the following factors into 
consideration: a premorbid character, predicting situations or life events, 
clinical features, psychological tests, reactions to treatment, and the course 
and social outcome. The psychopathology of these fifteen patients was closely 
investigated.
RESULTS: The investigation revealed that: 1) All patients had a premorbid 
"schizoid tendency", which was defined as more than two of three character 
markers of "Schizothymie", described by E. Kretschmer. 2) Most of the patients 
clinically manifested after low-level psychosocial stress had activated 
hypersensitivity to the surroundings. 3) In addition to depressive symptoms 
delineated in Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth 
Edition, Text Revision (DSM-IV-TR), clinical features included repeated physical 
complaints, which were poorly explained, suicidal behaviors without any 
understandable conflicts, unexpected arrogant attitudes toward medical staff and 
other patients, and superficial, simplistic, and monotonous speech and odd 
thoughts. They were regarded as minute symptoms of schizophrenia, which should 
not be overlooked. 4) They showed clear evidence of severe cognitive impairment 
in the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale third edition (WAIS-III) and in the 
Landscape Montage Technique (LMT). The results of these psychological tests, 
which should be assessed as reference materials in a clinical diagnosis, were 
low and bizarre when their premorbid social functioning was considered, which 
may be concordant with their latest defective social functioning. 5) 
Pharmacotherapy involving any kind of antidepressant had not been effective, 
and, in some patients switching to or adding antipsychotic drugs effectively 
reduced their minute schizophrenia-like symptoms, hypersensitivity, and loss of 
motivation. 6) Two patients committed suicide, three were demoted from regular 
to contractual employment, and the others are now undergoing rehabilitation 
together with schizophrenic patients in regional day-care and occupational 
therapy centers.
CONCLUSIONS: Clinicians should explore the possibility that manifested mood 
changes conceal minute schizophrenia-like symptoms. Such patients should be 
pluridimensionally assessed. Therapeutic strategies for schizophrenic patients 
may be more appropriate for the patients investigated in this study.

PMID: 24640550 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


540. Nicotine Tob Res. 2014 Jul;16(7):1000-8. doi: 10.1093/ntr/ntu022. Epub 2014 Mar 
18.

Legislation enforcement of the waterpipe tobacco industry: a qualitative 
analysis of the London experience.

Jawad M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Primary Care and Public Health, Imperial College London, London 
W6 8RP, UK mohammed.jawad06@imperial.ac.uk.

INTRODUCTION: Waterpipe tobacco smoking (WTS) is prevalent worldwide and is 
legislatively enforceable under many countries' existing tobacco laws. Globally, 
however, the waterpipe tobacco industry anecdotally appears poorly controlled. 
This study aimed to gather intelligence from local government (known as local 
authority [LA]) staff in London, United Kingdom, about their WTS enforcement 
experiences.
METHODS: In-depth telephone interviews were conducted among 26 LA staff from 14 
London boroughs, exploring industry characteristics and tobacco legislation 
compliance. Recurrent themes were analyzed and derived deductively.
RESULTS: Approximately 400 waterpipe premises operate across London, benefiting 
from high profit margins. LA staff are resource strained, limiting their 
surveillance of waterpipe premises, some of which are associated with an 
underground culture. Noise and nuisance are key features of waterpipe premises. 
Most waterpipe premises were generally noncompliant with most aspects of 
existing tobacco legislation, mainly due to disproportionately low fines and 
unclear legislation enforcement guidance. Successful methods for enforcing 
legislation included a synchronized, multiagency approach; however, this was 
inconsistently implemented across boroughs. Many LA staff believe licensing 
waterpipe premises will improve surveillance and control the industry's 
proliferation.
CONCLUSIONS: The waterpipe tobacco industry is unregulated and places a 
significant burden on many LAs in London, mainly due to lack of resources. These 
problems may also occur in other large cities worldwide. Existing tobacco 
legislation should be amended to accommodate WTS, including consideration of 
licensing the industry. More research is needed to gain a full understanding of 
the waterpipe tobacco industry and its impact on other global cities.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society 
for Research on Nicotine and Tobacco. All rights reserved. For permissions, 
please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/ntr/ntu022
PMID: 24642591 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


541. Br J Sports Med. 2014 May;48(10):810-3. doi: 10.1136/bjsports-2014-093531. Epub 
2014 Mar 18.

A forensic perspective of the AFL investigation into peptides: an antidoping 
investigation case study.

Harcourt PR(1), Marclay F, Clothier B.

Author information:
(1)Australian Football League, , Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.

BACKGROUND: The World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) is introducing enhancements to 
doping investigations in its 2015 Code, which include improved sharing of 
information between antidoping organisations (including sporting bodies) and 
enhanced accountability of athlete support staff. These additions will improve 
the control of links between sports doping and organised crime. In February 2013 
the Australian Crime Commission released a report that linked several 
professional sporting codes, professional athletes with links to organised 
crime, performance enhancing drugs and illicit substances. Following this report 
the Australian Football League (AFL) partnered the Australian national 
antidoping organisation to investigate peptide use in Australian football.
METHODS: This review compared the model proposed by Marclay, a hypothetical 
model for anti-doping investigations that proposed a forensic intelligence and 
analysis approach, to use the forensic capabilities of the AFL investigation to 
test the model's relevance to an actual case.
RESULTS: The investigation uncovered the use of peptides used to enhance athlete 
performance. The AFL investigation found a high risk of doping where athlete 
support staff existed in teams with weak corporate governance controls. A 
further finding included the need for the investigation to provide a timely 
response in professional team sports that were sensitive to the competition 
timing. In the case of the AFL the team was sanctioned prior to the finals as an 
interim outcome for allowing the risk of use of performance-enhancing 
substances. Doping violation charges are still being considered.
DISCUSSION: Antidoping strategies should include the investigation of corporate 
officers in team doping circumstances, the mandatory recording of all athlete 
substance use during competition and training phases, the wider sharing of 
forensic intelligence with non-sporting bodies particularly law enforcement and 
collaboration between antidoping and sporting organisations in doping 
investigations.
CONCLUSIONS: The AFL investigation illustrated the importance of the 2015 WADA 
Code changes and highlighted the need for a systematic use of broad forensic 
intelligence activities in the investigation of doping violations.

DOI: 10.1136/bjsports-2014-093531
PMID: 24642697 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


542. PLoS One. 2014 Mar 18;9(3):e92372. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0092372. 
eCollection 2014.

Prepulse inhibition of the acoustic startle reflex in high functioning autism.

Kohl S(1), Wolters C(1), Gruendler TO(2), Vogeley K(3), Klosterkötter J(1), Kuhn 
J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department for Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University Hospital of Cologne, 
Cologne, North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany.
(2)Department for Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University Hospital of Cologne, 
Cologne, North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany; Department of Economics, 
Otto-von-Guericke-University, Magdeburg, Saxony-Anhalt, Germany; Center for 
Behavioral Brain Sciences, Magdeburg, Saxony-Anhalt, Germany.
(3)Department for Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University Hospital of Cologne, 
Cologne, North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany; Institute for Neuroscience and 
Medicine - Cognitive Neuroscience (INM3), Research Center Juelich, Juelich, 
North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany.

BACKGROUND: High functioning autism is an autism spectrum disorder that is 
characterized by deficits in social interaction and communication as well as 
repetitive and restrictive behavior while intelligence and general cognitive 
functioning are preserved. According to the weak central coherence account, 
individuals with autism tend to process information detail-focused at the 
expense of global form. This processing bias might be reflected by deficits in 
sensorimotor gating, a mechanism that prevents overstimulation during the 
transformation of sensory input into motor action. Prepulse inhibition is an 
operational measure of sensorimotor gating, which indicates an extensive 
attenuation of the startle reflex that occurs when a startling pulse is preceded 
by a weaker stimulus, the prepulse.
METHODS: In the present study, prepulse inhibition of acoustic startle was 
compared between 17 adults with high functioning autism and 17 sex-, age-, and 
intelligence-matched controls by means of electromyography.
RESULTS: Results indicate that participants with high functioning autism 
exhibited significantly higher startle amplitudes than the control group. 
However, groups did not differ with regard to PPI or habituation of startle.
DISCUSSION: These findings challenge the results of two previous studies that 
reported prepulse inhibition deficits in high-functioning autism and suggest 
that sensorimotor gating is only impaired in certain subgroups with autism 
spectrum disorder.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0092372
PMCID: PMC3958534
PMID: 24643088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


543. Dev Med Child Neurol. 2014 Jul;56(7):635-41. doi: 10.1111/dmcn.12432. Epub 2014 
Mar 21.

Cognitive development in children with new onset epilepsy.

Rathouz PJ(1), Zhao Q, Jones JE, Jackson DC, Hsu DA, Stafstrom CE, Seidenberg M, 
Hermann BP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics & Medical Informatics, University of Wisconsin 
School of Medicine and Public Health, Madison, WI, USA.

Comment in
    Dev Med Child Neurol. 2014 Jul;56(7):605-6.

AIM: To characterize the prospective trajectory of cognitive development in 
children with new or recent onset epilepsy from baseline to 5 to 6 years after 
diagnosis.
METHOD: Sixty-nine children (40 males, 29 females; age 8-18y), with new or 
recent onset epilepsies underwent neuropsychological assessment shortly after 
diagnosis (Wave 1), 2 years (Wave 2), and 5 to 6 years after diagnosis (Wave 3). 
Intelligence, academic achievement, language, executive function, and 
psychomotor speed were evaluated. Sixty-two children (28 males, 34 females; age 
8-18) with typical development served as a comparison group at each time point. 
The cognitive data were examined by syndrome (localization-related epilepsy 
[LRE]; idiopathic generalized epilepsy [IGE]; comparison group). Mixed effect 
regression models compared trajectories among groups with respect to time since 
diagnosis.
RESULTS: Cognitive abnormalities exhibited by children with epilepsy in 
arithmetic computation, response inhibition, attention, fine motor dexterity, 
and psychomotor speed (all p values <0.001), are detectable at or near the time 
of diagnosis and largely remain stable over the ensuing 5 to 6 years without 
evidence of progressive worsening or recovery. This course is evident across 
both LRE and IGE groups, with the LRE group performing better for some outcomes 
(arithmetic, response inhibition, psychomotor speed) and never worse than the 
IGE group.
INTERPRETATION: Cognitive development in children with LRE and IGE is not 
characterized by progressive deterioration or lack of age-appropriate 
development; rather, development lags behind that of children with typical 
development. Cognitive abnormalities, when detected, are present near the time 
of diagnosis, persist over time, and require early intervention.

© 2014 Mac Keith Press.

DOI: 10.1111/dmcn.12432
PMCID: PMC4057956
PMID: 24650092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have stated that they had no 
interests that might be perceived as posing a conflict or bias.


544. Am J Prev Med. 2014 Apr;46(4):409-12. doi: 10.1016/j.amepre.2013.11.003.

E-cigarette advertising expenditures in the U.S., 2011-2012.

Kim AE(1), Arnold KY(2), Makarenko O(2).

Author information:
(1)RTI International, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina. Electronic 
address: akim@rti.org.
(2)RTI International, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina.

BACKGROUND: Electronic cigarettes (e-cigarettes) are growing in popularity, but 
little is known about the extent to which these products are advertised to 
consumers.
PURPOSE: To estimate expenditures for e-cigarette advertising in magazines, TV, 
the Internet, newspapers, and radio in the U.S. from 2011 to 2012.
METHODS: E-cigarette advertising data were obtained from leading media 
intelligence companies, Kantar Media and Nielsen. Estimated e-cigarette 
advertising expenditures were summarized across media channels for 2011 and 
2012. Additional information on brands advertised and market-level buys (i.e., 
local versus national) also was examined.
RESULTS: Overall, e-cigarette advertising expenditures across media channels 
tripled from $6.4 million in 2011 to $18.3 million in 2012. Expenditures were 
highest in magazines and TV and lowest in newspapers and on the Internet. More 
than 80 unique brands were advertised, but blu eCigs dominated ad spending, 
comprising 76.7% of all e-cigarette advertising expenditures in 2012. National 
markets were increasingly targeted from 54.9% of ad buys in 2011 to 87.0% of ad 
buys in 2012.
CONCLUSIONS: E-cigarette advertising expenditures are increasing, with a greater 
focus on national markets and TV ads, which will likely increase consumer 
awareness and use of e-cigarettes in the future. Federal-level efforts are 
needed to mandate that e-cigarette companies report their advertising 
expenditures. Future studies should examine how e-cigarette advertising 
expenditures and message content influence consumer awareness of, interest in, 
and use of e-cigarettes.

© 2013 American Journal of Preventive Medicine Published by American Journal of 
Preventive Medicine All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amepre.2013.11.003
PMID: 24650844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


545. IEEE Trans Vis Comput Graph. 2014 Apr;20(4):523-30. doi: 10.1109/TVCG.2014.33.

Mixed reality virtual pets to reduce childhood obesity.

Johnsen K(1), Ahn SJ(1), Moore J(1), Brown S(1), Robertson TP(1), Marable A(1), 
Basu A(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Georgia.

Novel approaches are needed to reduce the high rates of childhood obesity in the 
developed world. While multifactorial in cause, a major factor is an 
increasingly sedentary lifestyle of children. Our research shows that a mixed 
reality system that is of interest to children can be a powerful motivator of 
healthy activity. We designed and constructed a mixed reality system that 
allowed children to exercise, play with, and train a virtual pet using their own 
physical activity as input. The health, happiness, and intelligence of each 
virtual pet grew as its associated child owner exercised more, reached goals, 
and interacted with their pet. We report results of a research study involving 
61 children from a local summer camp that shows a large increase in recorded and 
observed activity, alongside observational evidence that the virtual pet was 
responsible for that change. These results, and the ease at which the system 
integrated into the camp environment, demonstrate the practical potential to 
impact the exercise behaviors of children with mixed reality.

DOI: 10.1109/TVCG.2014.33
PMID: 24650979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


546. PLoS One. 2014 Mar 20;9(3):e81237. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0081237. 
eCollection 2014.

Perceived intelligence is associated with measured intelligence in men but not 
women.

Kleisner K(1), Chvátalová V(1), Flegr J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Philosophy and History of Science, Faculty of Science, Charles 
University in Prague, Czech Republic.

BACKGROUND: The ability to accurately assess the intelligence of other persons 
finds its place in everyday social interaction and should have important 
evolutionary consequences.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We used static facial photographs of 40 men and 
40 women to test the relationship between measured IQ, perceived intelligence, 
and facial shape. Both men and women were able to accurately evaluate the 
intelligence of men by viewing facial photographs. In addition to general 
intelligence, figural and fluid intelligence showed a significant relationship 
with perceived intelligence, but again, only in men. No relationship between 
perceived intelligence and IQ was found for women. We used geometric 
morphometrics to determine which facial traits are associated with the 
perception of intelligence, as well as with intelligence as measured by IQ 
testing. Faces that are perceived as highly intelligent are rather prolonged 
with a broader distance between the eyes, a larger nose, a slight upturn to the 
corners of the mouth, and a sharper, pointing, less rounded chin. By contrast, 
the perception of lower intelligence is associated with broader, more rounded 
faces with eyes closer to each other, a shorter nose, declining corners of the 
mouth, and a rounded and massive chin. By contrast, we found no correlation 
between morphological traits and real intelligence measured with IQ test, either 
in men or women.
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that a perceiver can accurately gauge the 
real intelligence of men, but not women, by viewing their faces in photographs; 
however, this estimation is possibly not based on facial shape. Our study 
revealed no relation between intelligence and either attractiveness or face 
shape.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0081237
PMCID: PMC3961208
PMID: 24651120 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The third author of this 
study, Jaroslav Flegr, head of IRB of the Faculty of Science, Charles 
University, was involved in the process of ethical evaluation of Karel 
Kleisner's project in March, 2010. He was not involved in the research at the 
time. He and his PhD student, Veronika Chvátalová, joined the project two years 
later, in May 2012. Karel Kleisner's research has been subject to a process of 
ethical re-evaluation after this point and Jaroslav Flegr was not involved in 
this evaluation.


547. Psychol Res. 2014 Nov;78(6):821-35. doi: 10.1007/s00426-014-0559-3. Epub 2014 
Mar 21.

Individual differences in cognitive plasticity: an investigation of training 
curves in younger and older adults.

Bürki CN(1), Ludwig C, Chicherio C, de Ribaupierre A.

Author information:
(1)Felix Platter-Hospital, University Center for Medicine of Aging Basel, Basel, 
Switzerland, Celine.Buerki@usb.ch.

To date, cognitive intervention research has provided mixed but nevertheless 
promising evidence with respect to the effects of cognitive training on 
untrained tasks (transfer). However, the mechanisms behind learning, training 
effects and their predictors are not fully understood. Moreover, individual 
differences, which may constitute an important factor impacting training 
outcome, are usually neglected. We suggest investigating individual training 
performance across training sessions in order to gain finer-grained knowledge of 
training gains, on the one hand, and assessing the potential impact of 
predictors such as age and fluid intelligence on learning rate, on the other 
hand. To this aim, we propose to model individual learning curves to examine the 
intra-individual change in training as well as inter-individual differences in 
intra-individual change. We recommend introducing a latent growth curve model 
(LGCM) analysis, a method frequently applied to learning data but rarely used in 
cognitive training research. Such advanced analyses of the training phase allow 
identifying factors to be respected when designing effective tailor-made 
training interventions. To illustrate the proposed approach, a LGCM analysis 
using data of a 10-day working memory training study in younger and older adults 
is reported.

DOI: 10.1007/s00426-014-0559-3
PMID: 24652343 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


548. Age (Dordr). 2014 Jun;36(3):9638. doi: 10.1007/s11357-014-9638-z. Epub 2014 Mar 
21.

Alcohol consumption and lifetime change in cognitive ability: a gene × 
environment interaction study.

Ritchie SJ(1), Bates TC, Corley J, McNeill G, Davies G, Liewald DC, Starr JM, 
Deary IJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, The University of Edinburgh, 7 George Square, 
Edinburgh, EH8 9JZ, UK, stuart.ritchie@ed.ac.uk.

Studies of the effect of alcohol consumption on cognitive ability are often 
confounded. One approach to avoid confounding is the Mendelian randomization 
design. Here, we used such a design to test the hypothesis that a genetic score 
for alcohol processing capacity moderates the association between alcohol 
consumption and lifetime change in cognitive ability. Members of the Lothian 
Birth Cohort 1936 completed the same test of intelligence at age 11 and 70 
years. They were assessed for recent alcohol consumption in later life and 
genotyped for a set of four single-nucleotide polymorphisms in three alcohol 
dehydrogenase genes. These variants were unrelated to late-life cognition or to 
socioeconomic status. We found a significant gene × alcohol consumption 
interaction on lifetime cognitive change (p = 0.007). Individuals with higher 
genetic ability to process alcohol showed relative improvements in cognitive 
ability with more consumption, whereas those with low processing capacity showed 
a negative relationship between cognitive change and alcohol consumption with 
more consumption. The effect of alcohol consumption on cognitive change may thus 
depend on genetic differences in the ability to metabolize alcohol.

DOI: 10.1007/s11357-014-9638-z
PMCID: PMC4082597
PMID: 24652602 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


549. Front Aging Neurosci. 2014 Mar 11;6:37. doi: 10.3389/fnagi.2014.00037. 
eCollection 2014.

Ability of university-level education to prevent age-related decline in 
emotional intelligence.

Cabello R(1), Navarro Bravo B(2), Latorre JM(3), Fernández-Berrocal P(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Developmental Psychology and Education, Faculty of Education 
Science, University of Huelva Huelva, Spain.
(2)Department of Psychology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Castilla-La 
Mancha Albacete, Spain ; Clinical Research Unit of the Integrated Healthcare 
Office of Albacete, Paraplegics National Hospital Fundation Albacete, Spain ; 
Applied Cognitive Psychology Unit, Neurological Disabilities Research Institute 
(IDINE), University of Castilla-La Mancha Albacete, Spain.
(3)Department of Psychology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Castilla-La 
Mancha Albacete, Spain ; Applied Cognitive Psychology Unit, Neurological 
Disabilities Research Institute (IDINE), University of Castilla-La Mancha 
Albacete, Spain.
(4)Department of Basic Psychology, Faculty of Psychology, University of Málaga 
Málaga, Spain.

Numerous studies have suggested that educational history, as a proxy measure of 
active cognitive reserve, protects against age-related cognitive decline and 
risk of dementia. Whether educational history also protects against age-related 
decline in emotional intelligence (EI) is unclear. The present study examined 
ability EI in 310 healthy adults ranging in age from 18 to 76 years using the 
Mayer-Salovey-Caruso Emotional Intelligence Test (MSCEIT). We found that older 
people had lower scores than younger people for total EI and for the EI branches 
of perceiving, facilitating, and understanding emotions, whereas age was not 
associated with the EI branch of managing emotions. We also found that 
educational history protects against this age-related EI decline by mediating 
the relationship between age and EI. In particular, the EI scores of older 
adults with a university education were higher than those of older adults with 
primary or secondary education, and similar to those of younger adults of any 
education level. These findings suggest that the cognitive reserve hypothesis, 
which states that individual differences in cognitive processes as a function of 
lifetime intellectual activities explain differential susceptibility to 
functional impairment in the presence of age-related changes and brain 
pathology, applies also to EI, and that education can help preserve 
cognitive-emotional structures during aging.

DOI: 10.3389/fnagi.2014.00037
PMCID: PMC3949193
PMID: 24653697


550. J Neurosurg. 2014 Jul;121(1):142-8. doi: 10.3171/2014.2.JNS131234. Epub 2014 Mar 
21.

Association of dorsal inferior frontooccipital fasciculus fibers in the deep 
parietal lobe with both reading and writing processes: a brain mapping study.

Motomura K(1), Fujii M, Maesawa S, Kuramitsu S, Natsume A, Wakabayashi T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery and.

Alexia and agraphia are disorders common to the left inferior parietal lobule, 
including the angular and supramarginal gyri. However, it is still unclear how 
these cortical regions interact with other cortical sites and what the most 
important white matter tracts are in relation to reading and writing processes. 
Here, the authors present the case of a patient who underwent an awake 
craniotomy for a left inferior parietal lobule glioma using direct cortical and 
subcortical electrostimulation. The use of subcortical stimulation allowed 
identification of the specific white matter tracts associated with reading and 
writing. These tracts were found as portions of the dorsal inferior 
frontooccipital fasciculus (IFOF) fibers in the deep parietal lobe that are 
responsible for connecting the frontal lobe to the superior parietal lobule. 
These findings are consistent with previous diffusion tensor imaging 
tractography and functional MRI studies, which suggest that the IFOF may play a 
role in the reading and writing processes. This is the first report of transient 
alexia and agraphia elicited through intraoperative direct subcortical 
electrostimulation, and the findings support the crucial role of the IFOF in 
reading and writing.

DOI: 10.3171/2014.2.JNS131234
PMID: 24655122 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


551. Brain Inj. 2014;28(7):900-5. doi: 10.3109/02699052.2014.890742. Epub 2014 Mar 
21.

Cognitive recovery after severe traumatic brain injury in children/adolescents 
and adults: similar positive outcome but different underlying pathways?

Tavano A(1), Galbiati S, Recla M, Bardoni A, Dominici C, Pastore V, Strazzer S.

Author information:
(1)Acquired Brain Injury Rehabilitation Unit, 'Eugenio Medea' Scientific 
Institute , Bosisio Parini (LC) , Italy.

PRIMARY OBJECTIVE: Does younger age at the time of severe traumatic brain injury 
(STBI) protect from cognitive symptoms? To answer this question, the authors 
compared the neuropsychological profile of late school-age children/adolescents 
and young adult patients at mid- and long-term recovery periods (6 and 12 months 
post-STBI).
METHODS AND PROCEDURES: Twenty-eight children/adolescents and 26 clinically 
matched adults were tested on measures of general intelligence, attention, 
executive functions, visuoperceptual, visuospatial and visuoconstructive 
abilities. Coma duration and the post-acute Glasgow Outcome Scale (GOS) score 
were used as predictor variables in a series of regression analyses.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND RESULTS: Children/adolescents and adults similarly improved on 
most measures, except for visuospatial and visuoconstructive skills, which 
worsened in time for children/adolescents. Coma duration significantly predicted 
performance IQ and visuoperceptual scores in children/adolescents. The GOS score 
significantly predicted performance and verbal IQ, sustained attention, 
visuoconstructive and long-term memory skills. Coma duration predicted executive 
function skills in both age groups.
CONCLUSIONS: (1) No evidence was found for a neuroprotective effect of younger 
age at STBI; and (2) Coma duration and GOS score predicted neuropsychological 
recovery in children/adolescents and adults, respectively. This suggests the 
existence of underlying age-specific recovery processes after STBI.

DOI: 10.3109/02699052.2014.890742
PMID: 24655151 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


552. J Nurs Manag. 2015 Oct;23(7):879-87. doi: 10.1111/jonm.12229. Epub 2014 Mar 21.

Nurse managers' strategies for feeling less drained by their work: an action 
research and reflection project for developing emotional intelligence.

Taylor B(1), Roberts S(2), Smyth T(2), Tulloch M(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing and Midwifery, Federation University, Ballarat, Victoria, 
Australia.
(2)Central Gippsland Health Service, Ballarat, Victoria, Australia.

AIMS: To raise nurse managers' critical awareness of practice problems; uncover 
practice constraints and improve work effectiveness.
BACKGROUND: Nurse management requires skills and knowledge, underscored by 
emotional intelligence. The research improved participants' practice and 
personal insights.
METHODS: Purposive sampling targeted nurse managers interested in improving 
their practice. Three experienced female nurse managers met fortnightly in a 
group, for 1 hour, for 10 meetings. The methods included: writing and sharing 
de-identified journal reflections; critically analysing practice stories; 
identifying a thematic concern; generating action strategies; and instituting 
and revising the action plan.
RESULTS: Phase One resulted in the identification of the issue of 'being drained 
by the intensity of nurse managers' work'. The participants adopted five 
strategies: debriefing problematic situations; deflecting multiple requests; 
diffusing issues; naming dysfunctional behaviours; and regrouping. In Phase Two, 
participants implemented and revised the action plan strategies, which resulted 
in them feeling less drained by their work.
CONCLUSIONS: Strategies can lessen nurse managers' sense of personal depletion. 
However, strategies cannot guarantee success every time because the emotional 
intelligence is integral to nurse management.
IMPLICATIONS FOR NURSING MANAGEMENT: Action research and reflection assist nurse 
managers to improve their practice and develop their emotional intelligence.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jonm.12229
PMID: 24655218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


553. Int Psychogeriatr. 2014 Jul;26(7):1201-9. doi: 10.1017/S1041610214000404. Epub 
2014 Mar 21.

Predicting anxiety in carers of people with dementia: the role of trait 
emotional intelligence.

Weaving J(1), Orgeta V(1), Orrell M(1), Petrides KV(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Psychiatry, and Research Department of Clinical, Educational, and 
Health Psychology,University College London,UK.

BACKGROUND: Trait emotional intelligence (trait EI) is a personality dimension 
related to affect that has been shown to predict psychopathology. The objective 
of the present study was to examine the predictive validity of trait EI in 
explaining anxiety symptoms in family carers of people with dementia.
METHODS: A cross-sectional survey was conducted with a convenience sample of 203 
dementia family caregivers. We used the Trait Emotional Intelligence 
Questionnaire - Short Form (TEIQue-SF) to measure trait EI in carers. The 
predictive validity of the scale in explaining anxiety was tested via regression 
analysis.
RESULTS: Bivariate correlational analysis indicated that lower levels of trait 
EI were related to higher perceived burden, higher anxiety and depression, and 
poorer self-rated health in carers. Multiple regression analyses indicated that 
trait EI was a significant predictor of anxiety symptoms after accounting for 
known factors influencing outcomes for caregivers. Trait EI also showed strong 
predictive validity in relation to psychosocial outcomes in carers.
CONCLUSIONS: Trait EI plays an important role in predicting anxiety in dementia 
caregivers. Theoretical models and interventions aimed at carers of people with 
dementia should take into account aspects of personality.

DOI: 10.1017/S1041610214000404
PMID: 24655614 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


554. Sci Total Environ. 2014 Sep 1;491-492:235-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.scitotenv.2014.02.100. Epub 2014 Mar 20.

Neurodevelopmental retardation, as assessed clinically and with 
magnetoencephalography and electroencephalography, associated with perinatal 
dioxin exposure.

Ten Tusscher GW(1), Leijs MM(2), de Boer LC(1), Legler J(3), Olie K(4), 
Spekreijse H(5), van Dijk BW(6), Vulsma T(7), Briët J(8), Ilsen A(7), Koppe 
JG(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics and Neonatology, Westfriesgasthuis, Maelsonstraat 
3, 1624 NP Hoorn, Netherlands.
(2)University Hospital Aachen, Department of Dermatology, 52074 Aachen, Germany; 
Department of Paediatrics and Neonatology, Emma Children's Hospital Academic 
Medical Center, Meibergdreef 9, 1105 AZ Amsterdam, Netherlands.
(3)Institute for Environmental Studies (IVM) VU University, De Boelelaan 1105, 
1081 HV Amsterdam, Netherlands.
(4)IBED/ESS, University of Amsterdam, Science Park 904, 1098 XH, Netherlands.
(5)Department of Medical Physics and Visual System Analysis, Academic Medical 
Center, Meibergdreef 9, 1105 AZ Amsterdam, Netherlands.
(6)Department FMT, VU Medical Center, De Boelelaan 1105, 1081 HV Amsterdam, 
Netherlands.
(7)Department of Paediatrics and Neonatology, Emma Children's Hospital Academic 
Medical Center, Meibergdreef 9, 1105 AZ Amsterdam, Netherlands.
(8)Department of Child Psychiatry, GGZ Maelsonstraat 9, 1624 NP Hoorn, 
Netherlands.
(9)Department of Paediatrics and Neonatology, Emma Children's Hospital Academic 
Medical Center, Meibergdreef 9, 1105 AZ Amsterdam, Netherlands; Ecobaby 
Foundation, Hollandstraat 6, 3634 AT Loenersloot, Netherlands.

In 1980s Western Europe, human perinatal exposure to background levels of 
dioxins was rather high. We therefore evaluated the neurodevelopment of our 
cohort during the prepubertal period and in adolescence. At prepubertal age 
(7-12 years) 41 children were tested. Both neuromotor functioning and 
psychological testing were performed (Dutch version of the Wechsler Intelligence 
Scale for Children (WISC-R) and the Dutch version of the Child Behavior 
Checklist for ages 4-18 years (CBCL 4-18) and the Teacher Report Form (TRF)). 
Neurophysiological tests were performed using magnetoencephalography and 
electroencephalography. In adolescence (14-18 years) the behavior of 33 children 
was studied again (CBCL and TRF). And the levels of dioxins and dioxin-like PCBs 
(dl-PCBs) were measured in serum.
RESULTS: At prepubertal age no association was found between perinatal dioxin 
exposure and verbal, performal and total IQ or with the Touwen's test for 
neuromotor development. There were behavioral problems associated with both 
prenatal and postnatal dioxin exposure. In adolescence there were problems 
associated with the current dioxin levels and dioxin-like-PCBs. 
Neurophysiological tests revealed clear negative dysfunction. An increase in 
latency time after a motion stimulus (N2b) of 13 ms (= a delay of 10%) is 
associated with the higher prenatal dioxin exposure. A similar delay was 
measured in testing cognitive ability by analyzing the odd ball measurements, 
N200 and P300, together with an amplitude decrease of 12 %. The delay is 
indicative of a defective myelinisation and the decrease in amplitude of a loss 
of neurons.
CONCLUSION: We found effects on behavior in association with the perinatal 
dioxin exposure and in adolescence in association with the current dioxin 
levels. Neurophysiological testing is instrumental in the detection of effects 
of perinatal background levels of chemicals on brain development in normal, 
healthy children. The clinical, neurological and psychological tests commonly 
used are not sensitive enough to detect important effects.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2014.02.100
PMID: 24656404 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


555. Eur J Paediatr Neurol. 2014 Jul;18(4):469-74. doi: 10.1016/j.ejpn.2014.03.002. 
Epub 2014 Mar 12.

Long-term outcome in children with low grade tectal tumours and obstructive 
hydrocephalus.

Aarsen FK(1), Arts WF(2), Van Veelen-Vincent ML(3), Lequin MH(4), 
Catsman-Berrevoets CE(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatric Neurology, Erasmus MC/ Sophia Children's Hospital, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands. Electronic address: f.aarsen@erasmusmc.nl.
(2)Department of Paediatric Neurology, Erasmus MC/ Sophia Children's Hospital, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Paediatric Neurosurgery, Erasmus MC/ Sophia Children's 
Hospital, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(4)Department of Paediatric Radiology, Erasmus MC/ Sophia Children's Hospital, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Neuropsychological deficits after treatment of paediatric brain 
tumour are well known, but not the role of hydrocephalus in these deficits.
AIMS: To study long-term neurological, cognitive, and behavioural deficits in 
children with a low grade tectal tumour and acquired obstructive hydrocephalus.
METHODS: In a consecutive series of 12 children with low-grade tectal tumour 
diagnosed in our hospital between 1994 and 2008, neurologic, neuropsychological, 
and radiologic data were prospectively collected. Intelligence, memory, 
attention, language, visual-spatial, and executive functions were assessed. 
Median follow-up was 2 years and 9 months.
RESULTS: At follow-up, most frequent neurologic disability was fatigue in 
children with a low-grade tectal tumour. They scored lower on sustained 
attention, long-term memory and had more behavioural problems. Factor 
influencing cognition was persisting severe hydrocephalus at time of assessment. 
The cognitive problems resulted in 60% of children needing assistances of 
special services at school.
CONCLUSIONS: At long-term, children with a low-grade tectal tumour display 
invalidating neuropsychological impairments resulting in educational problems. 
Adequate treatment of hydrocephalus may result in better cognitive functioning. 
Our findings suggest that part of the symptoms of the cerebellar cognitive 
affective syndrome may not have resulted from a cerebellar lesion itself but 
rather from a cerebral dysfunction or compression of supratentorial structures 
in the cerebello-cortical circuitry due to the obstructive hydrocephalus.

Copyright © 2014 European Paediatric Neurology Society. Published by Elsevier 
Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejpn.2014.03.002
PMID: 24657012 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


556. Comput Methods Programs Biomed. 2014 May;114(3):324-36. doi: 
10.1016/j.cmpb.2014.02.007. Epub 2014 Feb 26.

Epileptic seizure predictors based on computational intelligence techniques: a 
comparative study with 278 patients.

Alexandre Teixeira C(1), Direito B(2), Bandarabadi M(2), Le Van Quyen M(3), 
Valderrama M(3), Schelter B(4), Schulze-Bonhage A(5), Navarro V(6), Sales F(7), 
Dourado A(2).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Informatics and Systems, University of Coimbra, Portugal. 
Electronic address: cteixei@gmail.com.
(2)Centre for Informatics and Systems, University of Coimbra, Portugal.
(3)Centre de Recherche de l'Institut du Cerveau et de la Moelle épinière 
(CRICM), Paris, France.
(4)Freiburg Center for Data Analysis and Modeling, University of Freiburg, 
Freiburg, Germany.
(5)Epilepsy Center, University Hospital of Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany.
(6)Epilepsy Unit, Groupe Hospitalier Pitié-Salpêtrière, Paris, France.
(7)Centro Hospitalar e Universitário de Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal.

The ability of computational intelligence methods to predict epileptic seizures 
is evaluated in long-term EEG recordings of 278 patients suffering from 
pharmaco-resistant partial epilepsy, also known as refractory epilepsy. This 
extensive study in seizure prediction considers the 278 patients from the 
European Epilepsy Database, collected in three epilepsy centres: Hôpital 
Pitié-là-Salpêtrière, Paris, France; Universitätsklinikum Freiburg, Germany; 
Centro Hospitalar e Universitário de Coimbra, Portugal. For a considerable 
number of patients it was possible to find a patient specific predictor with an 
acceptable performance, as for example predictors that anticipate at least half 
of the seizures with a rate of false alarms of no more than 1 in 6 h (0.15 h⁻¹). 
We observed that the epileptic focus localization, data sampling frequency, 
testing duration, number of seizures in testing, type of machine learning, and 
preictal time influence significantly the prediction performance. The results 
allow to face optimistically the feasibility of a patient specific prospective 
alarming system, based on machine learning techniques by considering the 
combination of several univariate (single-channel) electroencephalogram 
features. We envisage that this work will serve as benchmark data that will be 
of valuable importance for future studies based on the European Epilepsy 
Database.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cmpb.2014.02.007
PMID: 24657096 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


557. Neurotoxicology. 2014 Dec;45:238-46. doi: 10.1016/j.neuro.2014.03.002. Epub 2014 
Mar 19.

Toward better research practice--shortcomings decreasing the significance of 
epidemiological studies in the toxicological field.

Meyer-Baron M(1), Schäper M(2), van Thriel C(2).

Author information:
(1)IfADo - Leibniz Research Centre for Working Environment and Human Factors, 
Neurotoxicology and Chemosensation (Working Group), Dortmund, Germany. 
Electronic address: meyerbaron@ifado.de.
(2)IfADo - Leibniz Research Centre for Working Environment and Human Factors, 
Neurotoxicology and Chemosensation (Working Group), Dortmund, Germany.

Neurobehavioral studies do not always gain the impact they should have, neither 
in the scientific nor in the regulatory field of neurotoxicology. Among others, 
shortcomings and inconsistencies across epidemiological studies may contribute 
to this situation. Examples were compiled to increase awareness of obstacles for 
conclusions. Meta-analyses were exploited since they sometimes allow the 
detection of deficits that are not obvious from individual studies. Exposure 
assessment, performance measures, and confounding were scrutinized among 98 
primary studies included in meta-analyses on mercury, solvents, manganese and 
pesticides. Inconsistent and hardly comparable markers of exposure were found; 
figures, units or sampling periods were not always provided. The contribution of 
test materials to differences in test outcomes across studies could sometimes 
not be evaluated due to the insufficient description of the employed tests. 
Hypotheses for the selection of performance variables often remained 
undisclosed. Matching procedures prevailed with respect to the confounder age; 
the comparability of groups with respect to intelligence and gender remained 
more elusive. 8% and 16% of the studies did not even mention confounding from 
intelligence and gender, respectively. Only one third of the studies provided 
adjusted means for group comparisons; the proportion was slightly larger for 
studies published 2000-2010. While 50% of the studies considered confounders for 
their dose-response assessment, only 29% reported results for the total of test 
variables. The outlined deficits impede, among others, the assessment of 
exposure-effect relationships and confounding across studies; thereby they limit 
the use of the studies for toxicological risk assessment and future prevention. 
Some shortcomings also impede a deeper insight into the mechanisms of toxicity: 
tests like the Digit Symbol show that something is affected, but not what is 
affected. Thorough description of measures employed is among the first 
consequences from the data. The consideration of mechanistic insights from 
research on animals and neurobiology may further help to increase the 
significance of epidemiological studies.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuro.2014.03.002
PMID: 24657405 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


558. J Neural Eng. 2014 Apr;11(2):026019. doi: 10.1088/1741-2560/11/2/026019. Epub 
2014 Mar 24.

Learning of embodied interaction dynamics with recurrent neural networks: some 
exploratory experiments.

Oubbati M(1), Kord B, Koprinkova-Hristova P, Palm G.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Neural Information Processing, Ulm University, Germany.

The new tendency of artificial intelligence suggests that intelligence must be 
seen as a result of the interaction between brains, bodies and environments. 
This view implies that designing sophisticated behaviour requires a primary 
focus on how agents are functionally coupled to their environments. Under this 
perspective, we present early results with the application of reservoir 
computing as an efficient tool to understand how behaviour emerges from 
interaction. Specifically, we present reservoir computing models, that are 
inspired by imitation learning designs, to extract the essential components of 
behaviour that results from agent-environment interaction dynamics. Experimental 
results using a mobile robot are reported to validate the learning 
architectures.

DOI: 10.1088/1741-2560/11/2/026019
PMID: 24658453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


559. Pain Physician. 2014 Mar-Apr;17(2):109-18.

Long-term neuropsychological effects of opioid use in children: a descriptive 
literature review.

Jain G(1), Mahendra V, Singhal S, Dzara K, Pilla TR, Manworren R, Kaye AD.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pain Medicine, Department of Anesthesiology, University of 
Pittsburgh Medical Center, Pittsburgh, PA; Department of Psychology, Temple 
University, Philadelphia, PA.

BACKGROUND: Use of opioids in the management of pain and its consequences in 
children presents a substantial challenge. A significant concern in pediatric 
pain management is the long-term neuropsychological consequences of opioids.
OBJECTIVES: The authors aim to provide a descriptive review of the current 
literature surrounding the neuropsychological impact of opioid use in children, 
along with possible extrapolations from their use in adults and animal models.
STUDY DESIGN: Systematic review of published literature.
SETTING: Various universities in the United States.
METHODS: The electronic review for papers published between January 1992 and 
December 2012 was conducted using Medline/Pubmed, PsychInfo, CINAHL, the 
Cochrane Library database, and Google Scholar.
RESULTS: Findings assessing pediatric pain patients treated with opioids 
demonstrated no significant differences in intelligence, behavior, vocabulary, 
or motor skills. One study reported a decrease in a visuo-constructional 
ability, which measured higher order executive function. Studies from prenatal 
illicit opioid exposure found poorer performance on measures of language, verbal 
ability, mathematics, reading, impulse control, and school readiness skills. The 
literature from adult prescribed opioid users has mixed results. Some showed 
impairment in the neuropsychological domains of memory, decision-making, 
attention, concentration, information processing, psychomotor speed, visual 
special skills, and hand-eye coordination, while others found no differences or 
revealed improved perceptual-cognitive status, possibly due to the removal of 
pain as a stressor.
LIMITATIONS: Very few studies looked into the long term neuropsychological and 
cognitive effects of the opioids in pediatric population. In an attempt to 
extrapolate from other groups, this review also included literature from adult 
patients, prenatal opioid exposure, and animal studies.
CONCLUSION: Opioid medications have the potential to produce long-lasting 
neuropsychological side effects. However, given the negative consequences of 
untreated pain, the potential benefit may offset their risk. More studies are 
needed to clarify this complex interaction.

PMID: 24658471 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


560. PLoS One. 2014 Mar 21;9(3):e92570. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0092570. 
eCollection 2014.

Emotional intelligence and mismatching expressive and verbal messages: a 
contribution to detection of deception.

Wojciechowski J(1), Stolarski M(1), Matthews G(2).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Psychology, University of Warsaw, Warsaw, Poland.
(2)Institute for Simulation & Training, University of Central Florida, Orlando, 
Florida, United States of America.

Processing facial emotion, especially mismatches between facial and verbal 
messages, is believed to be important in the detection of deception. For 
example, emotional leakage may accompany lying. Individuals with superior 
emotion perception abilities may then be more adept in detecting deception by 
identifying mismatch between facial and verbal messages. Two personal factors 
that may predict such abilities are female gender and high emotional 
intelligence (EI). However, evidence on the role of gender and EI in detection 
of deception is mixed. A key issue is that the facial processing skills required 
to detect deception may not be the same as those required to identify facial 
emotion. To test this possibility, we developed a novel facial processing task, 
the FDT (Face Decoding Test) that requires detection of inconsistencies between 
facial and verbal cues to emotion. We hypothesized that gender and ability EI 
would be related to performance when cues were inconsistent. We also 
hypothesized that gender effects would be mediated by EI, because women tend to 
score as more emotionally intelligent on ability tests. Data were collected from 
210 participants. Analyses of the FDT suggested that EI was correlated with 
superior face decoding in all conditions. We also confirmed the expected gender 
difference, the superiority of high EI individuals, and the mediation 
hypothesis. Also, EI was more strongly associated with facial decoding 
performance in women than in men, implying there may be gender differences in 
strategies for processing affective cues. It is concluded that integration of 
emotional and cognitive cues may be a core attribute of EI that contributes to 
the detection of deception.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0092570
PMCID: PMC3962410
PMID: 24658500 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


561. Sensors (Basel). 2014 Mar 20;14(3):5654-76. doi: 10.3390/s140305654.

A caregiver support platform within the scope of an ambient assisted living 
ecosystem.

Costa A(1), Novais P(2), Simoes R(3).

Author information:
(1)CCTC-Computer Science and Technology Center, University of Minho, Braga 
4710-057, Portugal. acosta@di.uminho.pt.
(2)CCTC-Computer Science and Technology Center, University of Minho, Braga 
4710-057, Portugal. pjon@di.uminho.pt.
(3)Institute for Polymers and Composites-IPC/I3N, University of Minho, Campus de 
Azurém, Guimarães 4800-058, Portugal. rsimoes@dep.uminho.pt.

The Ambient Assisted Living (AAL) area is in constant evolution, providing new 
technologies to users and enhancing the level of security and comfort that is 
ensured by house platforms. The Ambient Assisted Living for All (AAL4ALL) 
project aims to develop a new AAL concept, supported on a unified ecosystem and 
certification process that enables a heterogeneous environment. The concepts of 
Intelligent Environments, Ambient Intelligence, and the foundations of the 
Ambient Assisted Living are all presented in the framework of this project. In 
this work, we consider a specific platform developed in the scope of AAL4ALL, 
called UserAccess. The architecture of the platform and its role within the 
overall AAL4ALL concept, the implementation of the platform, and the available 
interfaces are presented. In addition, its feasibility is validated through a 
series of tests.

DOI: 10.3390/s140305654
PMCID: PMC4004013
PMID: 24658626 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


562. J Child Neurol. 2015 Apr;30(5):588-94. doi: 10.1177/0883073814528282. Epub 2014 
Mar 20.

Social communication features in children following moderate to severe acquired 
brain injury: a cross-sectional pilot study.

Breau LM(1), Clark B(1), Scott O(2), Wilkes C(2), Reynolds S(3), Ricci F(1), 
Sonnenberg L(1), Zwaigenbaum L(3), Rashid M(1), Goez HR(4).

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Brain Injury Program, Department of Pediatrics, Glenrose 
Rehabilitation Hospital, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada.
(2)University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada.
(3)Pediatric Autism Clinic, Glenrose Rehabilitation Hospital, Edmonton, Alberta, 
Canada.
(4)Pediatric Brain Injury Program, Department of Pediatrics, Glenrose 
Rehabilitation Hospital, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada 
helly.goez@albertahealthservices.ca.

We compared the social communication deficits of children with moderate to 
severe acquired brain injury or autism spectrum disorder, while accounting for 
the role of attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) symptoms. Parents of 
20 children aged 6 to 10 years (10 acquired brain injury; 10 autism spectrum 
disorder) completed the Social Communication Questionnaire, and Conners 3 Parent 
Short. A multivariate analysis of covariance revealed significant differences 
between groups in Social Communication Questionnaire restricted repetitive 
behavior scores, but not reciprocal social interaction or social communication. 
Multiple linear regressions indicated diagnosis did not predict reciprocal 
social interaction or social communication scores and that Conners 3 Parent 
Short Form hyperactivity scores were the strongest predictor of Social 
Communication Questionnaire reciprocal social interaction scores after 
accounting for age and Intelligence Quotient. The lack of difference in social 
communication deficits between groups may help in understanding the 
pathophysiology underlying the behavioral consequences of acquired brain injury. 
The link between hyperactivity and reciprocal interaction suggests that 
targeting hyperactivity may improve social outcomes in children following 
acquired brain injury.

© The Author(s) 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/0883073814528282
PMID: 24659736 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


563. Front Psychol. 2014 Mar 13;5:218. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.00218. eCollection 
2014.

Task-evoked pupillometry provides a window into the development of short-term 
memory capacity.

Johnson EL(1), Miller Singley AT(1), Peckham AD(2), Johnson SL(2), Bunge SA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of California Berkeley Berkeley, CA, USA 
; Helen Wills Neuroscience Institute, University of California Berkeley 
Berkeley, CA, USA.
(2)Department of Psychology, University of California Berkeley Berkeley, CA, 
USA.

The capacity to keep multiple items in short-term memory (STM) improves over 
childhood and provides the foundation for the development of multiple cognitive 
abilities. The goal of this study was to measure the extent to which age 
differences in STM capacity are related to differences in task engagement during 
encoding. Children (n = 69, mean age = 10.6 years) and adults (n = 54, mean age 
= 27.5 years) performed two STM tasks: the forward digit span test from the 
Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children (WISC) and a novel eyetracking digit 
span task designed to overload STM capacity. Building on prior research showing 
that task-evoked pupil dilation can be used as a real-time index of task 
engagement, we measured changes in pupil dilation while participants encoded 
long sequences of digits for subsequent recall. As expected, adults outperformed 
children on both STM tasks. We found similar patterns of pupil dilation while 
children and adults listened to the first six digits on our STM overload task, 
after which the adults' pupils continued to dilate and the children's began to 
constrict, suggesting that the children had reached their cognitive limits and 
that they had begun to disengage from the task. Indeed, the point at which pupil 
dilation peaked at encoding was a significant predictor of WISC forward span, 
and this relationship held even after partialing out recall performance on the 
STM overload task. These findings indicate that sustained task engagement at 
encoding is an important component of the development of STM.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.00218
PMCID: PMC3952077
PMID: 24659980


564. J Pers Soc Psychol. 2014 Apr;106(4):638-54. doi: 10.1037/a0035815.

Linear and nonlinear associations between general intelligence and personality 
in Project TALENT.

Major JT(1), Johnson W(1), Deary IJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology.

Research on the relations of personality traits to intelligence has primarily 
been concerned with linear associations. Yet, there are no a priori reasons why 
linear relations should be expected over nonlinear ones, which represent a much 
larger set of all possible associations. Using 2 techniques, quadratic and 
generalized additive models, we tested for linear and nonlinear associations of 
general intelligence (g) with 10 personality scales from Project TALENT (PT), a 
nationally representative sample of approximately 400,000 American high school 
students from 1960, divided into 4 grade samples (Flanagan et al., 1962). We 
departed from previous studies, including one with PT (Reeve, Meyer, & Bonaccio, 
2006), by modeling latent quadratic effects directly, controlling the influence 
of the common factor in the personality scales, and assuming a direction of 
effect from g to personality. On the basis of the literature, we made 17 
directional hypotheses for the linear and quadratic associations. Of these, 53% 
were supported in all 4 male grades and 58% in all 4 female grades. Quadratic 
associations explained substantive variance above and beyond linear effects 
(mean R² between 1.8% and 3.6%) for Sociability, Maturity, Vigor, and Leadership 
in males and Sociability, Maturity, and Tidiness in females; linear associations 
were predominant for other traits. We discuss how suited current theories of the 
personality-intelligence interface are to explain these associations, and how 
research on intellectually gifted samples may provide a unique way of 
understanding them. We conclude that nonlinear models can provide incremental 
detail regarding personality and intelligence associations.

(PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/a0035815
PMID: 24660993 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


565. BMC Cancer. 2014 Mar 24;14:219. doi: 10.1186/1471-2407-14-219.

Impairment of cognitive functioning during Sunitinib or Sorafenib treatment in 
cancer patients: a cross sectional study.

Mulder SF(1), Bertens D, Desar IM, Vissers KC, Mulders PF, Punt CJ, van Spronsen 
DJ, Langenhuijsen JF, Kessels RP, van Herpen CM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Radboud University Medical Centre, PO Box 
9101, 6500 HB Nijmegen, The Netherlands. Sasja.Mulder@radboudumc.nl.

BACKGROUND: Impairment of cognitive functioning has been reported in several 
studies in patients treated with chemotherapy. So far, no studies have been 
published on the effects of the vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 
(VEGFR) inhibitors on cognitive functioning. We investigated the objective and 
subjective cognitive function of patients during treatment with VEGFR tyrosine 
kinase inhibitors (VEGFR TKI).
METHODS: Three groups of participants, matched on age, sex and education, were 
enrolled; 1. metastatic renal cell cancer (mRCC) or GIST patients treated with 
sunitinib or sorafenib (VEGFR TKI patients n = 30); 2. patients with mRCC not 
receiving systemic treatment (patient controls n = 20); 3. healthy controls (n = 
30). Sixteen neuropsychological tests examining the main cognitive domains 
(intelligence, memory, attention and concentration, executive functions and 
abstract reasoning) were administered by a neuropsychologist. Four 
questionnaires were used to assess subjective cognitive complaints, mood, 
fatigue and psychological wellbeing.
RESULTS: No significant differences in mean age, sex distribution, education 
level or IQ were found between the three groups. Both patient groups performed 
significantly worse on the cognitive domains Learning & Memory and Executive 
Functions (Response Generation and Problem Solving) compared to healthy 
controls. However only the VEGFR TKI patients showed impairments on the 
Executive subdomain Response Generation. Effect sizes of cognitive dysfunction 
in patients using VEGFR TKI were larger on the domains Learning & Memory and 
Executive Functions, compared to patient controls. Both patients groups 
performed on the domain Attention & Concentration the same as the healthy 
controls. Longer duration of treatment on VEGFR TKI was associated with a worse 
score on Working Memory tasks.
CONCLUSIONS: Our data suggest that treatment with VEGFR TKI has a negative 
impact on cognitive functioning, specifically on Learning & Memory, and 
Executive Functioning. We propose that patients who are treated with VEGFR TKI 
are monitored and informed for possible signs or symptoms associated with 
cognitive impairment.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT01246843.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2407-14-219
PMCID: PMC3987809
PMID: 24661373 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


566. Sensors (Basel). 2014 Mar 6;14(3):4513-35. doi: 10.3390/s140304513.

Towards a holistic framework for the evaluation of emergency plans in indoor 
environments.

Serrano E(1), Poveda G(2), Garijo M(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Telematic Systems Engineering, Polytechnic University of 
Madrid, Madrid 28040, Spain. eserrano@gsi.dit.upm.es.
(2)Department of Telematic Systems Engineering, Polytechnic University of 
Madrid, Madrid 28040, Spain. gpoveda@gsi.dit.upm.es.
(3)Department of Telematic Systems Engineering, Polytechnic University of 
Madrid, Madrid 28040, Spain. mga@gsi.dit.upm.es.

One of the most promising fields for ambient intelligence is the implementation 
of intelligent emergency plans. Because the use of drills and living labs cannot 
reproduce social behaviors, such as panic attacks, that strongly affect these 
plans, the use of agent-based social simulation provides an approach to evaluate 
these plans more thoroughly. (1) The hypothesis presented in this paper is that 
there has been little interest in describing the key modules that these 
simulators must include, such as formally represented knowledge and a realistic 
simulated sensor model, and especially in providing researchers with tools to 
reuse, extend and interconnect modules from different works. This lack of 
interest hinders researchers from achieving a holistic framework for evaluating 
emergency plans and forces them to reconsider and to implement the same 
components from scratch over and over. In addition to supporting this hypothesis 
by considering over 150 simulators, this paper: (2) defines the main modules 
identified and proposes the use of semantic web technologies as a cornerstone 
for the aforementioned holistic framework; (3) provides a basic methodology to 
achieve the framework; (4) identifies the main challenges; and (5) presents an 
open and free software tool to hint at the potential of such a holistic view of 
emergency plan evaluation in indoor environments.

DOI: 10.3390/s140304513
PMCID: PMC4003955
PMID: 24662453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


567. J Dev Behav Pediatr. 2014 Apr;35(3):197-206. doi: 10.1097/DBP.0000000000000048.

Functional communication of children who are deaf or hard-of-hearing.

Meinzen-Derr J(1), Wiley S, Grether S, Phillips J, Choo D, Hibner J, Barnard H.

Author information:
(1)*Division of Biostatistics and Epidemiology, †Division of Otolaryngology, 
‡Division of Developmental and Behavioral Pediatrics, Cincinnati Children's 
Hospital Medical Center, University of Cincinnati College of Medicine, 
Cincinnati, OH.

OBJECTIVE: The primary aim of this study was to investigate the relationship 
between language levels and communication and social function skills in young 
children who are deaf/hard-of-hearing.
METHOD: A cross-sectional design was used with participants sampled 
predominately from a single clinic setting. Children between 3 and 6 years of 
age with permanent bilateral hearing loss were enrolled in the study. All 
children received the Preschool Language Scales-Fifth Edition language 
assessment and a neurocognitive assessment using the Leiter International 
Performance Scale-Revised at the study visit. Communication and social function 
skills were measured using the Vineland Adaptive Behavior Scales-Second Edition 
(VABS-II; mean 100 ± 15) and the Pediatric Evaluation of Disability Inventory 
(PEDI; mean 50 ± 10).
RESULTS: Analysis included 65 children with mild to profound bilateral hearing 
loss (mean age 56.8 months, SD ± 14.1); 52% had hearing loss in the mild to 
moderate range. The mean nonverbal intelligence quotient (IQ) was 95.7 (±18.8), 
the mean receptive language standard score was 83.7 (±18.6), and mean expressive 
language standard score was 83.0 (±18.5). The mean VABS-II communication 
standard score was 89.1 (±17.5), and the mean PEDI social function score was 
39.6 (±15.3). Both nonverbal IQ and receptive language relative to nonverbal IQ 
(the ratio of language to IQ) were significantly associated with communication 
and social functioning, explaining more than 50% of the variance in 
communication function scores. Children with language commensurate with their IQ 
had significantly higher communication and social function scores than children 
with language significantly lower than IQ. This finding was consistent across 
different levels of IQ and independent of degree of hearing loss.
CONCLUSION: Even with early identification and intervention, hearing loss 
continues to have a life-long impact on functioning. It is important to identify 
when language levels are not meeting a child's capabilities in order to 
intervene most effectively.

DOI: 10.1097/DBP.0000000000000048
PMID: 24662616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


568. Neurobiol Learn Mem. 2014 May;111:71-80. doi: 10.1016/j.nlm.2014.03.007. Epub 
2014 Mar 22.

Remote effects of hypothalamic lesions in the prefrontal cortex of 
craniopharygioma patients.

Ozyurt J(1), Lorenzen A(2), Gebhardt U(3), Warmuth-Metz M(4), Müller HL(3), 
Thiel CM(5).

Author information:
(1)Biological Psychology Lab, Department of Psychology, European Medical School, 
Carl von Ossietzky Universität, 26111 Oldenburg, Germany. Electronic address: 
jale.oezyurt@uni-oldenburg.de.
(2)Biological Psychology Lab, Department of Psychology, European Medical School, 
Carl von Ossietzky Universität, 26111 Oldenburg, Germany.
(3)Department of Pediatrics and Pediatric Hematology and Oncology, Zentrum für 
Kinder- und Jugendmedizin, Klinikum Oldenburg gGmbH, 26131 Oldenburg, Germany.
(4)Department of Neuroradiology, University Hospital Würzburg, 97080 Würzburg, 
Germany.
(5)Biological Psychology Lab, Department of Psychology, European Medical School, 
Carl von Ossietzky Universität, 26111 Oldenburg, Germany; Research Center 
Neurosensory Science, Carl von Ossietzky Universität, 26111 Oldenburg, Germany.

Albeit histologically low grade (WHO I(o)) brain tumors, craniopharyngiomas 
and/or their surgical removal frequently affect the hypothalamus, amongst other 
brain regions at risk. Due to rich hypothalamic connections with prefrontal and 
limbic regions, hypothalamic injury may adversely affect neural substrates of 
emotion processing and higher cognitive control, including memory and executive 
functions. The current study is the first to investigate the consequences of 
hypothalamic involvement on neural substrates of emotional and cognitive 
functioning. Ten patients with childhood craniopharyngioma and known 
hypothalamic involvement and fifteen age- and intelligence matched control 
subjects (median age: 17.8 and 17.3 yrs.) were studied with functional magnetic 
resonance imaging and an emotional face recognition task. During encoding, 
participants were asked to classify neutral and emotional faces. In a subsequent 
recognition phase, participants had to recognize these old faces within a set of 
new faces. Behavioral performance was comparable between patients and controls. 
Neural activity revealed, however, differential recruitment of fronto-limbic 
brain regions during recognition. Patients exhibited an abnormal pattern of 
task-induced activation and deactivation in the anterior and posterior rostral 
medial prefrontal cortex and a higher functional coupling between anterior 
rostral medial prefrontal cortex and the thalamus. Additionally, we found a 
higher reactivity in the patients' amygdala to emotional relative to neutral 
faces when compared to healthy controls. Our data provide first evidence that 
hypothalamic damage impacts neural correlates of memory retrieval in medial 
prefrontal cortex, indicating a less efficient use of an area involved in 
executive control processes. We propose that the deactivation failure in the 
patients' anterior rostral medial prefrontal cortex is related to an increased 
coupling with the thalamus and reflects a reduced efficiency to flexibly adapt 
to task demands.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nlm.2014.03.007
PMID: 24662774 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


569. PLoS One. 2014 Mar 24;9(3):e92953. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0092953. 
eCollection 2014.

The effect of acute exercise and psychosocial stress on fine motor skills and 
testosterone concentration in the saliva of high school students.

Wegner M(1), Koedijker JM(1), Budde H(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Sport Science, University of Bern, Bern, Switzerland.
(2)Faculty of Human Sciences, Medical School Hamburg, Hamburg, Germany; 
Department of Sport Science, School of Science and Engineering, Reykjavik 
University, Reykjavik, Iceland.

Little is known about the influence of different stressors on fine motor skills, 
the concentration of testosterone (T), and their interaction in adolescents. 
Therefore, 62 high school students aged 14-15 years were randomly assigned to 
two experimental groups (exercise, psychosocial stress) and a control group. 
Exercise stress was induced at 65-75% of the maximum heart rate by running for 
15 minutes (n = 24). Psychosocial stress was generated by an intelligence test 
(HAWIK-IV), which was uncontrollable and characterized by 
social-evaluative-threat to the students (n = 21). The control group followed 
was part of a regular school lesson with the same duration (n = 28). Saliva was 
collected after a normal school lesson (pre-test) as well as after the 
intervention/control period (post-test) and was analyzed for testosterone. Fine 
motor skills were assessed pre- and post-intervention using a manual dexterity 
test (Flower Trail) from the Movement Assessment Battery for Children-2. A 
repeated measure ANCOVA including gender as a covariate revealed a significant 
group by test interaction, indicating an increase in manual dexterity only for 
the psychosocial stress group. Correlation analysis of all students shows that 
the change of testosterone from pre- to post-test was directly linked (r = -.31, 
p = .01) to the changes in manual dexterity performance. Participants showing 
high increases in testosterone from pre- to post-test made fewer mistakes in the 
fine motor skills task. Findings suggest that manual dexterity increases when 
psychosocial stress is induced and that improvement of manual dexterity 
performance corresponds with the increase of testosterone.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0092953
PMCID: PMC3963958
PMID: 24664108 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


570. Pediatr Nephrol. 2014 Sep;29(9):1607-15. doi: 10.1007/s00467-014-2803-x. Epub 
2014 Mar 25.

Neurological involvement in children with E. coli O104:H4-induced hemolytic 
uremic syndrome.

Bauer A(1), Loos S, Wehrmann C, Horstmann D, Donnerstag F, Lemke J, Hillebrand 
G, Löbel U, Pape L, Haffner D, Bindt C, Ahlenstiel T, Melk A, Lehnhardt A, 
Kemper MJ, Oh J, Hartmann H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University Medical Center Hamburg, Hamburg, 
Germany.

BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to analyze the neurological involvement 
and outcome in pediatric patients with hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS) during 
the 2011 epidemic caused by Escherichia coli O104:H4.
METHODS: Clinical data and data from magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans and 
electroencephalography (EEG) during the acute phase of the disease and during 
follow-up at 3 and 6 months were analyzed in 50 patients. Twenty-five of these 
patients underwent neuropsychological testing (WISC IV) during follow-up.
RESULTS: Neurological involvement (stupor or coma, seizures, visual 
disturbances, paresis, myocloni) was initially observed in 14/50 (28%) patients. 
One patient died. EEG abnormalities were more frequent in patients with 
neurological involvement than in those without (12/14 vs. 13/25, respectively). 
Cranial MRI scans were analyzed in nine patients with neurological involvement, 
of whom five showed abnormal findings. At the 3- and 6-month follow-ups, EEG 
abnormalities were found in 14/40 (35%) and 7/36 (19%) patients, respectively, 
whereas 28/42 (67%) and 17/39 (44%) patients, respectively, complained about 
on-going reduced performance. Neuropsychological testing showed a slightly lower 
global intelligence quotient in patients with neurological involvement versus 
those without (113.4 ± 2.8 vs. 119.4 ± 1.8, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: Neurological involvement was frequent in our cohort. Accordingly, 
the incidence of pathological EEG findings was high, even in patients without 
clinical signs of neurological involvement. Nevertheless, major neurological 
sequelae were rare, and neuropsychological outcome was favorable after 6 months.

DOI: 10.1007/s00467-014-2803-x
PMID: 24664191 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


571. Support Care Cancer. 2014 Aug;22(8):2219-22. doi: 10.1007/s00520-014-2214-3. 
Epub 2014 Mar 25.

Inappropriate referrals at the end of life--the existing Indian scenario.

Butola S(1).

Author information:
(1)Composite Hospital, Border Security Force, GT Road, Jalandhar Cantt, Punjab, 
India, savitabutola@yahoo.com.

The Economist Intelligence Unit has ranked India's end-of-life care last out of 
40 countries. The lack of orientation towards palliative care, poor 
communication skills, a disease-focused, curative approach and the unending 
battle against death-all lead to unrealistic hope in patients and their 
families. Inappropriate referrals at the end of life are common and result in a 
lot of avoidable suffering for both the patients and their families. Propagation 
of clear guidelines to limit inappropriate therapeutic interventions and 
referrals in patients with limited prognosis is the need of the hour. Awareness, 
sensitization, education and training in palliative care are urgently required 
to change attitudes. This would go a long way in mitigating the misery for both 
the dying and their carers.

DOI: 10.1007/s00520-014-2214-3
PMID: 24664357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


572. South Asian J Cancer. 2014 Jan;3(1):60-5. doi: 10.4103/2278-330X.126529.

Late effects of treatment in survivors of childhood cancer from a tertiary 
cancer center in South India.

Rajendranath R(1), Veeraiah S(2), Ramesh A(3), Sagar TG(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Cancer Institute Adyar, Chennai, Tamil Nadu, 
India.
(2)Department of Psycho Oncology, Cancer Institute Adyar, Chennai, Tamil Nadu, 
India.
(3)Department of Medicine, Sri Ram Chandra Medical College, Chennai, Tamil Nadu, 
India.

BACKGROUND: Improved survival after childhood cancer is attributed to intensive, 
aggressive therapy, adverse sequelae of which can manifest months to years after 
completion of treatment. There is little information about the late adverse 
effects of both childhood cancer and its therapy in survivors in India.
AIM: To determine the long-term sequelae associated with therapy in childhood 
cancer survivors attending a tertiary cancer center in India.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We studied 155 consecutive survivors of childhood cancer 
who were ≤14 years at the time of diagnosis and had completed 3 years of 
follow-up. The study included a complete history and clinical examination, with 
specific investigations to detect organ toxicity. Quality of life (QOL) was 
assessed from responses to a standardized questionnaire. Neurocognitive 
assessment was carried out in 20 survivors with an adaptation of the revised 
Wechsler adult intelligence scale for adults and the Malins intelligence scale 
for children.
RESULTS: The late effects included impaired fertility in 38 patients (24.5%), 
impaired growth pattern in 7 (4.5%), endocrine dysfunction in 7 (4.5%) and 
second malignancy in 2 (1.2%). Three of the 20 patients assessed had severe 
neurocognitive impairment. A high QOL was reported by 60% of survivors and an 
"average" QOL by 38%.
CONCLUSION: Our study showed that most survivors had a good QOL and our results 
will help clinicians to better monitor childhood cancer survivors in countries 
with limited resources.

DOI: 10.4103/2278-330X.126529
PMCID: PMC3961872
PMID: 24665450

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None declared.


573. Can J Surg. 2014 Apr;57(2):89-93. doi: 10.1503/cjs.022512.

Emotional intelligence in orthopedic surgery residents.

Chan K(1), Petrisor B(1), Bhandari M(1).

Author information:
(1)The Division of Orthopaedic Surgery, Department of Surgery, McMaster 
University, Hamilton, Ont.

BACKGROUND: Emotional intelligence (EI) is the ability to understand and manage 
emotions in oneself and others. It was originally popularized in the business 
literature as a key attribute for success that was distinct from cognitive 
intelligence. Increasing focus is being placed on EI in medicine to improve 
clinical and academic performance. Despite the proposed benefits, to our 
knowledge, there have been no previous studies on the role of EI in orthopedic 
surgery. We evaluated baseline data on EI in a cohort of orthopedic surgery 
residents.
METHODS: We asked all orthopedic surgery residents at a single institution to 
complete an electronic version of the Mayer-Salovey-Caruso Emotional 
Intelligence Test (MSCEIT). We used completed questionnaires to calculate total 
EI scores and 4 branch scores. Data were analyzed according to a priori cutoff 
values to determine the proportion of residents who were considered competent on 
the test. Data were also analyzed for possible associations with age, sex, race 
and level of training.
RESULTS: Thirty-nine residents (100%) completed the MSCEIT. The mean total EI 
score was 86 (maximum score 145). Only 4 (10%) respondents demonstrated 
competence in EI. Junior residents (p = 0.026), Caucasian residents (p = 0.009) 
and those younger than 30 years (p = 0.008) had significantly higher EI scores.
CONCLUSION: Our findings suggest that orthopedic residents score low on EI based 
on the MSCEIT. Optimizing resident competency in noncognitive skills may be 
enhanced by dedicated EI education, training and testing.

Publisher: CONTEXTE: L’intelligence émotionnelle (IÉ) est la capacité de 
comprendre et de gérer les émotions qui se manifestent en soi-même et chez les 
autres. À l’origine, le concept d’IÉ a été popularisé dans le monde des affaires 
en tant qu’attribut clé de la réussite, distinct de l’intelligence cognitive. On 
s’intéresse de plus en plus à l’IÉ pour améliorer l’acquisition des compétences 
cliniques et théoriques. Or, malgré les avantages évoqués, à notre connaissance, 
aucune étude n’a encore porté sur le rôle de l’IÉ en chirurgie orthopédique. 
Nous avons évalué les données de base concernant l’IÉ d’une cohorte de résidents 
en chirurgie orthopédique.
MÉTHODES: Nous avons demandé à tous les résidents en chirurgie orthopédique d’un 
seul établissement de répondre à un questionnaire par voie électronique, soit le 
test d’intelligence émotionnelle de Mayer–Salovey–Caruso (MSCEIT). Nous avons 
utilisé les questionnaires dûment remplis pour calculer les scores d’IÉ totaux 
et 4 scores secondaires. Les données ont été analysées en fonction de 
valeurs-seuils préalablement établies afin de déterminer la proportion de 
résidents jugés compétents à l’aune de ce test. Les données ont aussi été 
analysées en fonction de liens possibles avec l’âge, le sexe, la race et le 
niveau de formation.
RÉSULTATS: Trente-neuf résidents (100 %) ont répondu au test MSCEIT. Le score 
d’IÉ total moyen a été de 86 (score maximum 145). Seuls 4 répondants (10 %) ont 
démontré une compétence en matière d’IÉ. Les résidents juniors (p = 0,026), de 
race blanche (p = 0,009) et de moins de 30 ans (p = 0,008) ont présenté des 
scores d’IÉ significativement plus élevés.
CONCLUSION: Selon nos conclusions, les résidents en orthopédie obtiennent des 
scores faibles pour ce qui est de l’IÉ selon le test MSCEIT. Il serait possible 
d’améliorer les compétences non cognitives des résidents au moyen de cours, de 
stages et de tests d’IÉ.

DOI: 10.1503/cjs.022512
PMCID: PMC3968198
PMID: 24666445 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


574. AIDS. 2014 Jan 28;28(3):355-64. doi: 10.1097/QAD.0000000000000072.

Biomarkers and neurodevelopment in perinatally HIV-infected or exposed youth: a 
structural equation model analysis.

Kapetanovic S(1), Griner R, Zeldow B, Nichols S, Leister E, Gelbard HA, Miller 
TL, Hazra R, Mendez AJ, Malee K, Kammerer B, Williams PL; Pediatric HIV/AIDS 
Cohort Study Team.

Author information:
(1)aNational Institute of Mental Health, National Institutes of Health, 
Bethesda, Maryland bDepartment of Biostatistics, Harvard School of Public 
Health, Boston, Massachusetts cDepartment of Neurosciences, University of 
California San Diego, San Diego, California dCenter for Neural Development and 
Disease, University of Rochester Medical Center, Rochester, New York eUniversity 
of Miami Miller School of Medicine, Miami, Florida fEunice Kennedy Shriver 
National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, National Institutes of 
Health, Bethesda, Maryland gDivision of Endocrinology, Diabetes and Metabolism, 
Department of Medicine, University of Miami Miller School of Medicine, Miami, 
Florida hFeinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern University, Chicago, Illinois 
iDepartment of Psychiatry, Boston Children's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, 
USA.

OBJECTIVE: To examine the relationship between markers of vascular dysfunction 
and neurodevelopmental outcomes in perinatally HIV-infected (PHIV+) and 
perinatally HIV-exposed but uninfected (PHEU) youth.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional design within a prospective, 15-site US-based cohort 
study.
METHODS: Neurodevelopmental outcomes were evaluated in relation to nine selected 
vascular biomarkers in 342 youth (212 PHIV+, 130 PHEU). Serum levels were 
assessed for adiponectin, C-reactive protein (CRP), fibrinogen, interleukin-6 
(IL-6), soluble vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (sVCAM-1), E-selectin 
(sE-selectin), monocyte chemoattractant protein (sMCP-1), intercellular adhesion 
molecule-1 (sICAM-1), and P-selectin (sP-selectin). The Wechsler Intelligence 
Scale for Children-Fourth Edition (WISC-IV) was administered at entry, yielding 
a Full-Scale IQ score, and four index scores. Factor analysis was conducted to 
reduce the biomarkers to fewer factors with related biological roles. Structural 
equation models (SEMs) were used to measure associations between resulting 
factors and WISC-IV scores.
RESULTS: Mean participant age was 11.4 years, 54% were female, 70% black. The 
nine biomarkers were clustered into three factor groups: F1 (fibrinogen, CRP, 
and IL-6); F2 (sICAM-1 and sVCAM-1); and F3 (MCP-1, sP-selectin, and 
sE-selectin). Adiponectin showed little correlation with any factor. SEMs 
revealed significant negative association of F1 with WISC-IV processing speed 
score in the total cohort. This effect remained significant after adjusting for 
HIV status and other potential confounders. A similar association was observed 
when restricted to PHIV+ participants in both unadjusted and adjusted SEMs.
CONCLUSION: Aggregate measures of fibrinogen, CRP, and IL-6 may serve as a 
latent biomarker associated with relatively decreased processing speed in both 
PHIV+ and PHEU youth.

DOI: 10.1097/QAD.0000000000000072
PMCID: PMC4191846
PMID: 24670521 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


575. Front Psychol. 2014 Mar 17;5:223. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.00223. eCollection 
2014.

Consciousness: a neural capacity for objectivity, especially pronounced in 
humans.

Dijker AJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Health, Medicine and Life Sciences, Maastricht University 
Maastricht, Netherlands.

Consciousness tends to be viewed either as subjective experience of sensations 
and feelings, or as perception and internal representation of objects. This 
paper argues that neither view sufficiently acknowledges that consciousness may 
refer to the brain's most adaptive property: its capacity to produce states of 
objectivity. It is proposed that this capacity relies on multiple sensorimotor 
networks for internally representing objects and their properties in terms of 
expectancies, as well as on motivational and motor mechanisms involved in 
exploration, play, and care for vulnerable living and non-living objects. States 
of objectivity are associated with a very special phenomenal aspect; the 
experience that subjective aspects are absent and one is "just looking" at the 
world as it really is and can be. However, these states are normally closely 
preceded and followed by (and tend to be combined or fused with) sensations and 
feelings which are caused by activation of sensory and motivational mechanisms. 
A capacity for objectivity may have evolved in different species and can be 
conceived as a common basis for other elusive psychological properties such as 
intelligence, conscience, and esthetic experience; all three linked to crucial 
behaviors in human evolution such as tool making, cooperation, and art. The 
brain's pervasive tendency to objectify may be responsible for wrongly equating 
consciousness with feelings and wrongly opposing it to well-learned or habitual 
("unconscious") patterns of perception and behavior.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.00223
PMCID: PMC3955983
PMID: 24672506


576. J Child Psychol Psychiatry. 2014 Oct;55(10):1117-24. doi: 10.1111/jcpp.12230. 
Epub 2014 Mar 27.

Inhibitory control and delay aversion in unaffected preschoolers with a positive 
family history of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder.

Pauli-Pott U(1), Roller A, Heinzel-Gutenbrunner M, Mingebach T, Dalir S, Becker 
K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Psychosomatics and 
Psychotherapy, Philipps-University of Marburg, Marburg, Germany.

BACKGROUND: From current theories on the etiology of attention deficit 
hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), it can be inferred that delay aversion (DA) and 
deficits in inhibitory control (IC) constitute basic deficits or endophenotypes 
of the disorder that already occur in the preschool period. This implies an 
occurrence of the characteristics in unaffected preschoolers with a positive 
family history of ADHD. Thus, it is hypothesized that preschoolers who are not 
affected by ADHD but who have first-degree relatives who suffer, or have 
suffered, from ADHD show deficits in IC and heightened DA in comparison to 
preschoolers from the general population.
METHODS: Thirty unaffected preschoolers with a positive family history of ADHD 
were compared with 30 control children matched with respect to age in months, 
gender, intelligence, and maternal education level. The groups also did not 
differ in terms of maternal depressive symptoms and the number of psychosocial 
family risks. A set of age-appropriate neuropsychological tasks on executive IC 
(e.g. Puppet Says, Day-Night, relying on Go-NoGo and interference paradigms) and 
DA (e.g. Snack Delay, Gift Wrap, relying on delay of gratification paradigm) was 
conducted.
RESULTS: Unaffected preschoolers showed significantly higher DA than control 
children (t(29) = -2.57, p < .008). The result did not change when subclinical 
ADHD symptoms and symptoms of oppositional defiant disorder were controlled for 
(F(1,29) = 5.21, p < .031). Differences in IC did not reach statistical 
significance.
CONCLUSION: The results are compatible with the assumption that DA constitutes a 
familial vulnerability marker that can be validly assessed in the preschool 
period. As this is the first study to address this issue in preschoolers, more 
research is needed to confirm and further analyze the significance of DA 
assessments specifically at this developmental stage.

© 2014 The Authors. Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry. © 2014 
Association for Child and Adolescent Mental Health.

DOI: 10.1111/jcpp.12230
PMID: 24673598 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


577. J Ethnopharmacol. 2014 May 14;153(3):725-31. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2014.03.038. 
Epub 2014 Mar 24.

Effect of nigranoic acid on Ca²⁺ influx and its downstream signal mechanism in 
NGF-differentiated PC12 cells.

Yuan XX(1), Yang LP(2), Yang ZL(1), Xiao WL(3), Sun HD(4), Wu GS(4), Luo HR(5).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Phytochemistry and Plant Resources in West China, 
Kunming Institute of Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Kunming 650201, 
Yunnan, China; University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100039, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Phytochemistry and Plant Resources in West China, 
Kunming Institute of Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Kunming 650201, 
Yunnan, China; University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100039, China; 
Yunnan Institute of Traditional Chinese Medicine and Materia Medica, Kunming 
650223, Yunnan, China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Phytochemistry and Plant Resources in West China, 
Kunming Institute of Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Kunming 650201, 
Yunnan, China. Electronic address: xwl@mail.kib.ac.cn.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Phytochemistry and Plant Resources in West China, 
Kunming Institute of Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Kunming 650201, 
Yunnan, China.
(5)State Key Laboratory of Phytochemistry and Plant Resources in West China, 
Kunming Institute of Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Kunming 650201, 
Yunnan, China. Electronic address: luohuairong@mail.kib.ac.cn.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Schisandra chinensis has a long history of use 
as a famous traditional Chinese medicine. The plants of genus Schisandra, 
especially Schisandra neglecta, Schisandra rubriflora, and Schisandra 
sphaerandra are used in the same way as Schisandra chinensis in the folk 
medicine to treat insomnia, fatigue, increasing intelligence, and tranquilizing. 
Many studies showed that lignans were the major active components of Schisandra 
genus, whereas the bioactivity of abundant triterpenoids in Schisandra genus, 
such as nigranoic acid (SBB1, 3,4-secocycloartene triterpenoid), has not been 
examined yet in neuropathology.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: After treating with SBB1, intracellular Ca(2+) 
concentration was analyzed by Ca(2+) fluorescent indicator (Fluo-4 AM) in 
NGF-differentiated PC12 cells. Intracellular nitric oxide (NO) level was 
analyzed using NO fluorescent indicator (DAF-FM). The expression of 
extracellular signal regulated kinase 1 and 2 (ERK1/2) was analyzed by western 
blotting, and the temporal mRNA for BDNF and c-fos was analyzed using reverse 
transcription quantitative PCR.
RESULT: We found that SBB1 induced Ca(2+) influx in a time- and 
concentration-dependent manner, which was significantly attenuated in Ca(2+) 
free media. SBB1 promoted the intracellular NO production which depended on 
increasing cytoplasmic Ca(2+) level. Moreover, SBB1 stimulated activation of 
ERK1/2 through Ca(2+)-CaMKII pathway. In addition, we found that SBB1 increased 
the expression of BDNF and c-fos mRNA.
CONCLUSION: These results suggest that SBB1 is able to promote NO production and 
stimulate phosphorylation of ERK1/2 through Ca(2+) influx, further impact 
expression of BDNF and c-fos, which provides evidence for the effects of SBB1 
that may be benefit to enhance mental and intellectual functions.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2014.03.038
PMID: 24674947 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


578. Cogn Behav Neurol. 2014 Mar;27(1):8-16. doi: 10.1097/WNN.0000000000000021.

Memory and executive functions in patients with obsessive-compulsive disorder.

Vandborg SK(1), Hartmann TB, Bennedsen BE, Pedersen AD, Thomsen PH.

Author information:
(1)*Clinic for OCD and Anxiety Disorders †Center for Psychiatric Research 
§Regional Center for Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Aarhus University Hospital 
Risskov, Risskov, Denmark ‡Vejlefjord Rehabilitation, Stouby, Denmark.

OBJECTIVE: We investigated whether patients with obsessive-compulsive disorder 
have poorer memory and executive functions than healthy controls.
BACKGROUND: The relatively inconsistent previous findings on this question 
reflect a lack of well-matched control groups, the inclusion of patients with 
comorbidity, and the use of noncomparable neuropsychological tests to assess 
memory and executive functions.
METHODS: We used well-accepted neuropsychological tests of memory and executive 
functions to assess 42 patients who had obsessive-compulsive disorder without 
comorbidity, and 42 healthy controls. We matched the patients and controls 
pairwise by sex, age, and years of education.
RESULTS: The patients performed significantly worse than the controls on the Rey 
Complex Figure Test, which assesses visuospatial memory and organizational 
skills. This group difference remained after we controlled for age, education, 
intelligence, and severity of depressive symptoms.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings indicate that patients with obsessive-compulsive 
disorder may have impaired visuospatial memory and organizational skills, and 
these impairments should be considered in treatment.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00792038.

DOI: 10.1097/WNN.0000000000000021
PMID: 24674961 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


579. Cogn Behav Neurol. 2014 Mar;27(1):51-6. doi: 10.1097/WNN.0000000000000016.

Neurocognitive impairment in Whipple disease with central nervous system 
involvement.

Christidi F(1), Kararizou E, Potagas C, Triantafyllou NI, Stamboulis E, Zalonis 
I.

Author information:
(1)*Neuropsychological Laboratory, First Department of Neurology †First 
Department of Neurology, Eginition Hospital, Medical School, National & 
Kapodistrian University, Athens, Greece.

Young-onset dementias pose a major challenge to both clinicians and researchers. 
Cognitive decline may be accompanied by systemic features, leading to a 
diagnosis of "dementia plus" syndromes. Whipple disease is a rare systemic 
illness characterized by arthralgias, chronic diarrhea, weight loss, fever, and 
abdominal pain. Central nervous system involvement, including severe cognitive 
deterioration, may precede systemic manifestations, appear during the course of 
the disease, or even be the only symptom. We report a previously highly 
functional 48-year-old man whom we first suspected of having early-onset 
neurodegenerative dementia but then diagnosed with Whipple disease based on a 
detailed clinical and laboratory evaluation. Initial neuropsychological 
evaluation revealed marked impairment in the patient's fluid intelligence and 
severe cognitive deficits in his information processing speed, complex 
attention, memory, visuomotor and construction dexterities, problem solving, and 
executive functions. At neuropsychological follow-up 21 months later, his 
information processing speed had improved only slightly and deficits persisted 
in his other cognitive functions. Repeat brain magnetic resonance imaging at 
that time showed that he had responded to antibiotic treatment. Because Whipple 
disease can cause young-onset "dementia plus" syndromes that may leave patients 
with neurocognitive deficits even after apparently successful treatment, we 
recommend comprehensive neuropsychological assessment for early detection of 
residual and reversible cognitive processes and evaluation of treatment 
response.

DOI: 10.1097/WNN.0000000000000016
PMID: 24674966 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


580. AJNR Am J Neuroradiol. 2014 Aug;35(8):1580-5. doi: 10.3174/ajnr.A3899. Epub 2014 
Mar 27.

PET in infancy predicts long-term outcome during adolescence in cryptogenic West 
syndrome.

Natsume J(1), Maeda N(2), Itomi K(3), Kidokoro H(2), Ishihara N(2), Takada H(2), 
Okumura A(4), Kubota T(5), Miura K(2), Aso K(6), Morikawa T(7), Kato K(8), 
Negoro T(2), Watanabe K(9).

Author information:
(1)From the Departments of Pediatrics (J.N., N.M., H.K., N.I., H.T., K.M., T.N.) 
junnatsu@med.nagoya-u.ac.jp.
(2)From the Departments of Pediatrics (J.N., N.M., H.K., N.I., H.T., K.M., 
T.N.).
(3)Department of Neurology (K.I.), Aichi Children's Health and Medical Center, 
Obu, Japan.
(4)Department of Pediatrics (A.O.), Juntendo University Faculty of Medicine, 
Tokyo, Japan.
(5)Department of Pediatrics (T.K.), Anjo Kosei Hospital, Anjo, Japan.
(6)Department of Pediatrics (K.A.), Aichi Prefecture Medical Welfare Center of 
Aoitori, Nagoya, Japan.
(7)Morikawa Clinic (T.M.), Nagoya, Japan.
(8)Radiological and Medical Laboratory Sciences (K.K.), Nagoya University 
Graduate School of Medicine, Nagoya, Japan.
(9)Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences (K.W.), Aichi Shukutoku University, 
Nagakute, Japan.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Developmental and seizure outcomes in patients with 
cryptogenic West syndrome are variable. Our aim was to clarify the relationship 
between FDG-PET findings in infancy and long-term seizure and developmental 
outcome in cryptogenic West syndrome.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: From 1991 to 1999, we prospectively performed FDG-PET 
from the onset of cryptogenic West syndrome in 27 patients. PET was performed at 
onset and at 10 months of age. In 2012, we evaluated the educational status, 
psychomotor development, and seizure outcome in 23 of the 27 patients (13-22 
years of age). The correlation between PET findings and outcome was evaluated.
RESULTS: At onset, PET showed hypometabolism in 13 patients (57%). The second 
PET after the initial treatment revealed cortical hypometabolism in 7 patients 
(30%). While hypometabolism at onset disappeared on the second PET in 9 
patients, it was newly revealed in 3 patients on the second PET. In 2012, seven 
patients had persistent or recurrent seizures. Eight patients had intellectual 
impairment. The first PET did not correlate with seizure or developmental 
outcome. Five of 7 patients (71%) with hypometabolism seen on the second PET had 
persistent or recurrent seizures, while 14 of 16 (88%) patients with normal 
findings on the second PET were free of seizures. Five of 7 patients (71%) 
showing hypometabolism on the second PET had intellectual impairment. Thirteen 
of 16 (81%) patients with normal findings on the second PET showed normal 
intelligence. A significant correlation was found between the second PET and 
long-term seizure (P = .01) or developmental outcome (P = .03).
CONCLUSIONS: Cortical hypometabolism is not permanent; it changes with clinical 
symptoms. Hypometabolism after initial treatment predicts long-term seizures and 
poor developmental outcome.

© 2014 by American Journal of Neuroradiology.

DOI: 10.3174/ajnr.A3899
PMCID: PMC7964455
PMID: 24676006 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


581. Hum Brain Mapp. 2014 Aug;35(8):3805-18. doi: 10.1002/hbm.22438. Epub 2014 Feb 
22.

Reversed hierarchy in the brain for general and specific cognitive abilities: a 
morphometric analysis.

Román FJ(1), Abad FJ, Escorial S, Burgaleta M, Martínez K, Álvarez-Linera J, 
Quiroga MÁ, Karama S, Haier RJ, Colom R.

Author information:
(1)Facultad de Psicología, Universidad Autónoma de Madrid, 28049, Madrid, Spain; 
Fundación CIEN - Fundación Reina Sofía, 28031, Madrid, Spain.

Intelligence is composed of a set of cognitive abilities hierarchically 
organized. General and specific abilities capture distinguishable, but related, 
facets of the intelligence construct. Here, we analyze gray matter with three 
morphometric indices (volume, cortical surface area, and cortical thickness) at 
three levels of the intelligence hierarchy (tests, first-order factors, and a 
higher-order general factor, g). A group of one hundred and four healthy young 
adults completed a cognitive battery and underwent high-resolution structural 
MRI. Latent scores were computed for the intelligence factors and tests were 
also analyzed. The key finding reveals substantial variability in gray matter 
correlates at the test level, which is substantially reduced for the first-order 
and the higher-order factors. This supports a reversed hierarchy in the brain 
with respect to cognitive abilities at different psychometric levels: the 
greater the generality, the smaller the number of relevant gray matter clusters 
accounting for individual differences in intelligent performance.

Copyright © 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/hbm.22438
PMCID: PMC6869303
PMID: 24677433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


582. Trends Ecol Evol. 2014 Jun;29(6):306-8. doi: 10.1016/j.tree.2014.03.008. Epub 
2014 Mar 26.

Why personality differences matter for social functioning and social structure.

Wolf M(1), Krause J(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology and Ecology of Fishes, Leibniz-Institute of Freshwater 
Ecology and Inland Fisheries, Mueggelseedamm 310, 12587 Berlin, Germany. 
Electronic address: m.wolf@igb-berlin.de.
(2)Department of Biology and Ecology of Fishes, Leibniz-Institute of Freshwater 
Ecology and Inland Fisheries, Mueggelseedamm 310, 12587 Berlin, Germany.

We outline three main ways how personality differences can affect social 
functioning and social structure. By highlighting the broad and significant 
consequences that personality differences can have for social processes, our 
article might serve as a starting point for a research focus that aims at a 
systematic understanding of these consequences.

Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tree.2014.03.008
PMID: 24679987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


583. Sensors (Basel). 2014 Mar 27;14(4):6045-55. doi: 10.3390/s140406045.

Ambient intelligence application based on environmental measurements performed 
with an assistant mobile robot.

Martinez D(1), Teixidó M(2), Font D(3), Moreno J(4), Tresanchez M(2), Marco 
S(5), Palacín J(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Computer Science and Industrial Engineering, University of 
Lleida, Jaume II, 69, 25001 Lleida, Spain. dmartinez@diei.udl.cat.
(2)Department of Computer Science and Industrial Engineering, University of 
Lleida, Jaume II, 69, 25001 Lleida, Spain. mteixido@diei.udl.cat.
(3)Department of Computer Science and Industrial Engineering, University of 
Lleida, Jaume II, 69, 25001 Lleida, Spain. dfont@diei.udl.cat.
(4)Department of Computer Science and Industrial Engineering, University of 
Lleida, Jaume II, 69, 25001 Lleida, Spain. jmoreno@diei.udl.cat.
(5)Department of Electronics, University of Barcelona, Martí Franquès, 1, 08028 
Barcelona, Spain. smarco@ibecbarcelona.eu.
(6)Department of Computer Science and Industrial Engineering, University of 
Lleida, Jaume II, 69, 25001 Lleida, Spain. palacin@diei.udl.cat.

This paper proposes the use of an autonomous assistant mobile robot in order to 
monitor the environmental conditions of a large indoor area and develop an 
ambient intelligence application. The mobile robot uses single high performance 
embedded sensors in order to collect and geo-reference environmental information 
such as ambient temperature, air velocity and orientation and gas concentration. 
The data collected with the assistant mobile robot is analyzed in order to 
detect unusual measurements or discrepancies and develop focused corrective 
ambient actions. This paper shows an example of the measurements performed in a 
research facility which have enabled the detection and location of an 
uncomfortable temperature profile inside an office of the research facility. The 
ambient intelligent application has been developed by performing some localized 
ambient measurements that have been analyzed in order to propose some ambient 
actuations to correct the uncomfortable temperature profile.

DOI: 10.3390/s140406045
PMCID: PMC4029677
PMID: 24681671 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


584. Assessment. 2014 Jun;21(3):260-71. doi: 10.1177/1073191114528029. Epub 2014 Mar 
28.

Exploratory structural equation modeling of personality data.

Booth T(1), Hughes DJ(2).

Author information:
(1)University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, Scotland tom.booth@ed.ac.uk.
(2)University of Manchester, Manchester, UK Coventry University, Coventry, UK.

The current article compares the use of exploratory structural equation modeling 
(ESEM) as an alternative to confirmatory factor analytic (CFA) models in 
personality research. We compare model fit, factor distinctiveness, and 
criterion associations of factors derived from ESEM and CFA models. In Sample 1 
(n = 336) participants completed the NEO-FFI, the Trait Emotional Intelligence 
Questionnaire-Short Form, and the Creative Domains Questionnaire. In Sample 2 (n 
= 425) participants completed the Big Five Inventory and the depression and 
anxiety scales of the General Health Questionnaire. ESEM models provided better 
fit than CFA models, but ESEM solutions did not uniformly meet cutoff criteria 
for model fit. Factor scores derived from ESEM and CFA models correlated highly 
(.91 to .99), suggesting the additional factor loadings within the ESEM model 
add little in defining latent factor content. Lastly, criterion associations of 
each personality factor in CFA and ESEM models were near identical in both 
inventories. We provide an example of how ESEM and CFA might be used together in 
improving personality assessment.

© The Author(s) 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/1073191114528029
PMID: 24682748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


585. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2014 Jul;99(7):2383-90. doi: 10.1210/jc.2013-4281. Epub 
2014 Mar 31.

Downstream effects of maternal hypothyroxinemia in early pregnancy: nonverbal IQ 
and brain morphology in school-age children.

Ghassabian A(1), El Marroun H, Peeters RP, Jaddoe VW, Hofman A, Verhulst FC, 
Tiemeier H, White T.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry (A.G., H.E.M., F.C.V., H.T., 
T.W.) and Pediatrics (V.W.J.), Erasmus Medical Center-Sophia's Children 
Hospital, 3000 CB Rotterdam, the Netherlands; and The Generation R Study Group 
(A.G., H.E.M.) and Departments of Internal Medicine (R.P.P.), Epidemiology 
(V.W.J., A.H., H.T.), Psychiatry (H.T.), and Radiology (T.W.), Erasmus Medical 
Center, 3000 CA Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

CONTEXT: Although maternal hypothyroxinemia is suggested to be related to 
various adverse consequences in a child's neurodevelopment, the underlying 
neurobiology is largely unknown.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of the study was to examine the relationship between 
maternal hypothyroxinemia in early pregnancy and children's nonverbal 
intelligence quotient (IQ). Furthermore, we explored whether global brain 
volumes, cortical thickness, and brain surface area differed between children 
exposed prenatally to hypothyroxinemia and healthy controls.
DESIGN AND SETTING: The study included a large population-based prospective 
birth cohort in The Netherlands.
PARTICIPANTS: A total of 3727 mother-child pairs with data on prenatal thyroid 
function at less than 18 weeks of gestation and nonverbal IQ at 6 years 
participated in the study. In 652 children, brain imaging was performed at 8 
years of age.
MAIN MEASURES: Maternal hypothyroxinemia was defined as free T4 in the lowest 5% 
of the sample, whereas TSH was in the normal range. At 6 years, children's IQ 
was assessed using a Dutch test battery. Global brain volumetric measures, 
cortical thickness, and surface area were assessed using high-resolution 
structural magnetic resonance imaging.
RESULTS: The children of mothers with hypothyroxinemia in early pregnancy scored 
4.3 points IQ lower than the children of mothers with normal thyroid status (95% 
confidence interval -6.68, -1.81; P = .001). After adjustment for multiple 
testing, we did not find any differences in brain volumetric measures, cortical 
thickness, and surface area between children exposed prenatally to 
hypothyroxinemia and controls.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings confirm a large adverse effect of maternal 
hypothyroxinemia on children's nonverbal IQ at school age. However, we found no 
evidence that maternal hypothyroxinemia is associated with differences in brain 
morphology in school-age children.

DOI: 10.1210/jc.2013-4281
PMID: 24684462 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


586. Environ Health. 2014 Apr 1;13(1):23. doi: 10.1186/1476-069X-13-23.

A cross-sectional study of well water arsenic and child IQ in Maine 
schoolchildren.

Wasserman GA(1), Liu X, Loiacono NJ, Kline J, Factor-Litvak P, van Geen A, Mey 
JL, Levy D, Abramson R, Schwartz A, Graziano JH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia 
University New York, NY, USA. wassermg@nyspi.columbia.edu.

BACKGROUND: In recent studies in Bangladesh and elsewhere, exposure to arsenic 
(As) via drinking water is negatively associated with performance-related 
aspects of child intelligence (e.g., Perceptual Reasoning, Working Memory) after 
adjustment for social factors. Because findings are not easily generalizable to 
the US, we examine this relation in a US population.
METHODS: In 272 children in grades 3-5 from three Maine school districts, we 
examine associations between drinking water As (WAs) and intelligence (WISC-IV).
RESULTS: On average, children had resided in their current home for 7.3 years 
(approximately 75% of their lives). In unadjusted analyses, household well WAs 
is associated with decreased scores on most WISC-IV Indices. With adjustment for 
maternal IQ and education, HOME environment, school district and number of 
siblings, WAs remains significantly negatively associated with Full Scale IQ and 
Perceptual Reasoning, Working Memory and Verbal Comprehension scores. Compared 
to those with WAs < 5 μg/L, exposure to WAs ≥ 5 μg/L was associated with 
reductions of approximately 5-6 points in both Full Scale IQ (p < 0.01) and most 
Index scores (Perceptual Reasoning, Working Memory, Verbal Comprehension, all 
p's < 0.05). Both maternal IQ and education were associated with lower levels of 
WAs, possibly reflecting behaviors (e.g., water filters, residential choice) 
limiting exposure. Both WAs and maternal measures were associated with school 
district.
CONCLUSIONS: The magnitude of the association between WAs and child IQ raises 
the possibility that levels of WAs ≥ 5 μg/L, levels that are not uncommon in the 
United States, pose a threat to child development.

DOI: 10.1186/1476-069X-13-23
PMCID: PMC4104994
PMID: 24684736 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


587. Orthod Fr. 2014 Mar;85(1):3-29. doi: 10.1051/orthodfr/2013073. Epub 2014 Apr 1.

[Beauty judgment: review of the literature].

[Article in French]

Faure J(1), Bolender Y(2).

Author information:
(1)10 place Lannes, 32021 Auch, France.
(2)Faculté de Chirurgie Dentaire, 1 place de l'Hôpital, 67000 Strasbourg, 
France.

Esthetic judgments are surely subjective, but as surely, that does not preclude 
them being studied objectively through rigorous scientific methods. The factual 
basis of a science of esthetics is not to settle whether some person or image is 
"objectively beautiful" but rather to determine whether some representative set 
or sets of individuals judge or experience him/her/it as beautiful or 
unattractive. The aim of this paper is to review the definitional, theoretical 
and methodological aspects pertaining to the perception of facial/dental 
attractiveness by a group of representative individuals. The first part lays 
down the basic principles of the perception of facial/dental attractiveness: the 
perception involves a jury, a field of investigation and a test providing 
quantitative data; the following general determinants of beauty perception are 
reviewed: the average morphology, the judge's cultural background, the 
numerology, the judge's ethnical origin. Indirect determinants are the 
dentition, the osseous architecture and the muscular envelope. Some disruptive 
factors might alter the judges' facial perception. They might be qualified as 
either peripheral to the face or psycho-social factors. Peripheral factors 
include hair style and color, skin hue, wrinkles, lips color... Psycho-social 
factors cover the personality of the subject being evaluated, his/her 
intelligence or behavior. The second part deals specifically with the 
methodology used to determine facial attractiveness and to correlate this latter 
with a specific morphology. Typically such a study aims to determine average 
esthetic preferences for some set of visual displays among a particular jury, 
given a specific task to judge esthetic quality or qualities. The sample being 
studied, the displays, the jury or jurys, the rating procedure must all be 
specified prior to collecting data. A specific emphasis will be given to the 
rating process and the associated morphometrics, the ultimate goal being to 
discriminate morphologies judged as attractive among our patients.

© EDP Sciences, SFODF, 2014.

DOI: 10.1051/orthodfr/2013073
PMID: 24685247 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


588. Accid Anal Prev. 2014 Sep;70:24-32. doi: 10.1016/j.aap.2014.03.006. Epub 2014 
Mar 28.

The influence of dispositional mindfulness on safety behaviors: a dual process 
perspective.

Zhang J(1), Wu C(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Psychology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China.
(2)Chinese Academy of Sciences, China; State University of New York. Electronic 
address: changxu.wu@gmail.com.

Erratum in
    Accid Anal Prev. 2015 Mar;76:166.

Based on the dual process model of human cognition, this study investigated the 
influence of dispositional mindfulness on operators' safety behaviors and its 
boundary conditions. In a sample of 212 nuclear power plant control room 
operators, it was found that both safety compliance and safety participation 
behaviors were positively influenced by dispositional mindfulness as measured by 
the 14-item Freiburg Mindfulness Inventory. This effect was still positive after 
controlling for age, intelligence, work experience and conscientiousness. 
Moreover, two boundary conditions were identified: the impact of dispositional 
mindfulness of safety behaviors was stronger among operators who were either 
more experienced or more intelligent. Theoretically, the framework we used to 
understand the benefit of mindfulness on safety behaviors has been proved to be 
useful. Practically, it provides a new and valid criterion that could be used in 
operators' selection and training program to improve organizational safety.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.aap.2014.03.006
PMID: 24686163 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


589. Am J Speech Lang Pathol. 2014 May;23(2):S271-84. doi: 
10.1044/2014_AJSLP-13-0095.

Does brain volume loss predict cognitive and narrative discourse performance 
following traumatic brain injury?

Lê K, Coelho C, Mozeiko J, Krueger F, Grafman J.

PURPOSE: In this study, the authors investigated the relationship between brain 
volume loss and performance on cognitive measures, including working memory, 
immediate memory, executive functions, and intelligence, and a narrative 
discourse production task. An underlying goal was to examine the prognostic 
potential of a brain lesion metric for discourse outcomes. It was hypothesized 
that brain volume loss would correlate with and predict cognitive and narrative 
discourse measures and have prognostic value for discourse outcomes.
METHOD: One hundred sixty-seven individuals with penetrating head injury 
participated. Correlational and regression analyses were performed for the 
percentages of total brain and hemispheric volume loss and scores on 4 cognitive 
measures (WMS-III Working Memory and Immediate Memory primary indexes, D-KEFS 
Sorting Test, and WAIS-III Full Scale IQ) and 7 narrative discourse measures 
(T-units, grammatical complexity, cohesion, local and global coherence, story 
completeness, and story grammar).
RESULTS: The volumetric measures had significant small-to-moderate correlations 
with all cognitive measures but only one significant correlation with the 
discourse measures. Findings from regression analyses were analogous but 
revealed several models that approached significance.
CONCLUSION: Findings suggest that an overall measure of brain damage may be more 
predictive of general cognitive status than of narrative discourse ability. 
Atrophy measures in specific brain regions may be more informative.

DOI: 10.1044/2014_AJSLP-13-0095
PMID: 24686463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


590. Arch Clin Neuropsychol. 2014 May;29(3):300-12. doi: 10.1093/arclin/acu006. Epub 
2014 Mar 30.

Convergent validity of the Integrated Visual and Auditory Continuous Performance 
Test (IVA+Plus): associations with working memory, processing speed, and 
behavioral ratings.

Arble E(1), Kuentzel J, Barnett D.

Author information:
(1)Wayne State University, Detroit, MI, USA.

Though the Integrated Visual and Auditory Continuous Performance Test (IVA + 
Plus) is commonly used by researchers and clinicians, few investigations have 
assessed its convergent and discriminant validity, especially with regard to its 
use with children. The present study details correlates of the IVA + Plus using 
measures of cognitive ability and ratings of child behavior (parent and 
teacher), drawing upon a sample of 90 psychoeducational evaluations. Scores from 
the IVA + Plus correlated significantly with the Working Memory and Processing 
Speed Indexes from the Fourth Edition of the Wechsler Intelligence Scales for 
Children (WISC-IV), though fewer and weaker significant correlations were seen 
with behavior ratings scales, and significant associations also occurred with 
WISC-IV Verbal Comprehension and Perceptual Reasoning. The overall pattern of 
relations is supportive of the validity of the IVA + Plus; however, general 
cognitive ability was associated with better performance on most of the primary 
scores of the IVA + Plus, suggesting that interpretation should take 
intelligence into account.

DOI: 10.1093/arclin/acu006
PMID: 24687587 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


591. J Appl Res Intellect Disabil. 2014 Nov;27(6):555-63. doi: 10.1111/jar.12093. 
Epub 2014 Mar 29.

Ageing and dementia in a longitudinal study of a cohort with Down syndrome.

Carr J(1), Collins S.

Author information:
(1)Gaston Cottages formerly at St George's Hospital, Cranmer Terrace, London, 
SW170RE, UK.

BACKGROUND: A population sample of people with Down syndrome has been studied 
from infancy and has now been followed up again at age 47 years.
METHODS: Intelligence and language skills were tested and daily living skills 
assessed. Memory/cognitive deterioration was examined using two test 
instruments.
RESULTS: Scores on verbal tests of intelligence changed little. Those on a 
non-verbal test, on self-help skills and on both memory tests showed some 
decline, even when the scores of those already suffering from dementia were 
discounted.
CONCLUSIONS: At age 47, scores on most tests of even the majority of the cohort 
(i.e. those not definitely diagnosed with dementia) showed some decline. While 
this includes the scores of people who may subsequently develop dementia, it may 
also reflect the normal ageing process in this population.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jar.12093
PMID: 24687962 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


592. PeerJ. 2014 Mar 4;2:e294. doi: 10.7717/peerj.294. eCollection 2014.

Adult neurobehavioral outcome of hyperbilirubinemia in full term neonates-a 30 
year prospective follow-up study.

Hokkanen L(1), Launes J(1), Michelsson K(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Behavioural Sciences, University of Helsinki , Helsinki , 
Finland.

Background. Neonatal hyperbilirubinemia (HB) may cause severe neurological 
damage, but serious consequences are effectively controlled by phototherapy and 
blood exchange transfusion. HB is still a serious health problem in economically 
compromised parts of the world. The long term outcome has been regarded 
favorable based on epidemiological data, but has not been confirmed in 
prospective follow-up studies extending to adulthood. Methods. We studied the 
long term consequences of HB in a prospective birth cohort of 128 HB cases and 
82 controls. The cases are part of a neonatal at-risk cohort (n = 1196) that has 
been followed up to 30 years of age. HB cases were newborns ≥ 2500 g birth 
weight and ≥ 37 weeks of gestation who had bilirubin concentrations > 340 µmol/l 
or required blood exchange transfusion. Subjects with HB were divided into 
subgroups based on the presence (affected HB) or absence (unaffected HB) of 
diagnosed neurobehavioral disorders in childhood, and compared with healthy 
controls. Subjects were seen at discharge, 5, 9 and 16 years of life and 
parent's and teacher's assessments were recorded. At 30 years they filled a 
questionnaire about academic and occupational achievement, life satisfaction, 
somatic and psychiatric symptoms including a ADHD self-rating score. Cognitive 
functioning was tested using ITPA, WISC, and reading and writing tests at 9 
years of life. Results. Compared to controls, the odds for a child with HB 
having neurobehavioral symptoms at 9 years was elevated (OR = 4.68). Forty-five 
per cent of the HB group were affected by cognitive abnormalities in childhood 
and continued to experience problems in adulthood. This was apparent in academic 
achievement (p < 0.0001) and the ability to complete secondary (p < 0.0001) and 
tertiary (p < 0.004) education. Also, the subgroup of affected HB reported 
persisting cognitive complaints e.g., problems with reading, writing and 
mathematics. Childhood symptoms of hyperactivity/impulsivity (p < 0.0001) and 
inattention (p < 0.02) were more common in HB groups, but in adulthood the 
symptoms were equal. The affected HB had lower scores in parameters reflecting 
life satisfaction, less controlled drinking, but not increased substance abuse. 
Discussion. Our results indicate that neonatal HB has negative consequences in 
adult age. A prospectively collected cohort with strict inclusion criteria 
enables to control most of the bias factors involved with retrospective data. 
The control and HB groups were remarkably similar at birth in terms of medical 
data, and the growth environment of the children, as well as the parents' social 
groups, education, size of family, type of housing at birth and at 9 years of 
age. Our findings bear resemblance to disorders of the fronto-striatal network, 
and also symptoms of the ADHD spectrum were frequent in the HB group suggesting 
a link of HB to other neurodevelopmental disorders.

DOI: 10.7717/peerj.294
PMCID: PMC3961148
PMID: 24688870


593. Res Dev Disabil. 2014 Jun;35(6):1310-6. doi: 10.1016/j.ridd.2014.03.021. Epub 
2014 Mar 30.

Underlying mechanisms of writing difficulties among children with 
neurofibromatosis type 1.

Gilboa Y(1), Josman N(2), Fattal-Valevski A(3), Toledano-Alhadef H(4), Rosenblum 
S(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Occupational Therapy, Faculty of Social Welfare and Health 
Sciences, University of Haifa, Haifa 31905, Israel. Electronic address: 
yafitlaytman@yahoo.com.
(2)Department of Occupational Therapy, Faculty of Social Welfare and Health 
Sciences, University of Haifa, Haifa 31905, Israel. Electronic address: 
naomij@research.haifa.ac.il.
(3)Pediatric Neurology Unit and the Gilbert Israeli Neurofibromatosis Center 
(GINFC), Dana Children's Hospital, Tel Aviv Sourasky Medical Center, 6 Weizmann 
Street, Tel Aviv 64239, Israel. Electronic address: afatal@post.tau.ac.il.
(4)Pediatric Neurology Unit and the Gilbert Israeli Neurofibromatosis Center 
(GINFC), Dana Children's Hospital, Tel Aviv Sourasky Medical Center, 6 Weizmann 
Street, Tel Aviv 64239, Israel. Electronic address: drtoledano@gmail.com.
(5)Department of Occupational Therapy, Faculty of Social Welfare and Health 
Sciences, University of Haifa, Haifa 31905, Israel. Electronic address: 
rosens@univ.haifa.ac.il.

Writing is a complex activity in which lower-level perceptual-motor processes 
and higher-level cognitive processes continuously interact. Preliminary evidence 
suggests that writing difficulties are common to children with Neurofibromatosis 
type 1 (NF1). The aim of this study was to compare the performance of children 
with and without NF1 in lower (visual perception, motor coordination and 
visual-motor integration) and higher processes (verbal and performance 
intelligence, visual spatial organization and visual memory) required for intact 
writing; and to identify the components that predict the written product's 
spatial arrangement and content among children with NF1. Thirty children with 
NF1 (ages 8-16) and 30 typically developing children matched by gender and age 
were tested, using standardized assessments. Children with NF1 had a 
significantly inferior performance in comparison to control children, on all 
tests that measured lower and higher level processes. The cognitive planning 
skill was found as a predictor of the written product's spatial arrangement. The 
verbal intelligence predicted the written content level. Results suggest that 
high level processes underlie the poor quality of writing product in children 
with NF1. Treatment approaches for children with NF1 must include detailed 
assessments of cognitive planning and language skills.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ridd.2014.03.021
PMID: 24691356 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


594. J Med Internet Res. 2014 Apr 2;16(4):e100. doi: 10.2196/jmir.2642.

The impact of search engine selection and sorting criteria on vaccination 
beliefs and attitudes: two experiments manipulating Google output.

Allam A(1), Schulz PJ, Nakamoto K.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Communication and Health, Faculty of Communication Sciences, 
University of Lugano (Università della Svizzera italiana), Lugano, Switzerland. 
ahmed.allam@usi.ch.

BACKGROUND: During the past 2 decades, the Internet has evolved to become a 
necessity in our daily lives. The selection and sorting algorithms of search 
engines exert tremendous influence over the global spread of information and 
other communication processes.
OBJECTIVE: This study is concerned with demonstrating the influence of selection 
and sorting/ranking criteria operating in search engines on users' knowledge, 
beliefs, and attitudes of websites about vaccination. In particular, it is to 
compare the effects of search engines that deliver websites emphasizing on the 
pro side of vaccination with those focusing on the con side and with normal 
Google as a control group.
METHOD: We conducted 2 online experiments using manipulated search engines. A 
pilot study was to verify the existence of dangerous health literacy in 
connection with searching and using health information on the Internet by 
exploring the effect of 2 manipulated search engines that yielded either pro or 
con vaccination sites only, with a group receiving normal Google as control. A 
pre-post test design was used; participants were American marketing students 
enrolled in a study-abroad program in Lugano, Switzerland. The second experiment 
manipulated the search engine by applying different ratios of con versus pro 
vaccination webpages displayed in the search results. Participants were 
recruited from Amazon's Mechanical Turk platform where it was published as a 
human intelligence task (HIT).
RESULTS: Both experiments showed knowledge highest in the group offered only pro 
vaccination sites (Z=-2.088, P=.03; Kruskal-Wallis H test [H₅]=11.30, P=.04). 
They acknowledged the importance/benefits (Z=-2.326, P=.02; H5=11.34, P=.04) and 
effectiveness (Z=-2.230, P=.03) of vaccination more, whereas groups offered 
antivaccination sites only showed increased concern about effects (Z=-2.582, 
P=.01; H₅=16.88, P=.005) and harmful health outcomes (Z=-2.200, P=.02) of 
vaccination. Normal Google users perceived information quality to be positive 
despite a small effect on knowledge and a negative effect on their beliefs and 
attitudes toward vaccination and willingness to recommend the information 
(χ²₅=14.1, P=.01). More exposure to antivaccination websites lowered 
participants' knowledge (J=4783.5, z=-2.142, P=.03) increased their fear of side 
effects (J=6496, z=2.724, P=.006), and lowered their acknowledgment of benefits 
(J=4805, z=-2.067, P=.03).
CONCLUSION: The selection and sorting/ranking criteria of search engines play a 
vital role in online health information seeking. Search engines delivering 
websites containing credible and evidence-based medical information impact 
positively Internet users seeking health information. Whereas sites retrieved by 
biased search engines create some opinion change in users. These effects are 
apparently independent of users' site credibility and evaluation judgments. 
Users are affected beneficially or detrimentally but are unaware, suggesting 
they are not consciously perceptive of indicators that steer them toward the 
credible sources or away from the dangerous ones. In this sense, the online 
health information seeker is flying blind.

DOI: 10.2196/jmir.2642
PMCID: PMC4004139
PMID: 24694866 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


595. Med Educ Online. 2014 Apr 1;19:22919. doi: 10.3402/meo.v19.22919. eCollection 
2014.

A holistic review of the medical school admission process: examining correlates 
of academic underperformance.

Stratton TD(1), Elam CL(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Behavioral Science, Office of Medical Education, University of 
Kentucky College of Medicine, Lexington, KY, USA; tdstra00@email.uky.edu.
(2)Department of Behavioral Science, Office of Medical Education, University of 
Kentucky College of Medicine, Lexington, KY, USA.

Comment in
    Med Educ Online. 2014;19:26041.

BACKGROUND: Despite medical school admission committees' best efforts, a handful 
of seemingly capable students invariably struggle during their first year of 
study. Yet, even as entrance criteria continue to broaden beyond cognitive 
qualifications, attention inevitably reverts back to such factors when seeking 
to understand these phenomena. Using a host of applicant, admission, and 
post-admission variables, the purpose of this inductive study, then, was to 
identify a constellation of student characteristics that, taken collectively, 
would be predictive of students at-risk of underperforming during the first year 
of medical school. In it, we hypothesize that a wider range of factors than 
previously recognized could conceivably play roles in understanding why students 
experience academic problems early in the medical educational continuum.
METHODS: The study sample consisted of the five most recent matriculant cohorts 
from a large, southeastern medical school (n=537). Independent variables 
reflected: 1) the personal demographics of applicants (e.g., age, gender); 2) 
academic criteria (e.g., undergraduate grade point averages [GPA], medical 
college admission test); 3) selection processes (e.g., entrance track, interview 
scores, committee votes); and 4) other indicators of personality and 
professionalism (e.g., Mayer-Salovey-Caruso Emotional Intelligence Test™ 
emotional intelligence scores, NEO PI-R™ personality profiles, and appearances 
before the Professional Code Committee [PCC]). The dependent variable, 
first-year underperformance, was defined as ANY action (repeat, conditionally 
advance, or dismiss) by the college's Student Progress and Promotions Committee 
(SPPC) in response to predefined academic criteria. This study protocol was 
approved by the local medical institutional review board (IRB).
RESULTS: Of the 537 students comprising the study sample, 61 (11.4%) met the 
specified criterion for academic underperformance. Significantly increased 
academic risks were identified among students who 1) had lower mean 
undergraduate science GPAs (OR=0.24, p=0.001); 2) entered medical school via an 
accelerated BS/MD track (OR=16.15, p=0.002); 3) were 31 years of age or older 
(OR=14.76, p=0.005); and 4) were non-unanimous admission committee admits 
(OR=0.53, p=0.042). Two dimensions of the NEO PI-R™ personality inventory, 
openness (+) and conscientiousness (-), were modestly but significantly 
correlated with academic underperformance. Only for the latter, however, were 
mean scores found to differ significantly between academic performers and 
underperformers. Finally, appearing before the college's PCC (OR=4.21, p=0.056) 
fell just short of statistical significance.
CONCLUSIONS: Our review of various correlates across the matriculation process 
highlights the heterogeneity of factors underlying students' underperformance 
during the first year of medical school and challenges medical educators to 
understand the complexity of predicting who, among admitted matriculants, may be 
at future academic risk.

DOI: 10.3402/meo.v19.22919
PMCID: PMC3974177
PMID: 24695362 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


596. Intelligence. 2014 Mar;43(100):35-46. doi: 10.1016/j.intell.2013.12.007.

Why do we differ in number sense? Evidence from a genetically sensitive 
investigation.

Tosto MG(1), Petrill SA(2), Halberda J(3), Trzaskowski M(4), Tikhomirova TN(5), 
Bogdanova OY(5), Ly R(3), Wilmer JB(6), Naiman DQ(3), Germine L(7), Plomin R(4), 
Kovas Y(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of York, Heslington, York YO10 5DD, 
United Kingdom ; Department of Psychology, Tomsk State University, 36 Lenin 
Prospekt, 634050, Tomsk, Russia.
(2)The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH 43210, United States.
(3)Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences, The Johns Hopkins University, 
Baltimore, MD 21218-268, United States.
(4)King's College London, MRC Social, Genetic and Developmental Psychiatry 
Centre, Institute of Psychiatry, De Crespigny Park, London SE5 8AF, United 
Kingdom.
(5)Department of Psychology, Tomsk State University, 36 Lenin Prospekt, 634050, 
Tomsk, Russia.
(6)Department of Psychology, Wellesley College, Central Street, Wellesley, MA 
02481, United States.
(7)Center for Human Genetic Research, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, MA 02114, United States.
(8)Department of Psychology, Tomsk State University, 36 Lenin Prospekt, 634050, 
Tomsk, Russia ; King's College London, MRC Social, Genetic and Developmental 
Psychiatry Centre, Institute of Psychiatry, De Crespigny Park, London SE5 8AF, 
United Kingdom ; Goldsmiths, University of London, London SE14 6NW, United 
Kingdom.

Basic intellectual abilities of quantity and numerosity estimation have been 
detected across animal species. Such abilities are referred to as 'number 
sense'. For human species, individual differences in number sense are detectable 
early in life, persist in later development, and relate to general intelligence. 
The origins of these individual differences are unknown. To address this 
question, we conducted the first large-scale genetically sensitive investigation 
of number sense, assessing numerosity discrimination abilities in 837 pairs of 
monozygotic and 1422 pairs of dizygotic 16-year-old twin pairs. Univariate 
genetic analysis of the twin data revealed that number sense is modestly 
heritable (32%), with individual differences being largely explained by 
non-shared environmental influences (68%) and no contribution from shared 
environmental factors. Sex-Limitation model fitting revealed no differences 
between males and females in the etiology of individual differences in number 
sense abilities. We also carried out Genome-wide Complex Trait Analysis (GCTA) 
that estimates the population variance explained by additive effects of DNA 
differences among unrelated individuals. For 1118 unrelated individuals in our 
sample with genotyping information on 1.7 million DNA markers, GCTA estimated 
zero heritability for number sense, unlike other cognitive abilities in the same 
twin study where the GCTA heritability estimates were about 25%. The low 
heritability of number sense, observed in this study, is consistent with the 
directional selection explanation whereby additive genetic variance for 
evolutionary important traits is reduced.

DOI: 10.1016/j.intell.2013.12.007
PMCID: PMC3969293
PMID: 24696527


597. Environ Sci Pollut Res Int. 2014;21(14):8847-57. doi: 10.1007/s11356-014-2821-z. 
Epub 2014 Apr 5.

Artificial intelligence modeling to evaluate field performance of photocatalytic 
asphalt pavement for ambient air purification.

Asadi S(1), Hassan M, Nadiri A, Dylla H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Civil and Architectural Engineering, Texas A&M 
University-Kingsville, MSC 194, 700 University Blvd, Kingsville, TX, 7836, USA, 
Somayeh.asadi@tamuk.edu.

In recent years, the application of titanium dioxide (TiO₂) as a photocatalyst 
in asphalt pavement has received considerable attention for purifying ambient 
air from traffic-emitted pollutants via photocatalytic processes. In order to 
control the increasing deterioration of ambient air quality, urgent and proper 
risk assessment tools are deemed necessary. However, in practice, monitoring all 
process parameters for various operating conditions is difficult due to the 
complex and non-linear nature of air pollution-based problems. Therefore, the 
development of models to predict air pollutant concentrations is very useful 
because it can provide early warnings to the population and also reduce the 
number of measuring sites. This study used artificial neural network (ANN) and 
neuro-fuzzy (NF) models to predict NOx concentration in the air as a function of 
traffic count (Tr) and climatic conditions including humidity (H), temperature 
(T), solar radiation (S), and wind speed (W) before and after the application of 
TiO₂ on the pavement surface. These models are useful for modeling because of 
their ability to be trained using historical data and because of their 
capability for modeling highly non-linear relationships. To build these models, 
data were collected from a field study where an aqueous nano TiO₂ solution was 
sprayed on a 0.2-mile of asphalt pavement in Baton Rouge, LA. Results of this 
study showed that the NF model provided a better fitting to NOx measurements 
than the ANN model in the training, validation, and test steps. Results of a 
parametric study indicated that traffic level, relative humidity, and solar 
radiation had the most influence on photocatalytic efficiency.

DOI: 10.1007/s11356-014-2821-z
PMID: 24699867 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


598. PLoS One. 2014 Apr 3;9(4):e93623. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0093623. eCollection 
2014.

Neuroanatomical correlates of intelligence in healthy young adults: the role of 
basal ganglia volume.

Rhein C(1), Mühle C(1), Richter-Schmidinger T(1), Alexopoulos P(2), Doerfler 
A(3), Kornhuber J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University Hospital, 
Friedrich-Alexander-University Erlangen-Nuremberg, Erlangen, Germany.
(2)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University Hospital, 
Friedrich-Alexander-University Erlangen-Nuremberg, Erlangen, Germany; Department 
of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, Klinikum rechts der Isar der Technischen 
Universität München, Munich, Germany.
(3)Department of Neuroradiology, University Hospital, 
Friedrich-Alexander-University Erlangen-Nuremberg, Erlangen, Germany.

BACKGROUND: In neuropsychiatric diseases with basal ganglia involvement, higher 
cognitive functions are often impaired. In this exploratory study, we examined 
healthy young adults to gain detailed insight into the relationship between 
basal ganglia volume and cognitive abilities under non-pathological conditions.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We investigated 137 healthy adults that were 
between the ages of 21 and 35 years with similar educational backgrounds. 
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was performed, and volumes of basal ganglia 
nuclei in both hemispheres were calculated using FreeSurfer software. The 
cognitive assessment consisted of verbal, numeric and figural aspects of 
intelligence for either the fluid or the crystallised intelligence factor using 
the intelligence test Intelligenz-Struktur-Test (I-S-T 2000 R). Our data 
revealed significant correlations of the caudate nucleus and pallidum volumes 
with figural and numeric aspects of intelligence, but not with verbal 
intelligence. Interestingly, figural intelligence associations were dependent on 
sex and intelligence factor; in females, the pallidum volumes were correlated 
with crystallised figural intelligence (r = 0.372, p = 0.01), whereas in males, 
the caudate volumes were correlated with fluid figural intelligence (r = 0.507, 
p = 0.01). Numeric intelligence was correlated with right-lateralised caudate 
nucleus volumes for both females and males, but only for crystallised 
intelligence (r = 0.306, p = 0.04 and r = 0.459, p = 0.04, respectively). The 
associations were not mediated by prefrontal cortical subfield volumes when 
controlling with partial correlation analyses.
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: The findings of our exploratory analysis indicate that 
figural and numeric intelligence aspects, but not verbal aspects, are strongly 
associated with basal ganglia volumes. Unlike numeric intelligence, the type of 
figural intelligence appears to be related to distinct basal ganglia nuclei in a 
sex-specific manner. Subcortical brain structures thus may contribute 
substantially to cognitive performance.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0093623
PMCID: PMC3974758
PMID: 24699871 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


599. J Grad Med Educ. 2014 Mar;6(1):21-31. doi: 10.4300/JGME-D-13-00012.1.

A systematic review of physician leadership and emotional intelligence.

Mintz LJ, Stoller JK.

OBJECTIVE: This review evaluates the current understanding of emotional 
intelligence (EI) and physician leadership, exploring key themes and areas for 
future research.
LITERATURE SEARCH: We searched the literature using PubMed, Google Scholar, and 
Business Source Complete for articles published between 1990 and 2012. Search 
terms included physician and leadership, emotional intelligence, organizational 
behavior, and organizational development. All abstracts were reviewed. Full 
articles were evaluated if they addressed the connection between EI and 
physician leadership. Articles were included if they focused on physicians or 
physicians-in-training and discussed interventions or recommendations.
APPRAISAL AND SYNTHESIS: We assessed articles for conceptual rigor, study 
design, and measurement quality. A thematic analysis categorized the main themes 
and findings of the articles.
RESULTS: The search produced 3713 abstracts, of which 437 full articles were 
read and 144 were included in this review. Three themes were identified: (1) EI 
is broadly endorsed as a leadership development strategy across providers and 
settings; (2) models of EI and leadership development practices vary widely; and 
(3) EI is considered relevant throughout medical education and practice. 
Limitations of the literature were that most reports were expert opinion or 
observational and studies used several different tools for measuring EI.
CONCLUSIONS: EI is widely endorsed as a component of curricula for developing 
physician leaders. Research comparing practice models and measurement tools will 
critically advance understanding about how to develop and nurture EI to enhance 
leadership skills in physicians throughout their careers.

DOI: 10.4300/JGME-D-13-00012.1
PMCID: PMC3963790
PMID: 24701306


600. J Grad Med Educ. 2014 Mar;6(1):106-11. doi: 10.4300/JGME-D-13-00146.1.

The "zing factor"-how do faculty describe the best pediatrics residents?

Rosenbluth G, O'Brien B, Asher EM, Cho CS.

BACKGROUND: Faculty in graduate medical education programs may not have uniform 
approaches to differentiating the quality of residents, and reviews of 
evaluations suggest that faculty use different standards when assessing 
residents. Standards for assessing residents also do not consistently map to 
items on evaluation forms. One way to improve assessment is to reach consensus 
on the traits and behaviors that are (or should be) present in the best 
residents.
METHODS: A trained interviewer conducted semistructured interviews with faculty 
affiliated with 2 pediatrics residency programs until content saturation was 
achieved. Interviewees were asked to describe specific traits present in 
residents they identify as the best. Interviews were recorded and transcribed. 
We used an iterative, inductive approach to generate a coding scheme and 
identify common themes.
RESULTS: From 23 interviews, we identified 7 thematic categories of traits and 
behaviors: personality, energy, professionalism, team behaviors, 
self-improvement behaviors, patient-interaction behaviors, and medical knowledge 
and clinical skills (including a subcategory, knowledge integration). Most 
faculty interviewees focused on traits like passion, enthusiasm, maturity, and 
reliability. Examination score or intelligence was mentioned less frequently 
than traits and behaviors categorized under personality and professionalism.
CONCLUSIONS: Faculty identified many traits and behaviors in the residents they 
define as the best. The thematic categories had incomplete overlap with 
Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) and CanMEDS 
competencies. This research highlights the ongoing need to review our assessment 
strategies, and may have implications for the ACGME Milestone Project.

DOI: 10.4300/JGME-D-13-00146.1
PMCID: PMC3963764
PMID: 24701319


601. Healthc Financ Manage. 2014 Mar;68(3):42-4, 46.

Using business intelligence to reduce the cost of care.

Marino DJ.

An effective business intelligence (BI) system includes four different 
information strategies: population health analytics, risk-based cost analysis, 
performance analytics, care management.

PMID: 24701843 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


602. Environ Sci Pollut Res Int. 2014;21(15):9212-27. doi: 10.1007/s11356-014-2842-7. 
Epub 2014 Apr 8.

Modelling hourly dissolved oxygen concentration (DO) using dynamic evolving 
neural-fuzzy inference system (DENFIS)-based approach: case study of Klamath 
River at Miller Island Boat Ramp, OR, USA.

Heddam S(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Science, Agronomy Department, Hydraulics Division University, 20 
Août 1955, Route El Hadaik, BP 26, Skikda, Algeria, heddamsalim@yahoo.fr.

In this study, we present application of an artificial intelligence (AI) 
technique model called dynamic evolving neural-fuzzy inference system (DENFIS) 
based on an evolving clustering method (ECM), for modelling dissolved oxygen 
concentration in a river. To demonstrate the forecasting capability of DENFIS, a 
one year period from 1 January 2009 to 30 December 2009, of hourly experimental 
water quality data collected by the United States Geological Survey (USGS 
Station No: 420853121505500) station at Klamath River at Miller Island Boat 
Ramp, OR, USA, were used for model development. Two DENFIS-based models are 
presented and compared. The two DENFIS systems are: (1) offline-based system 
named DENFIS-OF, and (2) online-based system, named DENFIS-ON. The input 
variables used for the two models are water pH, temperature, specific 
conductance, and sensor depth. The performances of the models are evaluated 
using root mean square errors (RMSE), mean absolute error (MAE), Willmott index 
of agreement (d) and correlation coefficient (CC) statistics. The lowest root 
mean square error and highest correlation coefficient values were obtained with 
the DENFIS-ON method. The results obtained with DENFIS models are compared with 
linear (multiple linear regression, MLR) and nonlinear (multi-layer perceptron 
neural networks, MLPNN) methods. This study demonstrates that DENFIS-ON 
investigated herein outperforms all the proposed techniques for DO modelling.

DOI: 10.1007/s11356-014-2842-7
PMID: 24705953 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


603. Neuropsychiatr Dis Treat. 2014 Mar 25;10:513-7. doi: 10.2147/NDT.S58684. 
eCollection 2014.

Neuropsychological phenotype of a patient with a de novo 970 kb interstitial 
deletion in the distal 16p11.2 region.

Egger JI(1), Verhoeven WM(2), Verbeeck W(3), de Leeuw N(4).

Author information:
(1)Vincent van Gogh Institute for Psychiatry, Centre of Excellence for 
Neuropsychiatry, Venray, the Netherlands ; Donders Institute for Brain, 
Cognition and Behaviour, Radboud University Nijmegen, Nijmegen, the Netherlands 
; Behavioural Science Institute, Radboud University Nijmegen, Nijmegen, the 
Netherlands.
(2)Vincent van Gogh Institute for Psychiatry, Centre of Excellence for 
Neuropsychiatry, Venray, the Netherlands ; Erasmus University Medical Centre, 
Department of Psychiatry, Rotterdam, the Netherlands.
(3)Vincent van Gogh Institute for Psychiatry, Centre for Autism and ADHD, 
Venray, the Netherlands.
(4)Department of Human Genetics, Radboud University Medical Centre, Nijmegen, 
the Netherlands.

The 16p11.2 microdeletion syndrome is characterized by a wide range of 
phenotypic expressions and is frequently associated with developmental delay, 
symptoms from the autism spectrum, epilepsy, congenital anomalies, and obesity. 
These phenotypes are often related to a proximal 16p11.2 deletion of 
approximately 600 kb (BP4-BP5) that includes the SH2B1 gene that is reported to 
be causative for morbid obesity. This more centromeric deletion is most strongly 
related to autism spectrum susceptibility and is functionally different from the 
more distal 16p12.2p11.2 region, which includes the so-called atypical 16p11.2 
BP2-BP3 deletion (approximately 220 kb) presenting with developmental delay, 
behavioral problems and mild facial dysmorphisms. Here, an adult male with a 
long history of maladaptive behaviors is described who was referred for 
diagnostic assessment of his amotivational features. Extensive 
neuropsychological examination demonstrated rigid thinking, anxious beliefs, and 
ideas of reference in the presence of normal intelligence. Microarray analysis 
demonstrated a de novo 970 kb 16p11.2 BP1-BP4 microdeletion that can be regarded 
as explanatory for his behavioral profile. It is concluded that microdeletion 
syndromes are not exclusively related to intellectual disabilities and genetic 
testing is of putative relevance for the understanding of neuropsychiatric and 
neuropsychological phenomena.

DOI: 10.2147/NDT.S58684
PMCID: PMC3971941
PMID: 24707176


604. J Exp Psychol Learn Mem Cogn. 2014 Jul;40(4):987-1001. doi: 10.1037/a0036165. 
Epub 2014 Apr 7.

No evidence for true training and transfer effects after inhibitory control 
training in young healthy adults.

Enge S(1), Behnke A(1), Fleischhauer M(1), Küttler L(1), Kliegel M(2), Strobel 
A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Technische Universitaet Dresden.
(2)Department of Psychology, University of Geneva.

Recent studies reported that training of working memory may improve performance 
in the trained function and beyond. Other executive functions, however, have 
been rarely or not yet systematically examined. The aim of this study was to 
test the effectiveness of inhibitory control (IC) training to produce true 
training-related function improvements in a sample of 122 healthy adults using a 
randomized, double-blind pretest/posttest/follow-up design. Two groups performed 
either adaptive (training group) or nonadaptive (active control) versions of 
go/no-go and stop-signal tasks for 3 weeks. Training gains as well as 
near-transfer to an untrained Stroop task and far-transfer to psychometric fluid 
intelligence were explored. Although the adaptive group could substantially 
improve overall IC task performance after training, no differences to the active 
control group occurred, neither at posttest nor at follow-up testing. A large 
decrease in response latency from pre- to posttest (and from pretest to 4 
months' follow-up testing) was found when the training group was compared to the 
passive control group, which, however, does not sufficiently control for 
possible confounds. Thus, no conclusive evidence was found that this performance 
increase mirrors a true increase in IC function. The fact that training 
improvement was mainly related to response latency may indicate that individuals 
were more focused on performance gains in the prepotent go trials but less on 
the stop trials to meet the requirements of the tasks as well as possible. The 
challenges for response inhibition training studies are extensively discussed.

PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/a0036165
PMID: 24707778 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


605. Law Hum Behav. 2014 Oct;38(5):478-89. doi: 10.1037/lhb0000085. Epub 2014 Apr 7.

The Scharff-technique: eliciting intelligence from human sources.

Oleszkiewicz S(1), Granhag PA(2), Montecinos SC(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology.
(2)University of Gothenburg.

This study is on how to elicit intelligence from human sources. We compared the 
efficacy of two human intelligence gathering techniques: the Scharff-technique 
(conceptualized as four different tactics) and the Direct Approach (a 
combination of open and direct questions). Participants (N = 60) were asked to 
take on the role of "sources" and were given information about a planned 
terrorist attack. They were to reveal part of this information in an upcoming 
interview. Critically, the participants were instructed to strike a balance 
between not revealing too much or too little information. As predicted, the 
participants revealed significantly more, and more precise, new information when 
interviewed with the Scharff-technique (vs. the Direct Approach). Furthermore, 
and as predicted, the participants in the Scharff condition underestimated how 
much new information they revealed whereas the participants in the Direct 
Approach overestimated how much new information they revealed. The study 
provides rather strong support for the Scharff-technique as an effective human 
intelligence gathering technique.

PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/lhb0000085
PMID: 24707914 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


606. Rehabil Psychol. 2014 May;59(2):236-41. doi: 10.1037/a0035916. Epub 2014 Apr 7.

Attitudes toward the sexuality of persons with physical versus psychiatric 
disabilities.

Hasson-Ohayon I(1), Hertz I(1), Vilchinsky N(1), Kravetz S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology.

OBJECTIVE: Research has shown that attitudes toward different disabilities form 
a hierarchy, with observers exhibiting more positive attitudes toward persons 
with physical disabilities than toward persons with psychiatric disabilities. In 
addition, investigations of attitudes toward persons with a disability indicate 
that they are often perceived as asexual. The current study examined whether 
involvement of persons with either a physical or psychiatric disability in a 
sexual relationship moderates the relation between their type of disability and 
attitudes toward them.
METHOD: After reading one of six randomly assigned vignettes, university 
students (N = 195) filled out a semantic differential-based attitude scale (Katz 
& Shurka, 1977; Kravetz, Katz, & Albez, 1994). The six vignettes consisted of a 
male with a physical disability/with a psychiatric disability/without a 
disability, who was either involved/not involved in a sexual relationship.
RESULTS: An interaction between type of disability and involvement in a sexual 
relationship was found for two subscales of the attitudes scale, occupation and 
intelligence. Involvement in a sexual relationship was found to generate more 
positive attitudes when the target person had a physical disability but more 
negative attitudes when he had a psychiatric disability.
CONCLUSIONS: Involvement in a sexual relationship seems to work in favor of 
persons with a physical disability because of the association of such a 
relationship with normality and adaptation. However, attributing such a 
relationship to persons with a psychiatric disability seems to be stigmatic.

(c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/a0035916
PMID: 24708233 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


607. J Exp Child Psychol. 2014 Jul;123:112-28. doi: 10.1016/j.jecp.2014.01.002. Epub 
2014 Apr 5.

The relationship among geometry, working memory, and intelligence in children.

Giofrè D(1), Mammarella IC(2), Cornoldi C(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of General Psychology, University of Padova, 35131 Padova, Italy. 
Electronic address: david.giofre@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Developmental and Social Psychology, University of Padova, 
35131 Padova, Italy.
(3)Department of General Psychology, University of Padova, 35131 Padova, Italy.

Although geometry is one of the main areas of mathematical learning, the 
cognitive processes underlying geometry-related academic achievement have not 
been studied in detail. This study explored the relationship among working 
memory (WM), intelligence (g factor), and geometry in 176 typically developing 
children attending school in their fourth and fifth grades. Structural equation 
modeling showed that approximately 40% of the variance in academic achievement 
and in intuitive geometry (which is assumed to be independent of a person's 
cultural background) was explained by WM and the g factor. After taking 
intelligence and WM into account, intuitive geometry was no longer significantly 
related to academic achievement in geometry. We also found intuitive geometry to 
be closely related to fluid intelligence (as measured by Raven's colored 
progressive matrices) and reasoning ability, whereas academic achievement in 
geometry depended largely on WM. These results were confirmed by a series of 
regressions in which we estimated the contributions of WM, intelligence, and 
intuitive geometry to the unique and shared variance explaining academic 
achievement in geometry. Theoretical and educational implications of the 
relationship among WM, intelligence, and academic achievement in geometry are 
discussed.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jecp.2014.01.002
PMID: 24709286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


608. Arch Clin Neuropsychol. 2014 Jun;29(4):391-402. doi: 10.1093/arclin/acu011. Epub 
2014 Apr 6.

The relationships among premilitary vocational aptitude assessment, traumatic 
brain injury, and postdeployment cognitive functioning in combat veterans.

King PR(1), Donnelly KT(2), Wade M(3), Donnelly JP(4), Dunnam M(5), Warner G(6), 
Kittleson CJ(7), Bradshaw CB(8), Alt M(2).

Author information:
(1)Center for Integrated Healthcare, VA Western New York Healthcare System, 
Buffalo, NY 14215, USA Paul.King2@va.gov.
(2)Behavioral Health Careline, VA Western New York Healthcare System, Buffalo, 
NY 14215, USA.
(3)Center for Integrated Healthcare, Syracuse VA Medical Center, Syracuse, NY 
13210, USA.
(4)Canisius College, Buffalo, NY 14208, USA.
(5)Behavioral Health Careline, Stratton VA Medical Center, Albany, NY 12208, 
USA.
(6)Behavioral Health Careline, Canandaigua VA Medical Center, Canandaigua, NY 
14424, USA.
(7)Behavioral Health Careline, Bath VA Medical Center, Bath, NY 14810, USA.
(8)Behavioral Health Careline, Syracuse VA Medical Center, Syracuse, NY 13210, 
USA.

Traumatic brain injury (TBI) in Iraq and Afghanistan war veterans is frequently 
associated with a variety of complaints, including cognitive problems and 
posttraumatic stress disorder. In this study, the authors explored the 
predictive impact of premilitary cognitive abilities on postdeployment cognitive 
functioning, as mitigated by posttraumatic stress symptoms in a sample of 
veterans with and without history of TBI. Measures included clinical interview, 
neuropsychological tests, the PTSD Checklist-Military Version, and the Armed 
Services Vocational Aptitude Battery. In contrast to history of TBI, premilitary 
abilities and posttraumatic stress symptoms emerged as significant predictors of 
postdeployment cognitive deficits.

Published by Oxford University Press 2014. This work is written by (a) US 
Government employee(s) and is in the public domain in the US.

DOI: 10.1093/arclin/acu011
PMID: 24709385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


609. Resuscitation. 2014 Aug;85(8):1059-64. doi: 10.1016/j.resuscitation.2014.03.307. 
Epub 2014 Apr 4.

Neurocognitive long term follow-up study on drowned children.

Suominen PK(1), Sutinen N(2), Valle S(3), Olkkola KT(4), Lönnqvist T(3).

Author information:
(1)Children's Hospital, Helsinki University Central Hospital, Finland. 
Electronic address: pertti.suominen@hus.fi.
(2)Hyvinkää Hospital, Finland.
(3)Children's Hospital, Helsinki University Central Hospital, Finland.
(4)University of Turku and Turku University Hospital, Finland; Helsinki 
University Central Hospital and Institute of Clinical Medicine, University of 
Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland.

Comment in
    Resuscitation. 2014 Aug;85(8):981-2.

AIM OF THE STUDY: Report cognitive and neurological outcome later in life of 
surviving drowned children who had received CPR either from bystanders or from 
emergency medical services (EMS) units.
METHODS: Forty children who had drowned and admitted to pediatric intensive care 
unit after successful CPR between 1985 and 2007, were eligible for the study. Of 
those 21 gave a consent for neurological and neuropsychological examinations. 
All data are expressed as median (interquartile range). Mann-Whitley U, Wilcoxon 
signed ranks and Chi square tests were used.
RESULTS: The median age of the 21 patients at drowning was 2.4 (1.8, 5.5) years 
and 12.5 (8.6, 19.4) years at the time of neurological and neuropsychological 
examination. The median interval between the drowning accident and examinations 
was 8.1 (5.4, 14.4) years. Twelve patients (57.1%) had either signs of minor 
(6/21) or major neurological dysfunction (6/21). Eight subjects (40.0%) had 
full-scale intelligence quotient (FIQ) of less than 80 (range 20-78). The median 
estimated submersion time of the subjects with normal FIQ was 3.5 (2.0, 7.5)min, 
which was significantly shorter than for those with FIQ<80, 12.5 (5.0, 22.5)min 
(p=0.0013). Cognitive or neurologic deficits were detected in 17 of the 21 
subjects, although 11 of them were reported to have a full recovery at the 
hospital discharge.
CONCLUSIONS: This study showed that 57% of the drowned and resuscitated children 
had neurological dysfunction and 40% a low FIQ. Neurological and 
neuropsychological long term follow-up in drowned children is highly 
recommended.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.resuscitation.2014.03.307
PMID: 24709615 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


610. Exp Brain Res. 2014 Jul;232(7):2381-90. doi: 10.1007/s00221-014-3935-8. Epub 
2014 Apr 8.

Cognitive abilities in siblings of children with autism spectrum disorders.

Gizzonio V(1), Avanzini P, Fabbri-Destro M, Campi C, Rizzolatti G.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Neuroscienze, Sezione di Fisiologia, Università di Parma, Via 
Volturno, 39/E, 43100, Parma, Italy.

The aim of the present study was to assess the cognitive profiles of children 
with autistic spectrum disorder and of their healthy siblings (Siblings). With 
the term cognitive profile, we indicate the relationship extant among the values 
of verbal and performance subtests of the Wechsler Intelligence Scale. The 
conducted statistical analyses indicated that, although siblings showed a normal 
intelligent quotient and did not differ in this aspect from typically developing 
group, their cognitive profile was amazingly similar to that of their relatives 
affected by autism. A k-means clustering analysis on the values of single 
subtests further confirmed this result, showing a clear separation between 
typically developing children on the one side, and autistics and their siblings 
on the other. We suggest that the common cognitive profile observed in autistic 
children and their siblings could represent a marker of liability to autism and, 
thus, a possible intermediate phenotype of this syndrome.

DOI: 10.1007/s00221-014-3935-8
PMID: 24710667 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


611. IEEE Trans Cybern. 2014 Dec;44(12):2585-99. doi: 10.1109/TCYB.2014.2311014. Epub 
2014 Mar 31.

Generalized hidden-mapping ridge regression, knowledge-leveraged inductive 
transfer learning for neural networks, fuzzy systems and kernel methods.

Deng Z, Choi KS, Jiang Y, Wang S.

Inductive transfer learning has attracted increasing attention for the training 
of effective model in the target domain by leveraging the information in the 
source domain. However, most transfer learning methods are developed for a 
specific model, such as the commonly used support vector machine, which makes 
the methods applicable only to the adopted models. In this regard, the 
generalized hidden-mapping ridge regression (GHRR) method is introduced in order 
to train various types of classical intelligence models, including neural 
networks, fuzzy logical systems and kernel methods. Furthermore, the 
knowledge-leverage based transfer learning mechanism is integrated with GHRR to 
realize the inductive transfer learning method called transfer GHRR (TGHRR). 
Since the information from the induced knowledge is much clearer and more 
concise than that from the data in the source domain, it is more convenient to 
control and balance the similarity and difference of data distributions between 
the source and target domains. The proposed GHRR and TGHRR algorithms have been 
evaluated experimentally by performing regression and classification on 
synthetic and real world datasets. The results demonstrate that the performance 
of TGHRR is competitive with or even superior to existing state-of-the-art 
inductive transfer learning algorithms.

DOI: 10.1109/TCYB.2014.2311014
PMID: 24710838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


612. ScientificWorldJournal. 2014 Feb 23;2014:872929. doi: 10.1155/2014/872929. 
eCollection 2014.

A preliminary investigation of user perception and behavioral intention for 
different review types: customers and designers perspective.

Qazi A(1), Raj RG(1), Tahir M(2), Waheed M(1), Khan SU(1), Abraham A(3).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology, University of Malaya, 
50603 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
(2)Faculty of Information Science and Technology, COMSATS Institute of 
Information Technology (CIIT), Park Road, Islamabad 44000, Pakistan ; Faculty of 
Computing and Information Technology, King Abdulaziz University, North Jeddah 
Branch, Jeddah 21589, Saudi Arabia.
(3)Machine Intelligence Research Labs, Scientific Network for Innovation and 
Research Excellence, Auburn, WA 98071, USA.

Erratum in
    ScientificWorldJournal. 2015;2015:258150. Waheed, Mahwish [corrected to 
Waheed, Mehwish].

Existing opinion mining studies have focused on and explored only two types of 
reviews, that is, regular and comparative. There is a visible gap in determining 
the useful review types from customers and designers perspective. Based on 
Technology Acceptance Model (TAM) and statistical measures we examine users' 
perception about different review types and its effects in terms of behavioral 
intention towards using online review system. By using sample of users (N = 400) 
and designers (N = 106), current research work studies three review types, A 
(regular), B (comparative), and C (suggestive), which are related to perceived 
usefulness, perceived ease of use, and behavioral intention. The study reveals 
that positive perception of the use of suggestive reviews improves users' 
decision making in business intelligence. The results also depict that type C 
(suggestive reviews) could be considered a new useful review type in addition to 
other types, A and B.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/872929
PMCID: PMC3953399
PMID: 24711739 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


613. Front Psychol. 2014 Mar 21;5:239. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.00239. eCollection 
2014.

Working memory capacity and fluid abilities: the more difficult the item, the 
more more is better.

Little DR(1), Lewandowsky S(2), Craig S(3).

Author information:
(1)Melbourne School of Psychological Sciences, The University of Melbourne 
Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(2)School of Experimental Psychology, University of Bristol Bristol, UK ; School 
of Psychology, The University of Western Australia Crawley, WA, Australia.
(3)School of Psychology, The University of Western Australia Crawley, WA, 
Australia.

The relationship between fluid intelligence and working memory is of fundamental 
importance to understanding how capacity-limited structures such as working 
memory interact with inference abilities to determine intelligent behavior. 
Recent evidence has suggested that the relationship between a fluid abilities 
test, Raven's Progressive Matrices, and working memory capacity (WMC) may be 
invariant across difficulty levels of the Raven's items. We show that this 
invariance can only be observed if the overall correlation between Raven's and 
WMC is low. Simulations of Raven's performance revealed that as the overall 
correlation between Raven's and WMC increases, the item-wise point bi-serial 
correlations involving WMC are no longer constant but increase considerably with 
item difficulty. The simulation results were confirmed by two studies that used 
a composite measure of WMC, which yielded a higher correlation between WMC and 
Raven's than reported in previous studies. As expected, with the higher overall 
correlation, there was a significant positive relationship between Raven's item 
difficulty and the extent of the item-wise correlation with WMC.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.00239
PMCID: PMC3968765
PMID: 24711798


614. Int J Nurs Pract. 2015 Dec;21(6):876-81. doi: 10.1111/ijn.12311. Epub 2014 Apr 
8.

The relationship between characteristics of nursing performance and years of 
experience in nurses with high emotional intelligence.

Fujino Y(1), Tanaka M(2), Yonemitsu Y(2), Kawamoto R(3).

Author information:
(1)Fukuoka Jogakuin Nursing College, Fukuoka, Japan.
(2)R&D Laboratory for Innovative Biotherapeutics, Graduate School of 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Kyushu University, Fukuoka, Japan.
(3)Japanese Nursing Association, Tokyo, Japan.

The aim of this study was to elucidate characteristics of nursing performance 
among nurses with high emotional intelligence (EI) and examine the influence of 
years of experience on nursing performance and EI. A survey, including The 
Emotional Intelligence Scale and the Six-Dimension Scale of Nursing Performance, 
was administered to 1395 nurses working at general hospitals in Japan from 
November 2010 to March 2011. We received 1045 responses (76% response rate). 
There was a significant positive correlation between EI and nursing performance. 
Nurses with high EI reported more professional development activities, 
suggesting that they continue learning, attain licenses and actively improve 
their nursing skills. High-performing nurses had high situational abilities and 
showed improved nursing performance with experience. However, nurses with low 
situational abilities demonstrated no improvement in nursing performance related 
to experience. EI involves skills that can be acquired from training. Therefore, 
educational programmes to improve EI could improve nursing performance.

© 2014 Wiley Publishing Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ijn.12311
PMID: 24712344 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


615. Med Educ. 2014 May;48(5):468-78. doi: 10.1111/medu.12406.

Emotional intelligence in medical education: a critical review.

Cherry MG(1), Fletcher I, O'Sullivan H, Dornan T.

Author information:
(1)Division of Clinical Psychology, Institute of Psychology, Health and Society, 
University of Liverpool, Liverpool, UK.

Comment in
    Med Educ. 2014 May;48(5):456-8.
    Med Educ. 2014 May;48(5):458-60.

CONTEXT: Emotional intelligence (EI) is a term used to describe people's 
awareness of, and ability to respond to, emotions in themselves and other 
people. There is increasing research evidence that doctors' EI influences their 
ability to deliver safe and compassionate health care, a particularly pertinent 
issue in the current health care climate.
OBJECTIVES: This review set out to examine the value of EI as a theoretical 
platform on which to base selection for medicine, communication skills education 
and professionalism.
METHODS: We conducted a critical review with the aim of answering questions that 
clinical educators wishing to increase the focus on emotions in their curriculum 
might ask.
RESULTS: Although EI seems, intuitively, to be a construct that is relevant to 
educating safe and compassionate doctors, important questions about it remain to 
be answered. Research to date has not established whether EI is a trait, a 
learned ability or a combination of the two. Furthermore, there are 
methodological difficulties associated with measuring EI in a medical arena. If, 
as has been suggested, EI were to be used to select for medical school, there 
would be a real risk of including and excluding the wrong people.
CONCLUSIONS: Emotional intelligence-based education may be able to contribute to 
the teaching of professionalism and communication skills in medicine, but 
further research is needed before its wholesale adoption in any curriculum can 
be recommended.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/medu.12406
PMID: 24712932 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


616. Int J Neuropsychopharmacol. 2014 Aug;17(8):1159-65. doi: 
10.1017/S1461145714000376. Epub 2014 Apr 8.

Serotonergic, noradrenergic and dopaminergic markers are related to cognitive 
function in adults with 22q11 deletion syndrome.

Evers LJ(1), Curfs LM(2), Bakker JA(3), Boot E(4), da Silva Alves F(5), Abeling 
N(6), Bierau J(3), Drukker M(7), van Amelsvoort TA(7).

Author information:
(1)Koraalgroup, MFCG,Heel,The Netherlands.
(2)Governor Kremers Centre, Maastricht University Medical Centre,Maastricht,The 
Netherlands.
(3)Department Clinical Genetics,Maastricht University Medical 
Centre,Maastricht,The Netherlands.
(4)Ipse de Bruggen, Centre for People with intellectual 
disability,Zwammerdam,The Netherlands.
(5)Department of Psychiatry,Academic Medical Centre, University of 
Amsterdam,Amsterdam,The Netherlands.
(6)Department of Genetic Metabolic Disorders,AMC,Amsterdam,The Netherlands.
(7)Department of Psychiatry and Psychology,School for Mental Health and 
Neuroscience MHeNS, Maastricht University Medical Centre,Maastricht,The 
Netherlands.

Patients with 22q11 deletion syndrome (22q11DS) have a high prevalence of 
psychiatric disorders and intellectual disability. At present the neurobiology 
underlying psychopathology in 22q11DS is still not understood. In the present 
study, we analyzed urinary serotonergic, dopaminergic and noradrenergic markers 
in 67 adults with 22q11DS. Levels of serotonin and the catecholamine metabolite 
homovanillic acid were significantly lower in the 22q11DS subjects compared to 
healthy controls. Within the 22q11DS group, levels of dopamine, homovanillic 
acid, norepinephrine, vanillyl mandelic acid and serotonin positively correlated 
with Full Scale Intelligence Quotient scores. Our results suggest that cognitive 
deficits in 22q11DS are associated with abnormal function of several 
neurotransmitters.

DOI: 10.1017/S1461145714000376
PMID: 24713114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


617. Am J Med Genet A. 2014 Jul;164A(7):1826-9. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.a.36542. Epub 2014 
Apr 8.

Haploinsufficiency of HDAC4 does not cause intellectual disability in all 
affected individuals.

Wheeler PG(1), Huang D, Dai Z.

Author information:
(1)Divison of Genetics, Nemours Children's Clinic, Orlando, Florida.

Haploinsufficiency of HDAC4 gene has been reported to result in 
brachydactyly-"mental retardation" syndrome (BDMR), a condition with significant 
intellectual impairment, brachydactyly type E, and typical facial features. 
Presented here are three individuals with haploinsufficiency of HDAC4 who have 
brachydactyly type E, non-dysmorphic facial features, and normal intelligence. 
This is in contradistinction to previous reports that haploinsufficiency of 
HDAC4 is sufficient to cause BDMR.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.a.36542
PMID: 24715439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


618. Am J Med Genet A. 2014 Jun;164A(6):1464-9. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.a.36483. Epub 2014 
Apr 8.

Expanding the phenotypic profile of boys with 47, XXY: the impact of familial 
learning disabilities.

Samango-Sprouse CA(1), Stapleton EJ, Mitchell FL, Sadeghin T, Donahue TP, 
Gropman AL.

Author information:
(1)George Washington University of the Health Sciences, Washington, District of 
Columbia; Neurodevelopmental Diagnostic Center for Young Children, 
Davidsonville, Maryland; The Focus Foundation, Davidsonville, Maryland.

The aim of the study was to examine the impact of familial learning disabilities 
(FLD) on the phenotypic profile of 47, XXY males and the possibility that 47, 
XXY males with more severe cognitive deficits may be partially a consequence of 
familial dyslexia/reading disorder. We wondered if FLD could pose an additional 
risk for complex neurodevelopmental differences in 47, XXY. The 
neurodevelopmental profile of males with 47, XXY has been characterized by 
developmental dyspraxia, language-based learning disorders, executive 
dysfunction, reading, and attentional deficits. One hundred eighteen boys with 
47, XXY diagnosed prenatally who did not receive early hormonal treatment were 
divided into two groups based on positive histories of FLD and given 
comprehensive neurodevelopmental evaluations between 36 and 108 months. The 
assessments included intelligence (nonverbal and verbal), neuromotor (fine and 
gross), speech, and language. The group with FLD performed significantly lower 
in multiple neurodevelopmental domains of the Wechsler of VIQ P = 0.015, FSIQ P 
= 0.0005, the Brief IQ P = 0.0525 of the Leiter, in Auditory Comprehension P = 
0.0505, Expressive Communication P = 0.0055, and neuromotor domains of Manual 
Coordination P = 0.0032, Fine Motor Control P = 0.0378, and Motor Coordination P 
= 0.008. Our study demonstrates the influence of FLD on neurodevelopment and 
expands the phenotypic profile of 47, XXY, suggesting some neurodevelopmental 
variability is attributable to other factors than the additional X. FLD may 
increase the vulnerability of the 47, XXY children and anticipatory guidance 
should be provided to families.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.a.36483
PMID: 24715716 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


619. Appl Neuropsychol Child. 2014;3(2):83-93. doi: 10.1080/21622965.2012.700531. 
Epub 2012 Sep 24.

Validity of the RIAS for assessing children with traumatic brain injury: 
sensitivity to TBI and comparability to the WISC-III and WISC-IV.

Allen DN(1), Stolberg PC, Thaler NS, Sutton G, Mayfield J.

Author information:
(1)a Department of Psychology , University of Nevada , Las Vegas , Nevada.

Intelligence tests are commonly administered to children following 
moderate-to-severe traumatic brain injury (TBI). The Reynolds Intellectual 
Assessment Scales (RIAS) is a recently developed measure of intellectual ability 
that has a number of appealing features for assessing individuals with brain 
damage, but as yet has little validity information when applied to children with 
TBI or other forms of brain injury. It is therefore unclear whether RIAS scores 
are sensitive to brain injury and how they compare to older more 
well-established tests such as the Wechsler scales. The current article reports 
two studies that examine these matters in youth with TBI. The first study 
examined sensitivity of the RIAS to TBI in 110 children. Results indicated the 
TBI sample performed significantly worse compared with the standardization 
sample on all RIAS index scores. The second study included 102 children who were 
administered either the RIAS, Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children-Third 
Edition (WISC-III), or WISC-Fourth Edition (WISC-IV; 34 children in each group). 
Comparisons among the RIAS, WISC-III, and WISC-IV groups indicated no 
significant differences among the measures on verbal, nonverbal, and Composite 
Index/Full-Scale IQs. Results provide support for the sensitivity of the RIAS to 
TBI in children and also suggest that IQs produced by the RIAS, WISC-III, and 
WISC-IV do not significantly vary from one test to the other, which is 
particularly true of the verbal and Composite Index/Full-Scale IQs.

DOI: 10.1080/21622965.2012.700531
PMID: 24716867 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


620. Appl Neuropsychol Child. 2014;3(2):94-102. doi: 10.1080/21622965.2012.704185. 
Epub 2012 Oct 26.

Is executive function specifically impaired in children with neurofibromatosis 
type 1? A neuropsychological investigation of cognitive flexibility.

Roy A(1), Barbarot S, Roulin JL, Charbonnier V, Fasotti L, Stalder JF, Le Gall 
D.

Author information:
(1)a Psychology Laboratory, LUNAM, Angers University , Angers , France.

Our study investigated spontaneous versus reactive cognitive flexibility in 
children with neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) and their comorbidity with 
attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Thirty children with NF1 aged 7 
to 12 years old were compared to 60 healthy controls matched by age, gender, and 
parental education. On the basis of Eslinger and Grattan's definition ( 1993 ), 
spontaneous shifting was assessed using fluency tests, whereas reactive 
flexibility was measured by a child adaptation of the Modified Card-Sorting Test 
and the Brixton Test. IQ and basic skills were taken into account as confounding 
variables that might influence executive measures. NF1 children performed below 
the level of healthy children on both reactive flexibility tasks, even when 
intelligence and basic skills were partialled out, but ADHD symptomatology was 
not found to adversely affect the performance of patients. Our findings support 
the hypothesis of a specific executive impairment in NF1, uncovering a 
dissociation between (impaired) reactive flexibility and (preserved) spontaneous 
shifting, with no impact of ADHD on executive performance.

DOI: 10.1080/21622965.2012.704185
PMID: 24716868 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


621. Appl Neuropsychol Child. 2014;3(2):135-44. doi: 10.1080/21622965.2012.737760. 
Epub 2012 Nov 27.

Higher-order factor structures for the WISC-IV: implications for 
neuropsychological test interpretation.

Decker SL(1), Englund JA, Roberts AM.

Author information:
(1)a Department of Psychology , University of South Carolina , Columbia , South 
Carolina.

Factor-analytic studies support a hierarchical four-factor model for the 
Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children-Fourth Edition (WISC-IV) with a 
prominent general, third-order factor. However, there is substantial 
disagreement on which type of higher-order model best fits the data and how 
different models should guide test interpretation in clinical practice, with 
many studies concluding interpretation should primarily be focused on general 
indicators of intelligence. We performed a series of confirmatory factor 
analyses with the WISC-IV standardization sample (N = 2,200, ages 6-16 years) to 
examine model fit and reexamined models used to support test interpretation at 
the general level. Consistent with previous research, bifactor models were 
difficult to identify; however, compared with bifactor and hierarchical models, 
the correlated factors model with no general higher-order factor provided the 
best fit to the data. Results from this study support the basic four-factor 
model specified in the WISC-IV technical manual, with test interpretation 
primarily focused at the factor level, rather than the general level suggested 
in previous studies.

DOI: 10.1080/21622965.2012.737760
PMID: 24716872 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


622. PLoS One. 2014 Apr 10;9(4):e94521. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0094521. 
eCollection 2014.

Self-esteem in hearing-impaired children: the influence of communication, 
education, and audiological characteristics.

Theunissen SC(1), Rieffe C(2), Netten AP(1), Briaire JJ(1), Soede W(1), 
Kouwenberg M(3), Frijns JH(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology and Head & Neck Surgery, Leiden University 
Medical Center, Leiden, The Netherlands.
(2)Department of Developmental Psychology, Leiden University, Leiden, The 
Netherlands; Dutch Foundation for the Deaf and Hard of Hearing Child, Amsterdam, 
The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Developmental Psychology, Leiden University, Leiden, The 
Netherlands.
(4)Department of Otorhinolaryngology and Head & Neck Surgery, Leiden University 
Medical Center, Leiden, The Netherlands; Leiden Institute for Brain and 
Cognition, Leiden, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: Sufficient self-esteem is extremely important for psychosocial 
functioning. It is hypothesized that hearing-impaired (HI) children have lower 
levels of self-esteem, because, among other things, they frequently experience 
lower language and communication skills. Therefore, the aim of this study was to 
compare HI children's self-esteem across different domains with those of normal 
hearing (NH) children and to investigate the influence of communication, type of 
education, and audiological characteristics.
METHODS: This large (N = 252) retrospective, multicenter study consisted of two 
age- and gender-matched groups: 123 HI children and 129 NH controls (mean age 
 = 11.8 years). Self-reports were used to measure self-esteem across four 
domains: perceived social acceptance by peers, perceived parental attention, 
perceived physical appearance, and global self-esteem.
RESULTS: HI children experienced lower levels of self-esteem regarding peers and 
parents than NH controls. Particularly HI children who attended special 
education for the deaf were at risk, even after correcting for their language 
development and intelligence. Yet, levels of global self-esteem and self-esteem 
involving physical appearance in HI children equalled those of NH controls. 
Furthermore, younger age at implantation and longer duration of having cochlear 
implants (CIs) were related to higher levels of self-esteem.
CONCLUSION: HI children experience lower levels of self-esteem in the social 
domains. Yet, due to the heterogeneity of the HI population, there is high 
variability in levels of self-esteem.
DISCUSSION: Clinicians must always be aware of the risk and protective factors 
related to self-esteem in order to help individual patients reach their full 
potential.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0094521
PMCID: PMC3983202
PMID: 24722329 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


623. Front Neuroanat. 2014 Mar 27;8:15. doi: 10.3389/fnana.2014.00015. eCollection 
2014.

Evolution of the human brain: when bigger is better.

Hofman MA(1).

Author information:
(1)Netherlands Institute for Neuroscience, Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and 
Sciences Amsterdam, Netherlands.

Comparative studies of the brain in mammals suggest that there are general 
architectural principles governing its growth and evolutionary development. We 
are beginning to understand the geometric, biophysical and energy constraints 
that have governed the evolution and functional organization of the brain and 
its underlying neuronal network. The object of this review is to present current 
perspectives on primate brain evolution, especially in humans, and to examine 
some hypothetical organizing principles that underlie the brain's complex 
organization. Some of the design principles and operational modes that underlie 
the information processing capacity of the cerebral cortex in primates will be 
explored. It is shown that the development of the cortex coordinates folding 
with connectivity in a way that produces smaller and faster brains, then 
otherwise would have been possible. In view of the central importance placed on 
brain evolution in explaining the success of our own species, one may wonder 
whether there are physical limits that constrain its processing power and 
evolutionary potential. It will be argued that at a brain size of about 3500 
cm(3), corresponding to a brain volume two to three times that of modern man, 
the brain seems to reach its maximum processing capacity. The larger the brain 
grows beyond this critical size, the less efficient it will become, thus 
limiting any improvement in cognitive power.

DOI: 10.3389/fnana.2014.00015
PMCID: PMC3973910
PMID: 24723857


624. Front Hum Neurosci. 2014 Mar 26;8:183. doi: 10.3389/fnhum.2014.00183. 
eCollection 2014.

Videogame interventions and spatial ability interactions.

Redick TS(1), Webster SB(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychological Sciences, Purdue University West Lafayette, IN, 
USA.

Numerous research studies have been conducted on the use of videogames as tools 
to improve one's cognitive abilities. While meta-analyses and qualitative 
reviews have provided evidence that some aspects of cognition such as spatial 
imagery are modified after exposure to videogames, other evidence has shown that 
matrix reasoning measures of fluid intelligence do not show evidence of transfer 
from videogame training. In the current work, we investigate the available 
evidence for transfer specifically to nonverbal intelligence and spatial ability 
measures, given recent research that these abilities may be most sensitive to 
training on cognitive and working memory tasks. Accordingly, we highlight a few 
studies that on the surface provide evidence for transfer to spatial abilities, 
but a closer look at the pattern of data does not reveal a clean interpretation 
of the results. We discuss the implications of these results in relation to 
research design and statistical analysis practices.

DOI: 10.3389/fnhum.2014.00183
PMCID: PMC3972455
PMID: 24723880


625. Front Microbiol. 2014 Mar 25;5:101. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2014.00101. eCollection 
2014.

Bacterial computing: a form of natural computing and its applications.

Lahoz-Beltra R(1), Navarro J(2), Marijuán PC(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Applied Mathematics (Biomathematics), Faculty of Biological 
Sciences, Complutense University of Madrid Madrid, Spain.
(2)Instituto Aragonés de Ciencias de la Salud Zaragoza, Spain.

The capability to establish adaptive relationships with the environment is an 
essential characteristic of living cells. Both bacterial computing and bacterial 
intelligence are two general traits manifested along adaptive behaviors that 
respond to surrounding environmental conditions. These two traits have generated 
a variety of theoretical and applied approaches. Since the different systems of 
bacterial signaling and the different ways of genetic change are better known 
and more carefully explored, the whole adaptive possibilities of bacteria may be 
studied under new angles. For instance, there appear instances of molecular 
"learning" along the mechanisms of evolution. More in concrete, and looking 
specifically at the time dimension, the bacterial mechanisms of learning and 
evolution appear as two different and related mechanisms for adaptation to the 
environment; in somatic time the former and in evolutionary time the latter. In 
the present chapter it will be reviewed the possible application of both kinds 
of mechanisms to prokaryotic molecular computing schemes as well as to the 
solution of real world problems.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2014.00101
PMCID: PMC3971165
PMID: 24723912


626. Epilepsia. 2014 Aug;55(8):e80-4. doi: 10.1111/epi.12623. Epub 2014 Apr 11.

The cognitive profile of occipital lobe epilepsy and the selective association 
of left temporal lobe hypometabolism with verbal memory impairment.

Knopman AA(1), Wong CH, Stevenson RJ, Homewood J, Mohamed A, Somerville E, Eberl 
S, Wen L, Fulham M, Bleasel AF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Macquarie University, Sydney, New South Wales, 
Australia; Department of Medical Psychology, Westmead Hospital, Sydney, New 
South Wales, Australia.

We investigated the cognitive profile of structural occipital lobe epilepsy 
(OLE) and whether verbal memory impairment is selectively associated with left 
temporal lobe hypometabolism on [18F]-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission 
tomography (FDG-PET). Nine patients with OLE, ages 8-29 years, completed 
presurgical neuropsychological assessment. Composite measures were calculated 
for intelligence quotient (IQ), speed, attention, verbal memory, nonverbal 
memory, and executive functioning. In addition, the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test 
(WCST) was used as a specific measure of frontal lobe functioning. Presurgical 
FDG-PET was analyzed with statistical parametric mapping in 8 patients relative 
to 16 healthy volunteers. Mild impairments were evident for IQ, speed, 
attention, and executive functioning. Four patients demonstrated moderate or 
severe verbal memory impairment. Temporal lobe hypometabolism was found in seven 
of eight patients. Poorer verbal memory was associated with left temporal lobe 
hypometabolism (p = 0.002), which was stronger (p = 0.03 and p = 0.005, 
respectively) than the association of left temporal lobe hypometabolism with 
executive functioning or with performance on the WCST. OLE is associated with 
widespread cognitive comorbidity, suggesting cortical dysfunction beyond the 
occipital lobe. Verbal memory impairment is selectively associated with left 
temporal lobe hypometabolism in OLE, supporting a link between 
neuropsychological dysfunction and remote hypometabolism in focal epilepsy.

Wiley Periodicals, Inc. © 2014 International League Against Epilepsy.

DOI: 10.1111/epi.12623
PMID: 24725141 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


627. Dev Neurorehabil. 2016;19(1):26-30. doi: 10.3109/17518423.2014.893265. Epub 2014 
Apr 11.

Psychometric qualities of a tetrad WAIS-III short form for use in individuals 
with mild to borderline intellectual disability.

van Duijvenbode N(1), Didden R(1)(2), van den Hazel T(2), Engels RC(1).

Author information:
(1)a Behavioural Science Institute, Radboud University Nijmegen , Nijmegen , The 
Netherlands and.
(2)b Trajectum , Zwolle , The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the reliability and validity of a Wechsler Abbreviated 
Scale of Intelligence-based Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale - third edition 
(WAIS-III) short form (SF) in a sample of individuals with mild to borderline 
intellectual disability (MBID) (N = 117; M(IQ) = 71.34; SD(IQ) = 8.00, range: 
52-85).
METHODS: A full WAIS-III was administered as a standard procedure in the 
diagnostic process.
RESULTS: The results indicate an excellent reliability (r = 0.96) and a strong, 
positive correlation with the full WAIS-III (r = 0.89). The SF correctly 
identified ID in general and the correct IQ category more specifically in the 
majority of cases (97.4% and 86.3% of cases, respectively). In addition, 82.1% 
of the full scale IQ (FSIQ) estimates fell within the 95% confidence interval of 
the original score.
CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that the SF is a reliable and valid measure to estimate 
FSIQ. It can be used in clinical and research settings when global estimates of 
intelligence are sufficient.

DOI: 10.3109/17518423.2014.893265
PMID: 24725162 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


628. J Child Adolesc Psychopharmacol. 2014 Apr;24(3):149-57. doi: 
10.1089/cap.2013.0086.

Phonemic verbal fluency is associated with pediatric anxiety disorders: evidence 
from a community study.

Toazza R(1), Salum GA, Flores SM, Jarros RB, Pine DS, de Salles JF, Manfro GG.

Author information:
(1)1 Anxiety Disorders Program for Child and Adolescent Psychiatry (PROTAIA), 
Department of Developmental and Personality Psychology, Institute of Psychology, 
Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul (UFRGS) , Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil .

BACKGROUND: Anxiety disorders typically begin in childhood and adolescence and 
predict risk for many problems throughout life. Although some neuropsychological 
correlates have been described, more research is needed, particularly in 
adolescents. This study compares neurocognitive characteristics of anxious 
adolescents with and without comorbidity to externalizing disorders to those of 
typically developing comparison (TDC) adolescents and adolescents with 
externalizing disorders alone.
METHODS: The study included 57 adolescents 12-18 years of age (TDC, n=23; 
anxiety, n=16; externalizing, n=11; comorbid, n=7). We used a neuropsychological 
battery to assess eight domains: Orientation, attention, visual perception, 
memory, arithmetic, language, praxis, and executive function.
RESULTS: Multivariate analysis of variance revealed a main effect of group in 
the neurocognitive domains evaluated (F8,48=2.32, p=0.034, ηp(2)=0.279). 
Post-hoc analysis revealed that executive functions score differed among groups, 
specifically in the task of verbal fluency (F[df=3]=5.01, p=0.004, ηp(2)=0.221), 
with both the anxious groups (anxiety and comorbid) presenting a lower score 
than the TDC and externalizing groups. This effect was independent of age, 
intelligence, and levels of education.
CONCLUSIONS: Verbal fluency is specifically impaired in adolescents with anxiety 
disorders. This extends results from neuroimaging research implicating 
prefrontal areas in pediatric anxiety disorder neurobiology, and has potential 
implications to new therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1089/cap.2013.0086
PMID: 24725199 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


629. Res Dev Disabil. 2014 Jul;35(7):1674-85. doi: 10.1016/j.ridd.2014.03.025. Epub 
2014 Apr 13.

Predictors of early literacy skills in children with intellectual disabilities: 
a clinical perspective.

van Tilborg A(1), Segers E(2), van Balkom H(3), Verhoeven L(2).

Author information:
(1)Behavioural Science Institute, Radboud University Nijmegen, The Netherlands. 
Electronic address: a.vantilborg@pwo.ru.nl.
(2)Behavioural Science Institute, Radboud University Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
(3)Behavioural Science Institute, Radboud University Nijmegen, The Netherlands; 
Royal Kentalis, Sint-Michielsgestel, The Netherlands.

The present study investigated the linguistic and cognitive predictors of early 
literacy in 17 children with intellectual disabilities (ID) (mean age: 7; 6 
years) compared to 24 children with normal language acquisition (NLA) (mean age: 
6; 0 years), who were all in the so-called partial alphabetic phase of reading 
(Ehri, 2005). In each group, children's performances in early literacy skills 
(phonological awareness, letter knowledge, and word decoding) were assessed, as 
well as their achievement in linguistic and cognitive measures associated to 
these skills. The results showed that, notwithstanding the fact that there were 
no differences in word decoding, children with ID lagged behind on all predictor 
measures relevant to early literacy skills compared to children with NLA. 
Moreover, whereas children with NLA showed a regular predictive pathway of early 
literacy skills, children with ID showed a deviant pattern, in which nonverbal 
intelligence and rhythmic skills proved to be of major importance. Also letter 
knowledge appeared to be involved in their early literacy processing. It can be 
tentatively concluded that in the ID group, children's level of nonverbal 
intellectual abilities in combination with rhythmic ability proves pivotal in 
the development of their early literacy skills.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ridd.2014.03.025
PMID: 24725479 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


630. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2014 May 1;89(1):67-74. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijrobp.2014.01.056.

Survival and neurocognitive outcomes after cranial or craniospinal irradiation 
plus total-body irradiation before stem cell transplantation in pediatric 
leukemia patients with central nervous system involvement.

Hiniker SM(1), Agarwal R(2), Modlin LA(1), Gray CC(3), Harris JP(1), Million 
L(1), Kiamanesh EF(4), Donaldson SS(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Stanford University, Stanford, California.
(2)Section of Stem Cell Transplantation, Department of Pediatrics, Stanford 
University, Stanford, California.
(3)Division of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Department of Psychiatry, 
Stanford University, Stanford, California.
(4)Cancer Clinical Trials Office, Stanford Cancer Institute, Stanford 
University, Stanford, California.
(5)Department of Radiation Oncology, Stanford University, Stanford, California. 
Electronic address: sarah2@stanford.edu.

PURPOSE: To evaluate survival and neurocognitive outcomes in pediatric acute 
lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) patients with central nervous system (CNS) 
involvement treated according to an institutional protocol with stem cell 
transplantation (SCT) and a component of craniospinal irradiation (CSI) in 
addition to total-body irradiation (TBI) as preparative regimen.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: Forty-one pediatric ALL patients underwent SCT with TBI 
and received additional cranial irradiation or CSI because of CNS leukemic 
involvement. Prospective neurocognitive testing was performed before and after 
SCT in a subset of patients. Cox regression models were used to determine 
associations of patient and disease characteristics and treatment methods with 
outcomes.
RESULTS: All patients received a cranial radiation boost; median total cranial 
dose was 24 Gy. Eighteen patients (44%) received a spinal boost; median total 
spinal dose for these patients was 18 Gy. Five-year disease-free survival (DFS) 
for all patients was 67%. Those receiving CSI had a trend toward superior DFS 
compared with those receiving a cranial boost alone (hazard ratio 3.23, P=.14). 
Patients with isolated CNS disease before SCT had a trend toward superior DFS 
(hazard ratio 3.64, P=.11, 5-year DFS 74%) compared with those with combined CNS 
and bone marrow disease (5-year DFS 59%). Neurocognitive testing revealed a mean 
post-SCT overall intelligence quotient of 103.7 at 4.4 years. Relative 
deficiencies in processing speed and/or working memory were noted in 6 of 16 
tested patients (38%). Pre- and post-SCT neurocognitive testing revealed no 
significant change in intelligence quotient (mean increase +4.7 points). At a 
mean of 12.5 years after transplant, 11 of 13 long-term survivors (85%) had 
completed at least some coursework at a 2- or 4-year college.
CONCLUSION: The addition of CSI to TBI before SCT in pediatric ALL with CNS 
involvement is effective and well-tolerated. Craniospinal irradiation plus TBI 
is worthy of further protocol investigation in children with CNS leukemia.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijrobp.2014.01.056
PMID: 24725690 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


631. J Biomed Inform. 2014 Oct;51:35-40. doi: 10.1016/j.jbi.2014.04.001. Epub 2014 
Apr 12.

Predicting patient acuity from electronic patient records.

Kontio E(1), Airola A(2), Pahikkala T(2), Lundgren-Laine H(3), Junttila K(4), 
Korvenranta H(5), Salakoski T(2), Salanterä S(3).

Author information:
(1)University of Turku, Department of Nursing Science, Finland; Turku University 
of Applied Sciences, Finland. Electronic address: elina.kontio@turkuamk.fi.
(2)University of Turku, Department of Information Technology, Finland.
(3)University of Turku, Department of Nursing Science, Finland; Turku University 
Hospital, Finland.
(4)Hospital District of Helsinki and Uusimaa, Finland.
(5)Turku University Hospital, Finland.

BACKGROUND: The ability to predict acuity (patients' care needs), would provide 
a powerful tool for health care managers to allocate resources. Such estimations 
and predictions for the care process can be produced from the vast amounts of 
healthcare data using information technology and computational intelligence 
techniques. Tactical decision-making and resource allocation may also be 
supported with different mathematical optimization models.
METHODS: This study was conducted with a data set comprising electronic nursing 
narratives and the associated Oulu Patient Classification (OPCq) acuity. A 
mathematical model for the automated assignment of patient acuity scores was 
utilized and evaluated with the pre-processed data from 23,528 electronic 
patient records. The methods to predict patient's acuity were based on 
linguistic pre-processing, vector-space text modeling, and regularized 
least-squares regression.
RESULTS: The experimental results show that it is possible to obtain accurate 
predictions about patient acuity scores for the coming day based on the assigned 
scores and nursing notes from the previous day. Making same-day predictions 
leads to even better results, as access to the nursing notes for the same day 
boosts the predictive performance. Furthermore, textual nursing notes allow for 
more accurate predictions than previous acuity scores. The best results are 
achieved by combining both of these information sources. The developed model 
achieves a concordance index of 0.821 when predicting the patient acuity scores 
for the following day, given the scores and text recorded on the previous day.
CONCLUSIONS: By applying language technology to electronic patient documents it 
is possible to accurately predict the value of the acuity scores of the coming 
day based on the previous daýs assigned scores and nursing notes.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbi.2014.04.001
PMID: 24726853 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


632. J Exp Child Psychol. 2014 Aug;124:1-17. doi: 10.1016/j.jecp.2014.01.015. Epub 
2014 Apr 12.

Children's skepticism: developmental and individual differences in children's 
ability to detect and explain distorted claims.

Mills CM(1), Elashi FB(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Behavioral and Brain Sciences, University of Texas at Dallas, 
Richardson, TX 75080, USA. Electronic address: candice.mills@utdallas.edu.
(2)Educational Studies, Arab Open University, Amman 11953, Jordan.

The current study examined some key developmental and individual differences in 
how elementary school-aged children evaluate sources of information. A sample of 
130 children ages 6 to 9 years participated in a task designed to measure 
children's understanding of ways that claims can be distorted (i.e., biased 
decisions, skewed self-reports, and misleading persuasive claims). Children also 
completed several individual difference measures, including a brief intelligence 
task and an advanced social cognition measure (interpretive theory of mind). 
Overall, older children were less trusting and better than younger children at 
explaining the reasons to doubt sources that might provide distorted claims. 
Crucially, the results also suggest that beyond age, both general intelligence 
and advanced social cognitive skills play roles in children's ability to 
understand when and why they must doubt sources of distortion.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jecp.2014.01.015
PMID: 24727295 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


633. PLoS One. 2014 Apr 11;9(4):e94498. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0094498. 
eCollection 2014.

Maternal pre-pregnancy BMI and intelligence quotient (IQ) in 5-year-old 
children: a cohort based study.

Bliddal M(1), Olsen J(2), Støvring H(3), Eriksen HL(4), Kesmodel US(5), Sørensen 
TI(6), Nøhr EA(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynaecology and Obstetrics, Odense University Hospital, and 
Institute of Clinical Research, Research Unit of Gynaecology and Obstetrics, 
University of Southern Denmark, Odense, Denmark.
(2)Department of Public Health, Section for Epidemiology, Aarhus University, 
Aarhus, Denmark.
(3)Department of Public Health, Section for Biostatistics, Aarhus University, 
Aarhus, Denmark.
(4)Center of Functionally Integrative Neuroscience, Institute for Clinical 
Medicine, Aarhus University, Aarhus, Denmark.
(5)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Aarhus University Hospital, Aarhus, 
Denmark.
(6)Novo Nordisk Foundation Center for Basic Metabolic Research, University of 
Copenhagen, Denmark; Institute of Preventive Medicine, Bispebjerg and 
Frederiksberg Hospitals - Part of Copenhagen University Hospital, Copenhagen, 
Denmark.

BACKGROUND: An association between maternal pre-pregnancy BMI and childhood 
intelligence quotient (IQ) has repeatedly been found but it is unknown if this 
association is causal or due to confounding caused by genetic or social factors.
METHODS: We used a cohort of 1,783 mothers and their 5-year-old children sampled 
from the Danish National Birth Cohort. The children participated between 2003 
and 2008 in a neuropsychological assessment of cognitive ability including IQ 
tests taken by both the mother and the child. Linear regression analyses were 
used to estimate the associations between parental BMI and child IQ adjusted for 
a comprehensive set of potential confounders. Child IQ was assessed with the 
Wechsler Primary and Preschool Scales of Intelligence--Revised (WPPSI-R).
RESULTS: The crude association between maternal BMI and child IQ showed that BMI 
was adversely associated with child IQ with a reduction in IQ of -0.40 point for 
each one unit increase in BMI. This association was attenuated after adjustment 
for social factors and maternal IQ to a value of -0.27 (-0.50 to -0.03). After 
mutual adjustment for the father's BMI and all other factors except maternal IQ, 
the association between paternal BMI and child IQ yielded a regression 
coefficient of -0.26 (-0.59 to 0.07), which was comparable to that seen for 
maternal BMI (-0.20 (-0.44 to 0.04)).
CONCLUSION: Although maternal pre-pregnancy BMI was inversely associated with 
the IQ of her child, the similar association with paternal BMI suggests that it 
is not a specific pregnancy related adiposity effect.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0094498
PMCID: PMC3984139
PMID: 24727836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


634. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2014 Aug;68(8):728-33. doi: 
10.1136/jech-2013-203741. Epub 2014 Apr 11.

Measurement confounding affects the extent to which verbal IQ explains social 
gradients in mortality.

Chapman B(1), Fiscella K(2), Duberstein P(3), Kawachi I(4), Muennig P(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Rochester Medical Center, Rochester, 
New York, USA.
(2)Department of Family Medicine, University of Rochester Medical Center, Center 
for Communication and Disparities Research, Rochester, New York, USA Department 
of Public Health Sciences, University of Rochester Medical Center, Rochester, 
New York, USA.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, University of Rochester Medical Center, Rochester, 
New York, USA Department of Family Medicine, University of Rochester Medical 
Center, Center for Communication and Disparities Research, Rochester, New York, 
USA.
(4)Department of Society, Human Development, and Health, Harvard University 
School of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(5)Department of Health Management and Policy, Columbia University, Mailman 
School of Public Health, New York, New York, USA.

BACKGROUND: IQ is thought to explain social gradients in mortality. IQ scores 
are based roughly equally on Verbal IQ (VIQ) and Performance IQ tests. VIQ 
tests, however, are suspected to confound true verbal ability with socioeconomic 
status (SES), raising the possibility that associations between SES and IQ 
scores might be overestimated. We examined, first, whether two of the most 
common types of VIQ tests exhibited differential item functioning (DIF) 
favouring persons of higher SES and/or majority race/ethnicity. Second, we 
assessed what impact, if any, this had on estimates of the extent to which VIQ 
explains social gradients in mortality.
METHODS: Data from the General Social Survey-National Death Index cohort, a US 
population representative dataset, was used. Item response theory models queried 
social-factor DIF on the Thorndike Verbal Intelligence Scale and Wechsler Adult 
Intelligence Scales, Revised Similarities test. Cox models examined mortality 
associations among SES and VIQ scores corrected and uncorrected for DIF.
RESULTS: When uncorrected for DIF, VIQ was correlated with income, education, 
occupational prestige and race, with correlation coefficients ranging between 
|0.12| and |0.43|. After correcting for DIF, correlations ranged from |0.06| to 
|0.16|. Uncorrected VIQ scores explained 11-40% of the Relative Index of 
Inequalities in mortality for social factors, while DIF-corrected scores 
explained 2-29%.
CONCLUSIONS: Two of the common forms of VIQ tests appear confound verbal 
intelligence with SES. Since these tests appear in most IQ batteries, 
circumspection may be warranted in estimating the amount of social inequalities 
in mortality attributable to IQ.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not 
already granted under a licence) please go to 
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

DOI: 10.1136/jech-2013-203741
PMCID: PMC4846277
PMID: 24729404 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


635. Biomed Res Int. 2014;2014:362738. doi: 10.1155/2014/362738. Epub 2014 Mar 6.

A survey on evolutionary algorithm based hybrid intelligence in bioinformatics.

Li S(1), Kang L(1), Zhao XM(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Mathematics, Shanghai University, Shanghai 200444, China.
(2)Department of Computer Science, School of Electronics and Information 
Engineering, Tongji University, Shanghai 201804, China.

With the rapid advance in genomics, proteomics, metabolomics, and other types of 
omics technologies during the past decades, a tremendous amount of data related 
to molecular biology has been produced. It is becoming a big challenge for the 
bioinformatists to analyze and interpret these data with conventional 
intelligent techniques, for example, support vector machines. Recently, the 
hybrid intelligent methods, which integrate several standard intelligent 
approaches, are becoming more and more popular due to their robustness and 
efficiency. Specifically, the hybrid intelligent approaches based on 
evolutionary algorithms (EAs) are widely used in various fields due to the 
efficiency and robustness of EAs. In this review, we give an introduction about 
the applications of hybrid intelligent methods, in particular those based on 
evolutionary algorithm, in bioinformatics. In particular, we focus on their 
applications to three common problems that arise in bioinformatics, that is, 
feature selection, parameter estimation, and reconstruction of biological 
networks.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/362738
PMCID: PMC3963368
PMID: 24729969 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


636. Geriatr Gerontol Int. 2015 Apr;15(4):428-34. doi: 10.1111/ggi.12292. Epub 2014 
Apr 15.

Impact of cognitive reserve on the progression of mild cognitive impairment to 
Alzheimer's disease in Japan.

Osone A(1), Arai R, Hakamada R, Shimoda K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Center for Dementia-Related Diseases, Dokkyo 
Medical University School of Medicine, Tochigi, Shimotsuga, Japan.

AIM: The present study aimed to investigate whether cognitive reserve (CR), 
referring here to education and premorbid intelligence (IQ), is associated with 
the risk for progression from mild cognitive impairment (MCI) to Alzheimer's 
disease (AD).
METHODS: A total of 51 patients with MCI and 59 patients with AD were 
prospectively enrolled for assessment with the Mini-Mental State Examination, 
the Japanese version of the cognitive subscale of the Alzheimer's Disease 
Assessment Scale, the Japanese version of the Nelson Adult Reading Test (JART), 
magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and single-photon emission computed tomography 
(SPECT), adjusting for sex, age at diagnosis, age at onset and duration of 
illness.
RESULTS: SPECT findings showed hypoperfusion in the posterior cingulate gyri and 
precunei, suggesting that the participants were in the early or mild stage of AD 
or MCI. Voxel-based morphometry MRI showed no statistical differences between 
the two groups in gray matter loss in the entorhinal and hippocampal areas; 
however, multiple logistic regression analysis showed a significant difference 
in premorbid IQ measured with JART.
CONCLUSION: Despite the limitations of the cross-sectional design, the findings 
suggest that premorbid intellectual function might explain the discrepancy in 
clinical status between MCI and AD patients with a similar magnitude of brain 
pathology and comorbid medical disorders.

© 2014 The Authors. Geriatrics & Gerontology International published by Wiley 
Publishing Asia Pty Ltd on behalf of Japan Geriatrics Society.

DOI: 10.1111/ggi.12292
PMCID: PMC4405044
PMID: 24730644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


637. J Exp Psychol Gen. 2014 Aug;143(4):1553-1569. doi: 10.1037/a0036306. Epub 2014 
Apr 14.

Individual differences in memory search and their relation to intelligence.

Healey MK(1), Crutchley P(1), Kahana MJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Pennsylvania.

Attempts to understand why memory predicts intelligence have not fully leveraged 
state-of-the-art measures of recall dynamics. Using data from a multisession 
free recall study, we examine individual differences in measures of recall 
initiation and postinitiation transitions. We identify 4 sources of variation: a 
recency factor reflecting variation in the tendency to initiate recall from an 
item near the end of the list, a primacy factor reflecting a tendency to 
initiate from the beginning of the list, a temporal factor corresponding to 
transitions mediated by temporal associations, and a semantic factor 
corresponding to semantically mediated transitions. Together, these 4 factors 
account for 83% of the variability in overall recall accuracy, suggesting they 
provide a nearly complete picture of recall dynamics. We also show that these 
sources of variability account for over 80% of the variance shared between 
memory and intelligence. The temporal association factor was the most 
influential in predicting both recall accuracy and intelligence. We outline a 
theory of how controlled drift of temporal context may be critical across a 
range of cognitive activities.

PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/a0036306
PMCID: PMC4128018
PMID: 24730719 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


638. Phys Rev E Stat Nonlin Soft Matter Phys. 2014 Mar;89(3):032716. doi: 
10.1103/PhysRevE.89.032716. Epub 2014 Mar 26.

Stochastic resonance in an intracellular genetic perceptron.

Bates R(1), Blyuss O(2), Zaikin A(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Mathematics, University College London, United Kingdom.
(2)Institute for Women's Health, University College London, United Kingdom.
(3)Department of Mathematics, University College London, United Kingdom and 
Institute for Women's Health, University College London, United Kingdom and 
Department of Mathematics, King AbdulAziz University, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia and 
Lobachevsky State University of Nizhniy Novgorod, Nizhniy Novgorod, Russia.

Intracellular genetic networks are more intelligent than was first assumed due 
to their ability to learn. One of the manifestations of this intelligence is the 
ability to learn associations of two stimuli within gene-regulating circuitry: 
Hebbian-type learning within the cellular life. However, gene expression is an 
intrinsically noisy process; hence, we investigate the effect of intrinsic and 
extrinsic noise on this kind of intracellular intelligence. We report a 
stochastic resonance in an intracellular associative genetic perceptron, a 
noise-induced phenomenon, which manifests itself in noise-induced increase of 
response in efficiency after the learning event under the conditions of optimal 
stochasticity.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevE.89.032716
PMID: 24730883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


639. Epilepsia. 2014 Jun;55(6):901-8. doi: 10.1111/epi.12622. Epub 2014 Apr 15.

Birth weight and cognition in children with epilepsy.

Jackson DC(1), Lin JJ, Chambers KL, Kessler-Jones A, Jones JE, Hsu DA, Stafstrom 
CE, Seidenberg M, Hermann BP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and 
Public Health, Madison, Wisconsin, U.S.A.

OBJECTIVE: Birth weight is an important indicator of prenatal environment, and 
subtle variations of birth weight within the normal range have been associated 
with differential risk for cognitive and behavioral problems. Therefore, we 
aimed to determine if there are differences in birth weight between full-term 
children with uncomplicated new/recent-onset epilepsies and typically developing 
healthy controls. We further examined the relationships between birth weight and 
childhood/adolescent cognition, behavior, and academic achievement.
METHODS: One hundred eight children with new-onset/recent-onset epilepsy and 70 
healthy controls underwent neuropsychological assessment. All participants were 
born full-term (>37 weeks) without birth complications. Parents were interviewed 
regarding their child's gestation, birth, and neurodevelopmental history.
RESULTS: Birth weight of children with epilepsy was significantly lower than 
healthy controls (p = 0.023). Whereas birth weight (covaried with age, sex, 
handedness, and mother's education) was significantly associated with cognition 
in controls in multiple domains (intelligence, language, aspects of academic 
achievement), this relationship was absent in children with epilepsy. Birth 
weight was not associated with clinical epilepsy variables (age of onset, 
epilepsy syndrome) and was not predictive of a variety of other academic or 
psychiatric comorbidities of epilepsy.
SIGNIFICANCE: Although the origin of lower birth weight in children with 
epilepsy is unknown, these findings raise the possibility that abnormal prenatal 
environment may affect childhood-onset epilepsy. Furthermore, the positive 
relationship between birth weight and cognition evident in healthy controls was 
disrupted in children with epilepsy. However, birth weight was not related to 
academic and psychiatric comorbidities of childhood epilepsy. A PowerPoint slide 
summarizing this article is available for download in the Supporting Information 
section here.

Wiley Periodicals, Inc. © 2014 International League Against Epilepsy.

DOI: 10.1111/epi.12622
PMCID: PMC4057970
PMID: 24735169 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


640. Epilepsy Res. 2014 Jul;108(5):928-36. doi: 10.1016/j.eplepsyres.2014.03.012. 
Epub 2014 Mar 27.

The effect of phenobarbitone on cognition in adult patients with new onset 
epilepsy: a multi-centric prospective study from India.

Satischandra P(1), Rao SL(2), Ravat S(3), Jayalakhsmi S(4), Senapathy A(5), Shah 
U(6), Shunmukhi MS(7), Dutta A(8), Mukaddam Q(9), Naik M(9), Subbakrishna 
DK(10), Sinha S(11).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, NIMHANS, Bangalore, India.
(2)Department of Clinical Psychology, NIMHANS, Bangalore, India.
(3)Department of Neurology, KEM Hospital, Mumbai, India.
(4)Department of Neurology, NIMS, Hyderabad, India.
(5)Department of Neurology, BIN, Kolkata, India.
(6)Department of Clinical Psychology, KEM Hospital, Mumbai, India.
(7)Department of Clinical Psychology, NIMS, Hyderabad, India.
(8)Department of Clinical Psychology, BIN, Kolkata, India.
(9)Medical Services, Abbott Healthcare Pvt. Ltd., Mumbai, India.
(10)Department of Biostatistics, NIMHANS, Bangalore, India.
(11)Department of Neurology, NIMHANS, Bangalore, India. Electronic address: 
sanjib_sinha2004@yahoo.co.in.

OBJECTIVE: In view of the conflicting results of cognitive and behavioral 
consequences of PB, the present study was planned to analyze its efficacy, 
serial neuropsychological functions and its impact on psychosocial functioning 
in adults with epilepsy while on phenobarbitone (PB).
METHODOLOGY: This prospective multi-centric study carried out across 4 centers 
in India included 75 adult patients of ≥18 years (M:F=52:23; age: 27.3 ± 8.5 
years) with epilepsy who were prescribed phenobarbitone and underwent serial 
standardized neuropsychological assessment (NIMHANS battery for adults) at 
baseline, 1 month, 3 months, 6 months and 12 months. The demographic, seizure 
details and outcome measures were recorded.
RESULTS: Of the 75 patients, 63 had completed clinical and neuropsychological 
assessment, i.e. visit 1 (baseline), visit 4 (6 months) and visit 5 (12 months). 
There was no deterioration rather an improvement during the follow visits in all 
the neuropsychological functions. The results indicate that 16 
neuropsychological variables changed significantly, viz. mental speed (p<0.001), 
sustained attention (p<0.001), focused attention (p<0.002), planning (p<0.001), 
concept formation (p<0.05), set shifting (p<0.001), verbal learning (p<0.0001), 
verbal memory (p<0.0001), visual memory (p<0.0001) and intelligence (p<0.001). 
The scales measuring the outcome of psychosocial functioning significantly 
changed during follow up included happiness (p<0.002), Impact of Epilepsy on 
patient's life (p<0.02), A-B Neuropsychological Assessment (p<0.015), HADS 
anxiety (p<0.001) and emotional disorder (p<0.006). There was a significant 
reduction in seizure severity as measured by Liverpool Seizure Severity Scale 
(p<0.002) and seizure freedom was maintained.
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrated that phenobarbitone is effective, well 
tolerated AED and do not have cognitive impairment over one year. There was 
variable but distinct improvement in cognition and psychosocial functioning, and 
effective seizure control could be one of the factor for it.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eplepsyres.2014.03.012
PMID: 24735753 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


641. J Int Neuropsychol Soc. 2014 May;20(5):506-15. doi: 10.1017/S1355617714000332. 
Epub 2014 Apr 16.

Executive functions in very-low-birth-weight young adults: a comparison between 
self-report and neuropsychological test results.

Sølsnes AE(1), Skranes J(1), Brubakk AM(1), Løhaugen GC(1).

Author information:
(1)1Department of Laboratory Medicine,Children's and Women's Health,Norwegian 
University of Science and Technology,Trondheim,Norway.

Executive functions are goal-directed control mechanisms that modulate the 
operation of other cognitive processes. Preterm born very-low-birth-weight 
(VLBW: birth weight<1500 grams) children have more problems with 
attention/executive function than their term born peers. The objective of this 
study is to examine if VLBW young adults had more self-reported attention/ 
executive problems and lower neuropsychological test results than controls. 
Furthermore, to investigate the relationship between self-reported 
attention/executive problems, general cognitive ability (IQ) and test results. 
Forty-two VLBW [mean birth weight 1237 (219) grams, and gestational age 29.3 
(2.4) weeks] and 63 term born controls at age 19 years completed The BRIEF-A 
self-report of attention/executive functions in everyday life. The Wechsler 
Adult Intelligence Scale III was used to obtain IQ scores; subtests from 
Delis-Kaplan were used to assess attention/executive function. There were no 
differences between the VLBW young adults and controls on any of the BRIEF-A 
measures, but the VLBW subjects had lower scores on 8 of the 18 
neuropsychological subtests (p<.01). Some correlations between BRIEF-A and the 
Stroop and TMT tests were found in the VLBW group. VLBW young adults do not 
report more problems regarding attention/executive function in daily life than 
controls despite lower results on several neuropsychological tests.

DOI: 10.1017/S1355617714000332
PMID: 24735984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


642. Nat Commun. 2014 Apr 16;5:3666. doi: 10.1038/ncomms4666.

Self-assembled ultrathin nanotubes on diamond (100) surface.

Lu S(1), Wang Y(2), Liu H(2), Miao MS(3), Ma Y(2).

Author information:
(1)1] State Key Lab of Superhard Materials, Jilin University, Changchun 130012, 
China [2] Beijing Computational Science Research Center, Beijing 10084, China.
(2)State Key Lab of Superhard Materials, Jilin University, Changchun 130012, 
China.
(3)1] Beijing Computational Science Research Center, Beijing 10084, China [2] 
Materials Research Laboratory, University of California, Santa Barbara, 
93106-5050 California, USA.

Surfaces of semiconductors are crucially important for electronics, especially 
when the devices are reduced to the nanoscale. However, surface structures are 
often elusive, impeding greatly the engineering of devices. Here we develop an 
efficient method that can automatically explore the surface structures using 
structure swarm intelligence. Its application to a simple diamond (100) surface 
reveals an unexpected surface reconstruction featuring self-assembled carbon 
nanotubes arrays. Such a surface is energetically competitive with the known 
dimer structure under normal conditions, but it becomes more favourable under a 
small compressive strain or at high temperatures. The intriguing covalent 
bonding between neighbouring tubes creates a unique feature of carrier kinetics 
(that is, one dimensionality of hole states, while two dimensionality of 
electron states) that could lead to novel design of superior electronics. Our 
findings highlight that the surface plays vital roles in the fabrication of 
nanodevices by being a functional part of them.

DOI: 10.1038/ncomms4666
PMID: 24736622


643. Sci Eng Ethics. 2015 Apr;21(2):317-26. doi: 10.1007/s11948-014-9541-0. Epub 2014 
Apr 16.

Artificial intelligence and robot responsibilities: innovating beyond rights.

Ashrafian H(1).

Author information:
(1)Imperial College London, 10th Floor QEQM-Building, Praed Street, London, W2 
1NY, UK, h.ashrafian@imperial.ac.uk.

The enduring innovations in artificial intelligence and robotics offer the 
promised capacity of computer consciousness, sentience and rationality. The 
development of these advanced technologies have been considered to merit rights, 
however these can only be ascribed in the context of commensurate 
responsibilities and duties. This represents the discernable next-step for 
evolution in this field. Addressing these needs requires attention to the 
philosophical perspectives of moral responsibility for artificial intelligence 
and robotics. A contrast to the moral status of animals may be considered. At a 
practical level, the attainment of responsibilities by artificial intelligence 
and robots can benefit from the established responsibilities and duties of human 
society, as their subsistence exists within this domain. These responsibilities 
can be further interpreted and crystalized through legal principles, many of 
which have been conserved from ancient Roman law. The ultimate and unified goal 
of stipulating these responsibilities resides through the advancement of mankind 
and the enduring preservation of the core tenets of humanity.

DOI: 10.1007/s11948-014-9541-0
PMID: 24737482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


644. Glob Health Promot. 2014 Mar;21(1 Suppl):31-5. doi: 10.1177/1757975913512158.

[Why must we ‘master’ trust between all parties, in order to cultivate a process 
of sustainable local development?].

[Article in French]

Decoster DP(1).

Author information:
(1)1.Université de Mons, Mons, Belgique.

A sustainable territorial development process represents a society characterized 
by its uniqueness to the territory of implementation. This notion of territory 
constitutes a fact of human nature, the development of which integrates 
collective and individual wellbeing through an intersectoral and 
multidisciplinary process. When carrying out joint projects, the partnership 
dynamic can transform interpersonal relationships and encourage the development 
of trust at the very core of the sustainable local development process. This 
trust enables the creation of a collective territorial intelligence, based on 
individual and sectoral knowledge and on know-how that form a shared, intangible 
heritage for each of the stakeholders in the sustainable territorial development 
process; however, as a fact of human nature, this trust remains fragile.

DOI: 10.1177/1757975913512158
PMID: 24737811 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


645. Exp Neurobiol. 2014 Mar;23(1):1-27. doi: 10.5607/en.2014.23.1.1. Epub 2014 Mar 
27.

Cerebral lateralization of pro- and anti-social tendencies.

Hecht D(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Cognitive Neuroscience, University College London, London, 
United Kingdom.

Mounting evidence suggest that the right-hemisphere (RH) has a relative 
advantage, over the left-hemisphere (LH), in mediating social intelligence - 
identifying social stimuli, understanding the intentions of other people, 
awareness of the dynamics in social relationships, and successful handling of 
social interactions. Furthermore, a review and synthesis of the literature 
suggest that pro-social attitudes and behaviors are associated with 
physiological activity in the RH, whereas unsocial and anti-social tendencies 
are mediated primarily by the LH. This hemispheric asymmetry is rooted in 
several neurobiological and functional differences between the two hemispheres. 
(I) Positive social interactions often require inhibiting one's immediate 
desires and considering the perspectives and needs of others. Given that 
self-control is mediated by the RH, pro-social emotions and behaviors are, 
therefore, inherently associated with the RH as it subserves the brain's 
self-restraint mechanisms. (II) The RH mediates experiences of vulnerability. It 
registers the relative clumsiness and motor weakness of the left limbs, and it 
is involved, more than the LH, in processing threats and mediating fear. 
Emotional states of vulnerability trigger the need for affiliation and 
sociality, therefore the RH has a greater role in mediating pro-social attitudes 
and behaviors. (III) The RH mediates a holistic mode of representing the world. 
Holistic perception emphasizes similarities rather than differences, takes a 
long-term perspective, is associated with divergent thinking and seeing other 
points-of-view, and it mediates a personal mode of relating to people. All these 
features of holistic perception facilitate a more empathetic attitude toward 
others and pro-social behaviors.

DOI: 10.5607/en.2014.23.1.1
PMCID: PMC3984952
PMID: 24737936


646. Zhonghua Er Ke Za Zhi. 2014 Feb;52(2):107-11.

[Relationship between the level of sialic acid during perinatal period and early 
intelligence development of full term infants].

[Article in Chinese]

Wu Y(1), Shao Z(1), Gao W(1), Li H(1), Xu M(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Affiliated Hospital of Nantong University, Nantong 
226001, China.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, Affiliated Hospital of Nantong University, Nantong 
226001, China. Email: xumeiyu_nt@hotmail.com.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the correlation between the status of sialic acid (SA) 
during perinatal period and early intelligence development of healthy full term 
infant, and to explore the effect of SA on the early intelligence development.
METHOD: A total of 127 pairs of healthy mothers-neonates in the Affiliated 
Hospital of Nantong University were recruited randomly in this prospective 
cohort study. The levels of SA from body fluids of mothers-neonates were 
measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, such as the full-term maternal 
and cord blood and the colostrum. The questionnaire surveys were carried out in 
mothers and mental development evaluation according to Children's Development 
Center of China (CDCC) were carried out in infants 3 to 4 months of age to 
obtain the mental development index (MDI) and psycho-motor development index 
(PDI).
RESULT: A total of 120 pairs of maternal-neonatal subjects with complete data 
were included into statistical analysis. The levels of SA of maternal and cord 
blood and colostrum were (2.25 ± 0.02), (1.21 ± 0.01), and (5.01 ± 0.06) mmol/L 
respectively. MDI and PDI of infants 3 to 4 months of age were (99.40 ± 1.87) 
and (98.53 ± 1.96). The analysis using multiple linear regression indicated that 
MDI was associated with SA levels of cord blood and colostrum (β = 0.636, 0.175, 
P < 0.05), and PDI was also associated with them (β = 0.502, 0.262, P < 0.05). 
The levels of SA of cord blood and colostrums were individually divided into 
high-level group and low-level one according to the median level. MDI and PDI in 
high-level group of cord blood were both significantly higher than that in 
low-level group (111.85 ± 2.79) vs. (108.88 ± 2.0) , (101.08 ± 4.44) vs. (98.88 
± 2.0) P < 0.01. So were MDI and PDI in high-level group of colostrum compared 
with those in low-level group (111.71 ± 3.07) vs. (108.81 ± 1.56), P < 0.01; 
(101.29 ± 4.23) vs.(98.56 ± 1.79), P < 0.05. The analysis on correlation between 
the levels of maternal-neonatal body fluids showed that the level of SA of 
colostrum was positively correlated with that of cord blood (r = 0.507, P = 
0.004). However, no correlation was found either between the level of SA of 
maternal and cord blood or between the level of SA of maternal blood and 
colostrums. Further division into high-level and low-level groups was done 
according to the median level of maternal blood. The levels of SA of colostrum 
and cord blood in high-level group were markedly higher than those in low-level 
one (5.12 ± 0.35) vs. (4.87 ± 0.22) and (1.21 ± 0.02) vs. (1.17 ± 0.01), P < 
0.05.
CONCLUSION: High levels of SA of cord blood and colostrums might be beneficial 
to the early intelligence development of full term infant. Abundant intake of SA 
during perinatal period and good function of placenta may play important role in 
early intelligence development.

PMID: 24739721 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


647. J Educ Health Promot. 2014 Feb 21;3:24. doi: 10.4103/2277-9531.127616. 
eCollection 2014.

The relationship between emotional intelligence health and marital satisfaction: 
A comparative study.

Eslami AA(1), Hasanzadeh A(2), Jamshidi F(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Education and Promotion, Isfahan University of Medical 
Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
(2)Department of Biostatistics and Epidemiology, School of Health, Isfahan 
University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.

INTRODUCTION: Marriage is known as the most important incident in everyone's 
life after birth. The most important purpose of marriage is achieving a life 
followed with love and affection beside the spouse and providing mental comfort 
and general health. The aim of the present study is to investigate the 
relationship between emotional intelligence health and marital satisfaction 
among married people.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The research method is descriptive- analytic and its 
design is comparative, done on 226 people including 114 persons (50 women and 64 
men) having marital conflicts, and 112 people (58 women and 54 men) having 
marital satisfaction, by cluster random sampling from 13 districts of the city 
of Isfahan. Bar-on (with 90 questions) and Enrich marital satisfaction (115 
questions) questionnaires were used for collecting the required information. The 
data was analyzed using descriptive statistics including independent t-tests, 
Pearson correlation, and linear regression analysis, using SPSS software version 
19.
RESULTS: The results from the research showed that the scores of emotional 
intelligence in married people group having marriage conflicts who had referred 
to the administration of justice was 57.3 ± 13.2, and the random sample from the 
married people in the city of Isfahan as the comparing group had the score of 
67.2 ± 9.5, and the difference of the average scores for the emotional 
intelligence for the two groups was significant (P < 0.001). The correlation 
analysis showed that there was a significant and positive relation between 
emotional intelligence and marital satisfaction (P < 0.001, r = 0.529). The 
results of linear regression also showed that the general emotional intelligence 
predicts the quality of marital satisfaction. The emotion of the predicting line 
of the marital satisfaction score (y) is in the form of: y = 14.8 + 0.656x, by 
using the emotional intelligence score (x).
CONCLUSION: Regarding the close relations between emotional intelligence and 
marital satisfaction, education centers such as universities, organizations and 
family clinics could use this variable in micro- and macro-social plans for 
improving the quality of the married people relations and promoting health of 
the families and the society.

DOI: 10.4103/2277-9531.127616
PMCID: PMC3977397
PMID: 24741664

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None declared


648. Nurs Philos. 2014 Apr;15(2):125-37. doi: 10.1111/nup.12024.

Lonergan's philosophy as grounding for cross-disciplinary research.

Kane A.

Increasingly, nurses conduct scientific inquiry into complex health-care 
problems by collaborating on teams with researchers from other highly 
specialized fields. As cross-disciplinary research proliferates and becomes 
institutionalized globally, researchers will increasingly encounter the need to 
integrate their particular research perspectives within inquiries without 
sacrificing the potential contributions of their discipline-specific expertise. 
The work of the philosopher Bernard Lonergan (1904–1984) offers the necessary 
philosophical grounding. Here, I defend a role for philosophy in 
cross-disciplinary research and present selected ideas in Lonergan's work. These 
include: (1) a dynamic, normative pattern that each inquirer operates uniquely 
also forms the common core, or unity, in knowing; (2) the possibility of 
cross-disciplinary knowledge development is dependent on each researcher's 
consciousness of her or his attentiveness, intelligence, reasonableness, and 
responsibleness; and (3) shifts in researchers' viewpoints, or horizons, 
facilitate their collaborative inquiry and their grasp of the unity in knowing. 
The desire to know, shared by team members, drives their inquiry. Lonergan's 
stance is consistent with nursing values because it respects, but does not 
unconditionally privilege, any researcher or discipline. Arguments support a 
claim that Lonergan's perspective is well suited to guide nurse researchers 
participating on cross-disciplinary health research teams.

DOI: 10.1111/nup.12024
PMID: 24741692 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


649. BMC Med Educ. 2014 Apr 17;14:83. doi: 10.1186/1472-6920-14-83.

Do we develop public health leaders?- association between public health 
competencies and emotional intelligence: a cross-sectional study.

Czabanowska K(1), Malho A, Schröder-Bäck P, Popa D, Burazeri G.

Author information:
(1)Department of International Health, CAPHRI, Faculty of Health, Medicine and 
Life Sciences, Maastricht University, P,O, Box 616, Maastricht 6200, MD, 
Netherlands. kasia.czabanowska@maastrichtuniversity.nl.

BACKGROUND: Professional development of public health leaders requires a form of 
instruction which is competency-based to help them develop the abilities to 
address complex and evolving demands of health care systems. Concurrently, 
emotional intelligence (EI) is a key to organisational success. Our aim was 
twofold: i) to assess the relationship between the level of self-assessed public 
health and EI competencies among Master of European Public Health (MEPH) 
students and graduates at Maastricht University, and; ii) to determine the 
relationship between different groups of public health competencies and specific 
EI skills.
METHODS: A cross-sectional study was conducted including all recent MEPH 
graduates and students from 2009-2012, out of 67 eligible candidates N = 51 were 
contacted and N = 33 responded (11 males and 22 females; overall response: 
64.7%).Two validated tools were employed: i) public health competencies 
self-assessment questionnaire, and; ii) Assessing Emotions Scale.
RESULTS: Females scored higher than males in all seven domains of the 
self-assessed key public health competencies (NS) and emotional intelligence 
competences (P = 0.022). Overall, the mean value of public health competencies 
was the lowest in students with "staff" preferences and the highest among 
students with mixed job preferences (P < 0.001). There was evidence of a 
correlation between the overall public health competencies and the overall 
emotional intelligence competencies (r = 0.61, P < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: The study shows a positive correlation between public health 
specific competencies and EI attributes. It can contribute to the improvement of 
the educational content of PH curricula by rising awareness through 
self-assessment and supporting the identification of further educational needs 
related to leadership.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6920-14-83
PMCID: PMC3998058
PMID: 24742091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


650. Dev Neuropsychol. 2014;39(3):226-32. doi: 10.1080/87565641.2013.874428.

The relationship between brain structure and cognition in transfused preterm 
children at school age.

McCoy TE(1), Conrad AL, Richman LC, Brumbaugh JE, Magnotta VA, Bell EF, Nopoulos 
PC.

Author information:
(1)a Hope Springs Behavioral Consultants, PLC (Private Practice) , Coralville , 
Iowa.

Examine the relationship between brain structure and cognition in preterm 
children randomly assigned to a liberal red blood cell (RBC) transfusion 
strategy as neonates. Intelligence, achievement, and neuropsychological measures 
were assessed and structural imaging was obtained (n = 26; 38% male). Global 
brain volumes were related to cognitive outcome. Additionally, females performed 
lower on verbal fluency; lower performance was related to temporal white matter 
volume. Findings provide possible evidence of the adverse effect of a liberal 
RBC transfusion strategy in which females had decreased temporal lobe white 
matter directly related to poor verbal fluency.

DOI: 10.1080/87565641.2013.874428
PMCID: PMC4071071
PMID: 24742312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


651. Sci Eng Ethics. 2015 Apr;21(2):271-92. doi: 10.1007/s11948-014-9544-x. Epub 2014 
Apr 18.

The capacity for ethical decisions: the relationship between working memory and 
ethical decision making.

Martin A(1), Bagdasarov Z, Connelly S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Oklahoma, 455 W. Lindsey St., Dale 
Hall Tower, Room 705, Norman, OK, 73019, USA, april@ou.edu.

Although various models of ethical decision making (EDM) have implicitly called 
upon constructs governed by working memory capacity (WMC), a study examining 
this relationship specifically has not been conducted. Using a sense making 
framework of EDM, we examined the relationship between WMC and various 
sensemaking processes contributing to EDM. Participants completed an online 
assessment comprised of a demographic survey, intelligence test, various EDM 
measures, and the Automated Operation Span task to determine WMC. Results 
indicated that WMC accounted for unique variance above and beyond ethics 
education, exposure to ethical issues, and intelligence in several sensemaking 
processes. Additionally, a marginally significant effect of WMC was also found 
with reference to EDM. Individual differences in WMC appear likely to play an 
important role in the ethical decision-making process, and future researchers 
may wish to consider their potential influences.

DOI: 10.1007/s11948-014-9544-x
PMID: 24744116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


652. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2014 Jul;68(7):679-82. doi: 
10.1136/jech-2013-203719. Epub 2014 Apr 17.

Association of paternal IQ in early adulthood with offspring mortality and 
hospital admissions for injuries: a cohort study of 503 492 Swedish children.

Jelenkovic A(1), Silventoinen K(2), Tynelius P(3), Rasmussen F(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics, Physical Anthropology and Animal Physiology, 
University of the Basque Country UPV/EHU, Leioa, Spain IKERBASQUE, Basque 
Foundation for Science, Bilbao, Spain Department of Public Health, Hjelt 
Institute, University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland.
(2)Population Research Unit, Department of Social Research, University of 
Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland.
(3)Child and Adolescent Public Health Epidemiology, Department of Public Health 
Sciences, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.

BACKGROUND: Higher intelligence (IQ) has been related to a lower risk of 
mortality and hospital admissions for injuries, but little is known about the 
effect of parental IQ on offspring outcomes. We explored associations of 
paternal IQ with mortality and hospitalisations for injuries from all external 
causes in offspring.
METHODS: A cohort of 503 492 Swedish children under 5 years of age with 
information on paternal IQ was obtained by record linkage of national registers. 
HR with 95% CIs were estimated using Cox regression.
RESULTS: There was some evidence that paternal IQ was inversely associated with 
total and external-cause mortality in offspring, although the effects were 
modest and disappeared when controlling for parents' socioeconomic position 
(SEP). The only robust gradient was found between paternal IQ and hospital 
admissions for injuries (HRper 1-SD increase in IQ 0.93, 95% CI 0.92 to 0.94; 
p<0.001), which was slightly attenuated but retained statistical significance 
after adjustment for SEP (0.95, 95% CI 0.94 to 0.97; p<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Children to fathers with lower IQ may have an increased risk of 
injury by external causes. Messages on family safety and injury prevention might 
be tailored according to parental cognitive abilities.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not 
already granted under a licence) please go to 
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

DOI: 10.1136/jech-2013-203719
PMID: 24744412 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


653. J Neurosurg Pediatr. 2014 Jun;13(6):690-8. doi: 10.3171/2014.3.PEDS13516. Epub 
2014 Apr 18.

Altered brain connectivity in sagittal craniosynostosis.

Beckett JS(1), Brooks ED, Lacadie C, Vander Wyk B, Jou RJ, Steinbacher DM, 
Constable RT, Pelphrey KA, Persing JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, University of California, Los Angeles, 
California;

OBJECT: Sagittal nonsyndromic craniosynostosis (sNSC) is the most common form of 
NSC. The condition is associated with a high prevalence (> 50%) of deficits in 
executive function. The authors employed diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) and 
functional MRI to evaluate whether hypothesized structural and functional 
connectivity differences underlie the observed neurocognitive morbidity of sNSC.
METHODS: Using a 3-T Siemens Trio MRI system, the authors collected DTI and 
resting-state functional connectivity MRI data in 8 adolescent patients (mean 
age 12.3 years) with sNSC that had been previously corrected via total vault 
cranioplasty and 8 control children (mean age 12.3 years) without 
craniosynostosis. Data were analyzed using the FMRIB Software Library and 
BioImageSuite.
RESULTS: Analyses of the DTI data revealed white matter alterations approaching 
statistical significance in all supratentorial lobes. Statistically significant 
group differences (sNSC < control group) in mean diffusivity were localized to 
the right supramarginal gyrus. Analysis of the resting-state seed in relation to 
whole-brain data revealed significant increases in negative connectivity 
(anticorrelations) of Brodmann area 8 to the prefrontal cortex (Montreal 
Neurological Institute [MNI] center of mass coordinates [x, y, z]: -6, 53, 6) 
and anterior cingulate cortex (MNI coordinates 6, 43, 14) in the sNSC group 
relative to controls. Furthermore, in the sNSC patients versus controls, the 
Brodmann area 7, 39, and 40 seed had decreased connectivity to left angular 
gyrus (MNI coordinates -31, -61, 34), posterior cingulate cortex (MNI 
coordinates 13, -52, 18), precuneus (MNI coordinates 10, -55, 54), left and 
right parahippocampus (MNI coordinates -13, -52, 2 and MNI coordinates 11, -50, 
2, respectively), lingual (MNI coordinates -11, -86, -10), and fusiform gyri 
(MNI coordinates -30, -79, -18). Intrinsic connectivity analysis also revealed 
altered connectivity between central nodes in the default mode network in sNSC 
relative to controls; the left and right posterior cingulate cortices (MNI 
coordinates -5, -35, 34 and MNI coordinates 6, -42, 39, respectively) were 
negatively correlated to right hemisphere precuneus (MNI coordinates 6, -71, 
46), while the left ventromedial prefrontal cortex (MNI coordinates 6, 34, -8) 
was negatively correlated to right middle frontal gyrus (MNI coordinates 40, 4, 
33). All group comparisons (sNSC vs controls) were conducted at a whole 
brain-corrected threshold of p < 0.05.
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates altered neocortical structural and 
functional connectivity in sNSC that may, in part or substantially, underlie the 
neuropsychological deficits commonly reported in this population. Future studies 
combining analysis of multimodal MRI and clinical characterization data in 
larger samples of participants are warranted.

DOI: 10.3171/2014.3.PEDS13516
PMID: 24745341 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


654. Res Dev Disabil. 2014 Jul;35(7):1433-8. doi: 10.1016/j.ridd.2014.03.034. Epub 
2014 Apr 18.

Differences in counter-movement jump between boys with and without intellectual 
disability.

Hassani A(1), Kotzamanidou MC(2), Tsimaras V(1), Lazaridis S(1), Kotzamanidis 
C(1), Patikas D(3).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Coaching and Sport Performance, Department of Physical 
Education and Sport Sciences, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, 
Thessaloniki, Greece.
(2)Department of Physiotherapy, Faculty of Health and Human Sciences, Akmi 
Metropolitan College, Thessaloniki, Greece.
(3)Department of Physical Education and Sport Science, Aristotle University of 
Thessaloniki, Serres, Greece. Electronic address: dpatikas@auth.gr.

The purpose of this study was to describe the performance and biomechanical 
parameters of the counter-movement jump for young people with ID, in comparison 
with age matched individuals without ID. Volunteers with ID (n=13; age=15.3 ± 
1.6 years; Wisk III intelligence quotient 55.6 ± 11.2) and without ID (n=13; 
age=15.4 ± 1.2 years) performed maximal counter-movement jumps, while knee 
kinematics, vertical ground reaction forces and electromyographic activity of 
the vastus lateralis and biceps femoris were captured. Individuals without ID 
jumped higher than their counterparts with ID and had lower take-off velocity, 
lower knee joint power and stiffness, lower knee joint extension angle and 
angular velocity, longer braking and propulsion phase, lower agonist and higher 
antagonist EMG activity. These results give an insight on possible causes for 
the performance deficit in CMJ in persons with ID and give the potential for 
such individuals to improve their ability to jump higher and more efficiently.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ridd.2014.03.034
PMID: 24747260 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


655. J Nanosci Nanotechnol. 2014 Feb;14(2):1746-57. doi: 10.1166/jnn.2014.9196.

Swarm intelligence in bioinformatics: methods and implementations for 
discovering patterns of multiple sequences.

Cui Z, Zhang Y.

As a promising and innovative research field, bioinformatics has attracted 
increasing attention recently. Beneath the enormous number of open problems in 
this field, one fundamental issue is about the accurate and efficient 
computational methodology that can deal with tremendous amounts of data. In this 
paper, we survey some applications of swarm intelligence to discover patterns of 
multiple sequences. To provide a deep insight, ant colony optimization, particle 
swarm optimization, artificial bee colony and artificial fish swarm algorithm 
are selected, and their applications to multiple sequence alignment and motif 
detecting problem are discussed.

DOI: 10.1166/jnn.2014.9196
PMID: 24749453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


656. Dev Psychol. 2014 Jun;50(6):1687-97. doi: 10.1037/a0036655. Epub 2014 Apr 21.

The development of relational integration during childhood.

Dauvier B(1), Bailleux C(1), Perret P(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Research in the Psychology of Cognition, Language and Emotion 
(PsyCLE), Aix-Marseille University.

Relational integration refers to the process whereby several variables are 
integrated within a single cognitive representation. In cognitive and 
developmental science, it is regarded as a central function of working memory 
that may contribute to the development of higher order processes, such as 
reasoning and fluid intelligence. In the present experiment, we administered the 
Relational Integration Level Assessment Task (RILAT), a novel experimental task 
designed to assess children's level of relational integration, to participants 
aged 5-12 years, along with a measure of fluid intelligence. Results yielded age 
norms for the development of successive levels of relational complexity and 
indicated a smooth progression rather than abrupt, stage-like transitions. 
Relational integration was found to be closely associated with fluid 
intelligence, as measured by Raven's Progressive Matrices. Analyses of 
age-related changes in this association revealed that the relationship was 
strongest during the stabilization periods for each level of relational 
complexity.

PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/a0036655
PMID: 24749552 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


657. Am Psychol. 2014 Apr;69(3):269-84. doi: 10.1037/a0036106.

Psychology and social networks: a dynamic network theory perspective.

Westaby JD(1), Pfaff DL(1), Redding N(1).

Author information:
(1)Program in Social-Organizational Psychology, Teachers College, Columbia 
University.

Research on social networks has grown exponentially in recent years. However, 
despite its relevance, the field of psychology has been relatively slow to 
explain the underlying goal pursuit and resistance processes influencing social 
networks in the first place. In this vein, this article aims to demonstrate how 
a dynamic network theory perspective explains the way in which social networks 
influence these processes and related outcomes, such as goal achievement, 
performance, learning, and emotional contagion at the interpersonal level of 
analysis. The theory integrates goal pursuit, motivation, and conflict 
conceptualizations from psychology with social network concepts from sociology 
and organizational science to provide a taxonomy of social network role 
behaviors, such as goal striving, system supporting, goal preventing, system 
negating, and observing. This theoretical perspective provides psychologists 
with new tools to map social networks (e.g., dynamic network charts), which can 
help inform the development of change interventions. Implications for social, 
industrial-organizational, and counseling psychology as well as conflict 
resolution are discussed, and new opportunities for research are highlighted, 
such as those related to dynamic network intelligence (also known as cognitive 
accuracy), levels of analysis, methodological/ethical issues, and the need to 
theoretically broaden the study of social networking and social media behavior. 
(PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/a0036106
PMID: 24750076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


658. J Psychiatr Res. 2014 Aug;55:68-76. doi: 10.1016/j.jpsychires.2014.03.022. Epub 
2014 Apr 12.

Cognitive task performance and symptoms contribute to personality abnormalities 
in first hospitalized schizophrenia.

Gurrera RJ(1), McCarley RW(2), Salisbury D(3).

Author information:
(1)VA Boston Healthcare System, Boston, MA, USA; Harvard Medical School, 
Department of Psychiatry, Boston, MA, USA. Electronic address: 
ronald.gurrera@va.gov.
(2)VA Boston Healthcare System, Boston, MA, USA; Harvard Medical School, 
Department of Psychiatry, Boston, MA, USA.
(3)McLean Hospital, Belmont, MA, USA; Harvard Medical School, Department of 
Psychiatry, Boston, MA, USA.

Chronic schizophrenia patients have personality abnormalities and cognitive 
deficits that are associated with poor clinical, social, and vocational 
outcomes. Very few studies have examined relationships between personality and 
cognitive function, and chronic illness effects may have confounded those 
studies. In this study personality traits in clinically stable first episode 
schizophrenia patients (21M, 9F) and psychiatrically healthy controls (38M, 24F) 
were measured with the NEO-FFI, a self-report measure of neuroticism, 
extraversion, openness, agreeableness, and conscientiousness. All subjects 
completed the Information, Digit Span, Vocabulary, and Digit Symbol subtests of 
the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale; and Trails A and B. Standard statistical 
techniques were used to quantify relationships between personality and symptom 
levels and/or task performance, and relative contributions of diagnosis and task 
performance to personality variance. Patients showed elevated mean neuroticism 
and openness, and reduced mean extraversion, agreeableness and 
conscientiousness. Task performance and negative symptoms contributed 
significantly and uniquely to most personality dimensions in patients. Task 
performance accounted for significant amounts of personality variance even after 
accounting for diagnosis, and it also contributed to personality variance in 
controls. These results suggest that cognitive deficits and negative symptoms 
contribute to consistently observed personality abnormalities in this disorder, 
and that the contribution of neuropsychological performance to personality 
variance may be independent of diagnostic classification. Personality 
abnormalities in schizophrenia may stem from the neurocognitive deficits 
associated with this disorder, and add to their adverse effects on social and 
vocational functioning.

Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpsychires.2014.03.022
PMCID: PMC4091048
PMID: 24750960 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


659. Assessment. 2015 Feb;22(1):17-22. doi: 10.1177/1073191114530776. Epub 2014 Apr 
21.

Clinical utility of the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Fourth Edition after 
traumatic brain injury.

Donders J(1), Strong CA(2).

Author information:
(1)Mary Free Bed Rehabilitation Hospital, Grand Rapids, MI, USA 
jacobus.donders@maryfreebed.com.
(2)Mary Free Bed Rehabilitation Hospital, Grand Rapids, MI, USA.

The performance of 100 patients with traumatic brain injury (TBI) on the 
Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Fourth Edition (WAIS-IV) was compared with 
that of 100 demographically matched neurologically healthy controls. Processing 
Speed was the only WAIS-IV factor index that was able to discriminate between 
persons with moderate-severe TBI on the one hand and persons with either less 
severe TBI or neurologically healthy controls on the other hand. The Processing 
Speed index also had acceptable sensitivity and specificity when differentiating 
between patients with TBI who either did or did not have scores in the 
clinically significant range on the Trail Making Test. It is concluded that 
WAIS-IV Processing Speed has acceptable clinical utility in the evaluation of 
patients with moderate-severe TBI but that it should be supplemented with other 
measures to assure sufficient accuracy in the diagnostic process.

© The Author(s) 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/1073191114530776
PMID: 24752385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


660. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2014 Apr 21;2014(4):CD003959. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD003959.pub3.

Higher versus lower protein intake in formula-fed low birth weight infants.

Fenton TR(1), Premji SS, Al-Wassia H, Sauve RS.

Author information:
(1)Alberta Children's Hospital Research Institute, Department of Community 
Health Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, University of Calgary, Calgary, Canada.

Update in
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2020 Jun 23;6:CD003959.

Update of
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2006;(1):CD003959.

BACKGROUND: The ideal quantity of dietary protein for formula-fed low birth 
weight infants is still a matter of debate. Protein intake must be sufficient to 
achieve normal growth without negative effects such as acidosis, uremia, and 
elevated levels of circulating amino acids.
OBJECTIVES: To determine whether higher (≥ 3.0 g/kg/d) versus lower (< 3.0 
g/kg/d) protein intake during the initial hospital stay of formula-fed preterm 
infants or low birth weight infants (< 2.5 kilograms) results in improved growth 
and neurodevelopmental outcomes without evidence of short- and long-term 
morbidity.To examine the following distinctions in protein intake. 1. Low 
protein intake if the amount was less than 3.0 g/kg/d. 2. High protein intake if 
the amount was equal to or greater than 3.0 g/kg/d but less than 4.0 g/kg/d. 3. 
Very high protein intake if the amount was equal to or greater than 4.0 
g/kg/d.If the reviewed studies combined alterations of protein and energy, 
subgroup analyses were to be carried out for the planned categories of protein 
intake according to the following predefined energy intake categories. 1. Low 
energy intake: less than 105 kcal/kg/d. 2. Medium energy intake: greater than or 
equal to 105 kcal/kg/d and less than or equal to 135 kcal/kg/d. 3. High energy 
intake: greater than 135 kcal/kg/d.As the Ziegler-Fomon reference fetus 
estimates different protein requirements for infants based on birth weight, 
subgroup analyses were to be undertaken for the following birth weight 
categories. 1. < 800 grams. 2. 800 to 1199 grams. 3. 1200 to 1799 grams. 4. 1800 
to 2499 grams.
SEARCH METHODS: The standard search methods of the Cochrane Neonatal Review 
Group were used. MEDLINE, CINAHL, PubMed, EMBASE, and the Cochrane Central 
Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL; The Cochrane Library) were searched.
SELECTION CRITERIA: Randomized controlled trials contrasting levels of formula 
protein intake as low (< 3.0 g/kg/d), high (≥ 3.0 g/kg/d but < 4.0 g/kg/d), or 
very high (≥ 4.0 g/kg/d) in formula-fed hospitalized neonates weighing less than 
2.5 kilograms were included. Studies were excluded if infants received partial 
parenteral nutrition during the study period or were fed formula as a supplement 
to human milk. Studies in which nutrients other than protein also varied were 
added in a post-facto analysis.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: The standard methods of the Cochrane Neonatal 
Review Group were used.
MAIN RESULTS: Five studies compared low versus high protein intake. Improved 
weight gain and higher nitrogen accretion were demonstrated in infants receiving 
formula with higher protein content while other nutrients were kept constant. No 
significant differences were seen in rates of necrotizing enterocolitis, sepsis, 
or diarrhea.One study compared high versus very high protein intake during and 
after an initial hospital stay. Very high protein intake promoted improved gain 
in length at term, but differences did not remain significant at 12 weeks 
corrected age. Three of the 24 infants receiving very high protein intake 
developed uremia.A post-facto analysis revealed further improvement in all 
growth parameters in infants receiving formula with higher protein content. No 
significant difference in the concentration of plasma phenylalanine was noted 
between high and low protein intake groups. However, one study (Goldman 1969) 
documented a significantly increased incidence of low intelligence quotient (IQ) 
scores among infants of birth weight less than 1300 grams who received a very 
high protein intake (6 to 7.2 g/kg).
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Higher protein intake (≥ 3.0 g/kg/d but < 4.0 g/kg/d) from 
formula accelerates weight gain. However, limited information is available 
regarding the impact of higher formula protein intake on long-term outcomes such 
as neurodevelopmental abnormalities. Available evidence is not adequate to 
permit specific recommendations regarding the provision of very high protein 
intake (> 4.0 g/kg/d) from formula during the initial hospital stay or after 
discharge.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD003959.pub3
PMCID: PMC7104240
PMID: 24752987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None.


661. Ann Indian Acad Neurol. 2014 Jan;17(1):43-7. doi: 10.4103/0972-2327.128547.

Clinical characteristics and long-term outcome of surgery for hypothalamic 
hamartoma in children with refractory epilepsy.

Jayalakshmi S(1), Panigrahi M(2), Reddy R(2), Somayajula S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Krishna Institute of Medical Sciences, Secunderabad, 
Andhra Pradesh, India.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, Krishna Institute of Medical Sciences, 
Secunderabad, Andhra Pradesh, India.

CONTEXT: Hypothalamic hamartomas (HH) are ectopic masses of neuronal and glial 
tissue most commonly presenting with medically refractory gelastic seizures with 
evolution to other seizure types. They are also associated with cognitive and 
behavioral problems to varying extent. Surgery has been found to improve quality 
of life in more than 50% of patients.
AIM: To evaluate the clinical characteristics and long-term outcome of surgery 
in children with HH and refractory epilepsy.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A retrospective analysis of presurgical, surgical, and 
postsurgical data of six children who underwent surgery for HH and had at least 
3 years follow-up was performed.
RESULTS: SIX CHILDREN (MALE: female = 5:1) aged 3-16 years (at the time of 
surgery) underwent surgical resection of HH for refractory epilepsy. At last 
follow-up (range 3-9 years), three children were in Engel's class I, two in 
Class II, and one in class III outcome. Significant improvement in behavior, 
quality of life was noted in four children; while the change in intelligence 
quotient (IQ) was marginal.
CONCLUSIONS: Medically refractory epilepsy associated with behavioral and 
cognitive dysfunction is the most common presentation of HH. Open surgical 
resection is safe with favorable outcome of epilepsy in 50% with significant 
improvement in behavior and marginal change in cognitive functions.

DOI: 10.4103/0972-2327.128547
PMCID: PMC3992768
PMID: 24753658

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: Nil


662. Evolution. 2014 Aug;68(8):2441-51. doi: 10.1111/evo.12434. Epub 2014 May 22.

Chance, purpose, and progress in evolution and christianity.

Mix LJ(1), Masel J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology, Harvard University, 26 
Oxford St., Cambridge, Massachusetts, 02138.

Evolutionary biology has a complex relationship with ideas of chance, purpose, 
and progress. Probability plays a subtle role; strikingly, founding figures in 
statistics were motivated by evolutionary questions. The findings of 
evolutionary biology have been used both in support of narratives of progress, 
and in their deconstruction. Likewise, professional biologists bring to their 
scientific work a set of preconceptions about chance and progress, grounded in 
their philosophical, religious, and/or political views. From the religious side, 
questions of purpose are ever-present. We explore this interplay in five broad 
categories: chance, progress, intelligence, eugenics, and the evolution of 
religious practices, each the subject of a semester long symposium. The 
intellectual influence of evolutionary biology has had a broad societal impact 
in these areas. Based on our experience, we draw attention to a number of 
relevant facts that, while accepted by experts in their respective fields, may 
be unfamiliar outside them. We list common areas of miscommunication, including 
specific examples and discussing causes: sometimes semantics and sometimes more 
substantive knowledge barriers. We also make recommendations for those 
attempting similar dialogue.

© 2014 The Author(s). Evolution © 2014 The Society for the Study of Evolution.

DOI: 10.1111/evo.12434
PMID: 24754485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


663. Br J Psychol. 2014 May;105(2):187-99. doi: 10.1111/bjop.12033. Epub 2013 May 15.

Sub-threshold autism traits: the role of trait emotional intelligence and 
cognitive flexibility.

Gökçen E(1), Petrides KV, Hudry K, Frederickson N, Smillie LD.

Author information:
(1)London Psychometric Laboratory, University College London, UK.

Theory and research suggests that features of autism are not restricted to 
individuals diagnosed with autism spectrum disorders (ASDs), and that 
autism-like traits vary throughout the general population at lower severities. 
The present research first investigated the relationship of autism traits with 
trait emotional intelligence and empathy in a sample of 163 adults aged between 
18 and 51 years (44% male). It then examined performance on a set of tasks 
assessing social cognition and cognitive flexibility in 69 participants with 
either high or low scores on ASD traits. Results confirm that there is 
pronounced variation within the general population relating to ASD traits, which 
reflect similar (though less severe) social-cognitive and emotional features to 
those observed in ASDs.

© 2013 The British Psychological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/bjop.12033
PMCID: PMC4209115
PMID: 24754807 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


664. Br J Psychol. 2014 May;105(2):243-53. doi: 10.1111/bjop.12031. Epub 2013 Apr 17.

Intelligence, gender, and assessment method affect the accuracy of 
self-estimated intelligence.

von Stumm S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Goldsmiths University of London, UK.

Self-estimates of intelligence (SEI), which influence to what extent people 
engage in and how well they perform at a task, are subject to distortion. Here, 
the distortion effects of individual differences in intelligence (IQ), gender, 
and proximal (with reference to test performance) and distal (with reference to 
IQ score distributions) assessments of SEI were tested in a sample of 200 
British adults. The results showed that (1) people with lower IQ misestimated 
their SEI to a greater extent than people with high IQ; (2) this effect was more 
pronounced in distal than proximal measures of SEI; (3) SEI means did not differ 
significantly across gender but the IQ-related level of SEI distortion did; (4) 
this effect was greater for distal than proximal measurement; and (5) proximal 
SEI were on average less distorted than distal SEI scores and also correlated 
more closely with IQ. Overall, the findings suggest that the distal SEI 
assessment method resulted in greater gender- and IQ-related distortions of SEI.

© 2013 The British Psychological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/bjop.12031
PMID: 24754811 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


665. BMC Geriatr. 2014 Apr 23;14:53. doi: 10.1186/1471-2318-14-53.

Patterns and associates of cognitive function, psychosocial wellbeing and health 
in the Lothian Birth Cohort 1936.

Zammit AR, Starr JM, Johnson W, Deary IJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Cognitive Aging and Cognitive Epidemiology, Department of 
Psychology, University of Edinburgh, 7 George Square, Edinburgh EH8 9JZ, 
Scotland, UK. I.Deary@ed.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: Cognitive function, psychosocial wellbeing and health are important 
domains of function. Consistencies and inconsistencies in patterns of wellbeing 
across these domains may be informative about wellbeing in old age and the ways 
it is manifested amongst individuals. In this study we investigated whether 
there were groups of individuals with different profiles of scores across these 
domains. We also aimed to identify characteristics of any evident groups by 
comparing them on variables that were not used in identifying the groups.
METHODS: The sample was the Lothian Birth Cohort 1936, which included 1091 
participants born in 1936. They are a community-dwelling, narrow-age-range 
sample of 70-year-olds. Most had taken part in the Scottish Mental Survey 1947 
at an average age of 11, making available a measure of childhood intelligence. 
We used latent class analysis (LCA) to explore possible profiles using 9 
variables indicating cognitive functioning, psychosocial wellbeing and health 
status. Demographic, personality, and lifestyle variables - none of which were 
used in the LCA - were used to characterize the resulting profile groups.
RESULTS: We accepted a 3-group solution, which we labeled High Wellbeing 
(65.3%), Low Cognition (20.3%), and Low Bio-Psychosocial (14.5%). Notably, the 
High Wellbeing group had significantly higher childhood IQ, lower Neuroticism 
scores, and a lower percentage of current smokers than the other 2 groups.
CONCLUSION: The majority of individuals were functioning generally well; 
however, there was evidence of the presence of groups with different profiles, 
which may be explained in part in terms of cognitive ability differences. 
Results suggested that higher life-long intelligence, personality traits 
associated with less mental distress, and basic health practices such as 
avoiding smoking are important associates of wellbeing in old age.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2318-14-53
PMCID: PMC3999738
PMID: 24754844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


666. Nat Commun. 2014 Apr 22;5:3679. doi: 10.1038/ncomms4679.

Ravens notice dominance reversals among conspecifics within and outside their 
social group.

Massen JJ(1), Pašukonis A(1), Schmidt J(1), Bugnyar T(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cognitive Biology, University of Vienna, Althanstrasse 14, Wien 
1090, Austria.
(2)1] Department of Cognitive Biology, University of Vienna, Althanstrasse 14, 
Wien 1090, Austria [2] Haidlhof Research Station, University of Vienna and 
University of Veterinary Medicine, Vienna, Wien 1090, Austria.

A core feature of social intelligence is the understanding of third-party 
relations, which has been experimentally demonstrated in primates. Whether other 
social animals also have this capacity, and whether they can use this capacity 
flexibly to, for example, also assess the relations of neighbouring 
conspecifics, remains unknown. Here we show that ravens react differently to 
playbacks of dominance interactions that either confirm or violate the current 
rank hierarchy of members in their own social group and of ravens in a 
neighbouring group. Therefore, ravens understand third-party relations and may 
deduce those not only via physical interactions but also by observation.

DOI: 10.1038/ncomms4679
PMCID: PMC3997804
PMID: 24755739 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


667. PLoS One. 2014 Apr 22;9(4):e95789. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0095789. 
eCollection 2014.

Human collective intelligence under dual exploration-exploitation dilemmas.

Toyokawa W(1), Kim HR(2), Kameda T(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Behavioral Science, Hokkaido University, Sapporo, Hokkaido, 
Japan; Japan Society for the Promotion of Science, Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Department of Behavioral Science, Hokkaido University, Sapporo, Hokkaido, 
Japan.
(3)Department of Behavioral Science, Hokkaido University, Sapporo, Hokkaido, 
Japan; Center for Experimental Research in Social Sciences, Hokkaido University, 
Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan.

The exploration-exploitation dilemma is a recurrent adaptive problem for humans 
as well as non-human animals. Given a fixed time/energy budget, every individual 
faces a fundamental trade-off between exploring for better resources and 
exploiting known resources to optimize overall performance under uncertainty. 
Colonies of eusocial insects are known to solve this dilemma successfully via 
evolved coordination mechanisms that function at the collective level. For 
humans and other non-eusocial species, however, this dilemma operates within 
individuals as well as between individuals, because group members may be 
motivated to take excessive advantage of others' exploratory findings through 
social learning. Thus, even though social learning can reduce collective 
exploration costs, the emergence of disproportionate "information scroungers" 
may severely undermine its potential benefits. We investigated experimentally 
whether social learning opportunities might improve the performance of human 
participants working on a "multi-armed bandit" problem in groups, where they 
could learn about each other's past choice behaviors. Results showed that, even 
though information scroungers emerged frequently in groups, social learning 
opportunities reduced total group exploration time while increasing harvesting 
from better options, and consequentially improved collective performance. 
Surprisingly, enriching social information by allowing participants to observe 
others' evaluations of chosen options (e.g., Amazon's 5-star rating system) in 
addition to choice-frequency information had a detrimental impact on performance 
compared to the simpler situation with only the choice-frequency information. 
These results indicate that humans groups can handle the fundamental "dual 
exploration-exploitation dilemmas" successfully, and that social learning about 
simple choice-frequencies can help produce collective intelligence.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0095789
PMCID: PMC3995913
PMID: 24755892 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


668. Appl Biochem Biotechnol. 2014 Jul;173(5):1083-96. doi: 
10.1007/s12010-014-0912-4. Epub 2014 Apr 23.

Modeling the kinetics of complex systems: enzymatic hydrolysis of 
lignocellulosic substrates.

Suarez CA(1), Cavalcanti-Montaño ID, da Costa Marques RG, Furlan FF, da Mota e 
Aquino PL, de Campos Giordano R, de Sousa R Jr.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, Federal University of São Carlos, Rod. 
Washington Luís, Km 235,CP 676, 13565-905, São Carlos, SP, Brazil.

Lignocellulosic biomass is mainly composed of cellulose, hemicellulose, and 
lignin. Fuzzy logic, in turn, is a branch of many-valued logic based on the 
paradigm of inference under vagueness. This paper presents a methodology, based 
on computational intelligence, for modeling the kinetics of a complex reactional 
system. The design of a fuzzy interpolator to model cellulose hydrolysis is 
reported, within the perspective of applying kinetic models in bioreactor 
engineering. Experimental data for various types of lignocellulosic materials 
were used to develop the interpolator. New experimental data from the enzymatic 
hydrolysis of a synthetic substrate, on the other hand, were used to validate 
the methodology. The accuracy of the results indicates that this is a promising 
approach to extend the application of models fitted for specific situations to 
different cases, thus enhancing their generality.

DOI: 10.1007/s12010-014-0912-4
PMID: 24756607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


669. Arthritis Rheumatol. 2014 Aug;66(8):2290-6. doi: 10.1002/art.38675.

Prenatal anti-Ro antibody exposure, congenital complete atrioventricular heart 
block, and high-dose steroid therapy: impact on neurocognitive outcome in 
school-age children.

Kelly EN(1), Sananes R, Chiu-Man C, Silverman ED, Jaeggi E.

Author information:
(1)Mount Sinai Hospital, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the impact of prenatal exposure to maternal anti-Ro 
antibodies, slow fetal heart rate, and/or prolonged dexamethasone therapy for 
immune-mediated congenital atrioventricular heart block (CAVB) on the cognitive 
and academic performance of these children at school age.
METHODS: We performed a prospective, blinded assessment of the cognitive 
functioning of 3 cohorts of children ages 6-16 years with in utero exposure to 
maternal anti-Ro antibodies in the following groups: no CAVB and no prenatal 
dexamethasone treatment (n = 14), CAVB without prenatal treatment (n = 10), and 
CAVB with prenatal dexamethasone treatment (n = 16). Domains assessed included 
intelligence, visual perceptual and visual motor skills, auditory and visual 
attention, verbal learning and memory, visual memory, executive function, and 
behavior.
RESULTS: All cohorts scored within the normal range and were not significantly 
different in terms of intelligence scores, verbal comprehension, perceptional 
reasoning, working memory, and processing speed. For children with CAVB who were 
treated prenatally, there were no significant associations between the 
neurocognitive function scores, the minimal fetal heart rate (range 47-80 beats 
per minute), and either the duration (range 2-15 weeks) or dosage (range 56-824 
mg) of dexamethasone therapy.
CONCLUSION: CAVB and transplacental treatment with dexamethasone was not 
associated with neurocognitive impairment in school-age children. Larger numbers 
of children are needed to validate our observation, and assessment of other 
cognitive abilities is warranted.

Copyright © 2014 by the American College of Rheumatology.

DOI: 10.1002/art.38675
PMID: 24756962 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


670. J Geriatr Psychiatry Neurol. 2014 Dec;27(4):266-75. doi: 
10.1177/0891988714532020. Epub 2014 Apr 22.

Neuropsychological and neuropsychiatric prediction of global cognitive status 
among older Spanish-speaking Hispanics and English-speaking whites.

Guerrero-Berroa E(1), Kluger A(2), Schmeidler J(3), Sailor K(4), Lizardi H(4), 
Golomb J(5), Ferris S(5), Reisberg B(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, 
NY, USA elizabeth.guerrero-berroa@mssm.edu.
(2)Department of Psychology, Lehman College/City University of New York, New 
York, NY, USA Alzheimer's Disease Center, Comprehensive Center on Brain Aging, 
New York University Langone Medical Center, New York, NY, USA.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, 
NY, USA.
(4)Department of Psychology, Lehman College/City University of New York, New 
York, NY, USA.
(5)Alzheimer's Disease Center, Comprehensive Center on Brain Aging, New York 
University Langone Medical Center, New York, NY, USA.

BACKGROUND: Neuropsychological and depression measures have been found to 
predict cognitive functioning. We compared these associations among whites and 
Spanish-speaking Hispanics.
METHODS: Fifty-two pairs of whites and Hispanics were matched demographically 
and clinically in a cross-sectional study. Hierarchical regression analyses 
predicted Global Deterioration Scale (GDS) rating by baseline neuropsychological 
tests and depression symptoms.
RESULTS: Neuropsychological tests predicted GDS better in whites; depression 
symptoms--specifically retardation--predicted well in Hispanics but not whites. 
Immediate recall of the New York University (NYU)-Paragraph Test and the 
Retardation item of the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale were associated with 
GDS in Hispanics and delayed recall of the NYU-Paragraph Test and Wechsler Adult 
Intelligence Scale-Digit Symbol in whites. Neuropsychological tests and 
depression symptoms predicted GDS differently in Hispanics and whites.
DISCUSSION: These results suggest that other measures should be considered to 
increase the predictive accuracy of neuropsychological tests when assessing 
cognitive status in Spanish-speaking Hispanics. Additional studies of specific 
ethnic/racial and sociodemographic subgroups are warranted.

© The Author(s) 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/0891988714532020
PMCID: PMC4465291
PMID: 24759088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


671. PLoS One. 2014 Apr 23;9(4):e96041. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0096041. 
eCollection 2014.

Fluoride and arsenic exposure impairs learning and memory and decreases mGluR5 
expression in the hippocampus and cortex in rats.

Jiang S(1), Su J(2), Yao S(2), Zhang Y(2), Cao F(3), Wang F(4), Wang H(4), Li 
J(2), Xi S(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Occupational and Environmental Health, Liaoning Provincial Key 
Lab of Arsenic Biological Effect and Poisoning, School of Public Health, China 
Medical University, Shenyang, Liaoning, P. R. China; Department of Occupational 
and Environmental Health, Hebei Province Key Laboratory of Occupational Health 
and Safety for Coal Industry, School of Public Health, Hebei United University, 
Tangshan, Hebei, P. R. China.
(2)Department of Occupational and Environmental Health, Hebei Province Key 
Laboratory of Occupational Health and Safety for Coal Industry, School of Public 
Health, Hebei United University, Tangshan, Hebei, P. R. China.
(3)Laboratory Animal Center, Hebei United University, Tangshan, Hebei, P. R. 
China.
(4)Department of Occupational and Environmental Health, Liaoning Provincial Key 
Lab of Arsenic Biological Effect and Poisoning, School of Public Health, China 
Medical University, Shenyang, Liaoning, P. R. China.

Fluoride and arsenic are two common inorganic contaminants in drinking water 
that are associated with impairment in child development and retarded 
intelligence. The present study was conducted to explore the effects on spatial 
learning, memory, glutamate levels, and group I metabotropic glutamate receptors 
(mGluRs) expression in the hippocampus and cortex after subchronic exposure to 
fluoride, arsenic, and a fluoride and arsenic combination in rats. Weaned male 
Sprague-Dawley rats were assigned to four groups. The control rats drank tap 
water. Rats in the three exposure groups drank water with sodium fluoride (120 
mg/L), sodium arsenite (70 mg/L), and a sodium fluoride (120 mg/L) and sodium 
arsenite (70 mg/L) combination for 3 months. Spatial learning and memory was 
measured in Morris water maze. mGluR1 and mGluR5 mRNA and protein expression in 
the hippocampus and cortex was detected using RT-PCR and Western blot, 
respectively. Compared with controls, learning and memory ability declined in 
rats that were exposed to fluoride and arsenic both alone and combined. Combined 
fluoride and arsenic exposure did not have a more pronounced effect on spatial 
learning and memory compared with arsenic and fluoride exposure alone. Compared 
with controls, glutamate levels decreased in the hippocampus and cortex of rats 
exposed to fluoride and combined fluoride and arsenic, and in cortex of 
arsenic-exposed rats. mGluR5 mRNA and protein expressions in the hippocampus and 
mGluR5 protein expression in the cortex decreased in rats exposed to arsenic 
alone. Interestingly, compared with fluoride and arsenic exposure alone, 
fluoride and arsenic combination decreased mGluR5 mRNA expression in the cortex 
and protein expression in the hippocampus, suggesting a synergistic effect of 
fluoride and arsenic. These data indicate that fluoride and arsenic, either 
alone or combined, can decrease learning and memory ability in rats. The 
mechanism may be associated with changes of glutamate level and mGluR5 
expression in cortex and hippocampus.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0096041
PMCID: PMC3997496
PMID: 24759735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


672. Arq Neuropsiquiatr. 2014 Apr;72(4):283-8. doi: 10.1590/0004-282x20140001.

Developmental dyscalculia in children and adolescents with idiopathic epilepsies 
in a Brazilian sample.

Thomé U(1), Paixão Alves SR(1), Guerreiro SM(1), Machado da Costa CR(2), Souza 
Moreira Fd(1), Bandeira Lima A(1), Ferreira Tavares MR(1), Souza Maia Filho 
H(3).

Author information:
(1)Universidade Federal Fluminense, Niterói, RJ, Brazil.
(2)Instituto de Psiquiatria, Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro, Rio de 
Janeiro, RJ, Brazil.
(3)Unidade de Pesquisa Clínica, Departamento Materno Infantil, Universidade 
Federal Fluminense, Niterói, RJ, Brazil.

Epilepsy is one of the most prevalent chronic disorders of childhood which can 
threaten child development and mental health. Among cognitive disorders, 
dyscalculia is one of the most important. In this study, 39 children and 
adolescents with idiopathic epilepsy underwent clinical and neuropsychological 
assessment to determine the intellectual level, math skills, reading and writing 
performance and neuropsychological profile. It was observed that the 
mathematical ability was below schooling expectations in a higher frequency than 
expected. There were no significant differences in mathematical performance 
among groups divided by number of antiepileptic drugs used, duration of disease 
and types and frequency of seizures. There was a positive correlation with 
intelligence quotient and attentional and reading level. These results suggest 
the existence not only of dyscalculia, but the concurrence of attentional and 
reading problems for the poor mathematical performance in this population.

DOI: 10.1590/0004-282x20140001
PMID: 24760092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


673. Euro Surveill. 2014 Apr 17;19(15):20770. doi: 
10.2807/1560-7917.es2014.19.15.20770.

Infectious diseases prioritisation for event-based surveillance at the European 
Union level for the 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games.

Economopoulou A(1), Kinross P, Domanovic D, Coulombier D.

Author information:
(1)European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, (ECDC), Stockholm, 
Sweden.

In 2012, London hosted the Olympic and Paralympic Games (the Games), with events 
occurring throughout the United Kingdom (UK) between 27 July and 9 September 
2012. Public health surveillance was performed by the Health Protection Agency 
(HPA). Collaboration between the HPA and the European Centre for Disease 
Prevention and Control (ECDC) was established for the detection and assessment 
of significant infectious disease events (SIDEs) occurring outside the UK during 
the time of the Games. Additionally, ECDC undertook an internal prioritisation 
exercise to facilitate ECDC’s decisions on which SIDEs should have 
preferentially enhanced monitoring through epidemic intelligence activities for 
detection and reporting in daily surveillance in the European Union (EU). A team 
of ECDC experts evaluated potential public health risks to the Games, selecting 
and prioritising SIDEs for event-based surveillance with regard to their 
potential for importation to the Games, occurrence during the Games or export to 
the EU/European Economic Area from the Games. The team opted for a multilevel 
approach including comprehensive disease selection, development and use of a 
qualitative matrix scoring system and a Delphi method for disease 
prioritisation. The experts selected 71 infectious diseases to enter the 
prioritisation exercise of which 27 were considered as priority for epidemic 
intelligence activities by ECDC for the EU for the Games.

DOI: 10.2807/1560-7917.es2014.19.15.20770
PMID: 24762663 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


674. Lupus. 2014 May;23(6):507-17. doi: 10.1177/0961203313501402.

The effects of lupus and antiphospholipid antibody syndrome on foetal outcomes.

Nalli C(1), Iodice A, Andreoli L, Lojacono A, Motta M, Fazzi E, Tincani A.

Author information:
(1)1Rheumatology and Clinical Immunology, Department of Clinical and 
Experimental Sciences, Spedali Civili and University of Brescia, Italy.

Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a multi-organ autoimmune disease that 
primarily affects women of childbearing-age. Antiphospholipid syndrome (APS) is 
a systemic autoimmune disorder defined by the occurrence of venous and arterial 
thrombosis, often multiple, and pregnancy morbidity in the presence of 
antiphospholipid antibodies (aPL). Recently, the long-term outcome of children 
born to patients with lupus and APS has become a major topic of interest both to 
patients and physicians. One of the major problems related to maternal disease 
is preterm delivery with all the consequences that this condition may bring. 
Prematurity may also be due to the presence of aPL; however, aPL do not 
generally display any thrombotic potential on neonates. Another complication may 
be neonatal lupus (NL), mediated by the presence of maternal antibodies 
(anti-Ro/SSA and anti-La/SSB). In addition, behaviour and neuropsychological 
outcomes have also been a matter of interest, but there are currently few data 
available. Beyond the biological influence of both maternal disease and 
autoimmune background, it is important to focus on the possible influence of 
maternal chronic illness on the neuropsychological development of her children. 
Whether aPL exposure could have a direct effect on brain development is still 
being debated. In children of mothers with APS, language delays have been noted 
and learning disabilities were described with a higher rate than the general 
age-school population. Several studies were performed on children born to lupus 
mothers: even if maternal lupus does not seem to impair intelligence levels, it 
may increase the occurrence of learning disabilities and particularly dyslexia 
in male children. To the best of our knowledge, no studies are available on the 
long-term outcome of children born to mothers with lupus or APS and particularly 
regarding the development of autoimmune diseases. Nevertheless, common 
experience of experts in the field is that these children do not show a 
significantly increased risk of displaying the same autoimmune disease as their 
mothers. The purpose of this paper is to answer the frequently asked questions 
of patients with lupus and APS who desire to become mothers, based on the little 
information available.

DOI: 10.1177/0961203313501402
PMID: 24763535 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


675. BMJ Qual Saf. 2014 Aug;23(8):670-7. doi: 10.1136/bmjqs-2013-002757. Epub 2014 
Apr 24.

Safety measurement and monitoring in healthcare: a framework to guide clinical 
teams and healthcare organisations in maintaining safety.

Vincent C(1), Burnett S(2), Carthey J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(2)Imperial Centre for Patient Safety & Service Quality, London, UK.

Patients, clinicians and managers all want to be reassured that their healthcare 
organisation is safe. But there is no consensus about what we mean when we ask 
whether a healthcare organisation is safe or how this is achieved. In the UK, 
the measurement of harm, so important in the evolution of patient safety, has 
been neglected in favour of incident reporting. The use of softer intelligence 
for monitoring and anticipation of problems receives little mention in official 
policy. The Francis Inquiry report into patient treatment at the Mid 
Staffordshire NHS Foundation Trust set out 29 recommendations on measurement, 
more than on any other topic, and set the measurement of safety an absolute 
priority for healthcare organisations. The Berwick review found that most 
healthcare organisations at present have very little capacity to analyse, 
monitor or learn from safety and quality information. This paper summarises the 
findings of a more extensive report and proposes a framework which can guide 
clinical teams and healthcare organisations in the measurement and monitoring of 
safety and in reviewing progress against safety objectives. The framework has 
been used so far to promote self-reflection at both board and clinical team 
level, to stimulate an organisational check or analysis in the gaps of 
information and to promote discussion of 'what could we do differently'.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not 
already granted under a licence) please go to 
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjqs-2013-002757
PMCID: PMC4112428
PMID: 24764136 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


676. Br J Sports Med. 2014 May;48(10):801-6. doi: 10.1136/bjsports-2014-093561. Epub 
2014 Apr 24.

Time for change: a roadmap to guide the implementation of the World Anti-Doping 
Code 2015.

Dvorak J(1), Baume N, Botré F, Broséus J, Budgett R, Frey WO, Geyer H, Harcourt 
PR, Ho D, Howman D, Isola V, Lundby C, Marclay F, Peytavin A, Pipe A, Pitsiladis 
YP, Reichel C, Robinson N, Rodchenkov G, Saugy M, Sayegh S, Segura J, Thevis M, 
Vernec A, Viret M, Vouillamoz M, Zorzoli M.

Author information:
(1)FIFA/F-MARC FIFA-Strasse, , Zurich, Switzerland.

A medical and scientific multidisciplinary consensus meeting was held from 29 to 
30 November 2013 on Anti-Doping in Sport at the Home of FIFA in Zurich, 
Switzerland, to create a roadmap for the implementation of the 2015 World 
Anti-Doping Code. The consensus statement and accompanying papers set out the 
priorities for the antidoping community in research, science and medicine. The 
participants achieved consensus on a strategy for the implementation of the 2015 
World Anti-Doping Code. Key components of this strategy include: (1) 
sport-specific risk assessment, (2) prevalence measurement, (3) sport-specific 
test distribution plans, (4) storage and reanalysis, (5) analytical challenges, 
(6) forensic intelligence, (7) psychological approach to optimise the most 
deterrent effect, (8) the Athlete Biological Passport (ABP) and confounding 
factors, (9) data management system (Anti-Doping Administration & Management 
System (ADAMS), (10) education, (11) research needs and necessary advances, (12) 
inadvertent doping and (13) management and ethics: biological data. True 
implementation of the 2015 World Anti-Doping Code will depend largely on the 
ability to align thinking around these core concepts and strategies. FIFA, 
jointly with all other engaged International Federations of sports (Ifs), the 
International Olympic Committee (IOC) and World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA), are 
ideally placed to lead transformational change with the unwavering support of 
the wider antidoping community. The outcome of the consensus meeting was the 
creation of the ad hoc Working Group charged with the responsibility of moving 
this agenda forward.

DOI: 10.1136/bjsports-2014-093561
PMCID: PMC4033186
PMID: 24764550 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


677. Br J Sports Med. 2014 May;48(10):807-9. doi: 10.1136/bjsports-2014-093589.

Challenges and threats to implementing the fight against doping in sport.

Dvorak J(1), Saugy M, Pitsiladis YP.

Author information:
(1)FIFA, , Zürich, Switzerland.

Prominent doping cases in certain sports have recently raised public awareness 
of doping and reinforced the perception that doping is widespread. Efforts to 
deal with doping in sport have intensified in recent years, yet the general 
public believes that the 'cheaters' are ahead of the testers. Therefore, there 
is an urgent need to change the antidoping strategy. For example, the increase 
in the number of individual drug tests conducted between 2005 and 2012 was 
approximately 90 000 and equivalent to an increase of about 50%, yet the number 
of adverse analytical findings remained broadly the same. There is also a 
strikingly different prevalence of doping substances and methods in sports such 
as a 0.03% prevalence of anabolic steroids in football compared to 0.4% in the 
overall WADA statistics. Future efforts in the fight against doping should 
therefore be more heavily based on preventative strategies such as education and 
on the analysis of data and forensic intelligence and also on the experiences of 
relevant stakeholders such as the national antidoping organisations, the 
laboratories, athletes or team physicians and related biomedical support staff. 
This strategy is essential to instigate the change needed to more effectively 
fight doping in sport.

DOI: 10.1136/bjsports-2014-093589
PMID: 24764551 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


678. Scand J Psychol. 2014 Aug;55(4):371-9. doi: 10.1111/sjop.12126. Epub 2014 Apr 
25.

Aggression and prosocial behaviors in social conflicts mediating the influence 
of cold social intelligence and affective empathy on children's social 
preference.

Carreras MR(1), Braza P, Muñoz JM, Braza F, Azurmendi A, Pascual-Sagastizabal E, 
Cardas J, Sánchez-Martín JR.

Author information:
(1)Child Development and Social Risk, Psychology Department, Faculty of Sciences 
of Education, University of Cadiz, Cádiz, Spain.

This study proposes a model in which aggressive and prosocial behaviors 
exhibited in social conflicts mediate the influence of empathy and social 
intelligence to children's social preference by same-sex peers. Data were 
obtained from kindergarten to the end of the first grade. The sample yielded 117 
Spanish children (64 girls and 53 boys) with a mean age of 62.8 months (SD = 
3.3) at the beginning of the study. For boys, affective empathy contributed to 
boys' social preference through a decrease in physical aggression as responses 
to social conflict. For girls, affective empathy had an indirect effect on 
girls' preference by increasing assistance to others in their conflicts. No 
mediating effect in the contribution of social intelligence on girls' social 
preference was detected. Our results suggest that, only for girls, cold social 
intelligence can promote both indirect aggression (coercive strategic that do 
not leave social preference, at least at these ages) and behaviors that lead 
social preference (such as prosocial behaviors).

© 2014 Scandinavian Psychological Associations and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/sjop.12126
PMID: 24766354 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


679. Psychoneuroendocrinology. 2014 Jun;44:20-9. doi: 10.1016/j.psyneuen.2014.02.018. 
Epub 2014 Mar 3.

Basal salivary oxytocin level predicts extra- but not intra-personal dimensions 
of emotional intelligence.

Koven NS(1), Max LK(2).

Author information:
(1)Program in Neuroscience, Department of Psychology, Bates College, 4 Andrews 
Road, Lewiston, ME 04240, USA. Electronic address: nkoven@bates.edu.
(2)Program in Neuroscience, Department of Psychology, Bates College, 4 Andrews 
Road, Lewiston, ME 04240, USA.

A wealth of literature suggests that oxytocin is an important mediator of social 
cognition, but much of the research to date has relied on pharmaceutical 
administration methods that can raise oxytocin to artificially high levels. The 
present study builds upon previous work by examining whether basal oxytocin 
level predicts intra- and extra-personal (i.e., self- and other-focused) 
elements of emotional intelligence (EI), independent of shared variance with 
current mood. The sample included 71 healthy young adults (46 women). Assessment 
measures included the Mayer-Salovey-Caruso Emotional Intelligence Test Version 
2.0 (MSCEIT), the Trait Meta-Mood Scale, and the Profile of Mood States. 
Peripheral oxytocin levels were examined with enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay 
from saliva after solid phase extraction. Oxytocin level was unrelated to TMMS 
scores but was positively associated with performance in the Experiential EI 
domain of the MSCEIT. However, total mood disturbance was positively related to 
MSCEIT scores. Hierarchical regression analysis indicated that oxytocin level 
added unique variance to the prediction of MSCEIT performance beyond that of 
current mood. These results confirm an association between endogenous levels of 
oxytocin in healthy adults and a subset of EI abilities, including 
extra-personal emotion recognition and the channeling of emotions to enhance 
social proficiency.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psyneuen.2014.02.018
PMID: 24767616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


680. Biosystems. 2014 Nov;125:43-54. doi: 10.1016/j.biosystems.2014.04.003. Epub 2014 
Apr 24.

Computational modeling of neural plasticity for self-organization of neural 
networks.

Chrol-Cannon J(1), Jin Y(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Computing, University of Surrey, Guildford GU2 7XH, United 
Kingdom.
(2)Department of Computing, University of Surrey, Guildford GU2 7XH, United 
Kingdom. Electronic address: yaochu.jin@surrey.ac.uk.

Self-organization in biological nervous systems during the lifetime is known to 
largely occur through a process of plasticity that is dependent upon the 
spike-timing activity in connected neurons. In the field of computational 
neuroscience, much effort has been dedicated to building up computational models 
of neural plasticity to replicate experimental data. Most recently, increasing 
attention has been paid to understanding the role of neural plasticity in 
functional and structural neural self-organization, as well as its influence on 
the learning performance of neural networks for accomplishing machine learning 
tasks such as classification and regression. Although many ideas and hypothesis 
have been suggested, the relationship between the structure, dynamics and 
learning performance of neural networks remains elusive. The purpose of this 
article is to review the most important computational models for neural 
plasticity and discuss various ideas about neural plasticity's role. Finally, we 
suggest a few promising research directions, in particular those along the line 
that combines findings in computational neuroscience and systems biology, and 
their synergetic roles in understanding learning, memory and cognition, thereby 
bridging the gap between computational neuroscience, systems biology and 
computational intelligence.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biosystems.2014.04.003
PMID: 24769242 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


681. Anim Cogn. 2014 Sep;17(5):1149-56. doi: 10.1007/s10071-014-0747-y. Epub 2014 Apr 
27.

Wild robins (Petroica longipes) respond to human gaze.

Garland A(1), Low J, Armstrong N, Burns KC.

Author information:
(1)School of Psychology, Victoria University of Wellington, P.O. Box 600, 
Wellington, 6140, New Zealand, Dr.AlexisGarland@gmail.com.

Gaze following and awareness of attentional cues are hallmarks of human and 
non-human social intelligence. Here, we show that the North Island robin 
(Petroica longipes), a food-hoarding songbird endemic to New Zealand, responds 
to human eyes. Robins were presented with six different conditions, in which two 
human experimenters altered the orientation or visibility of their body, head or 
eyes in relation to mealworm prey. One experimenter had visual access to the 
prey, and the second experimenter did not. Robins were then given the 
opportunity to 'steal' one of two mealworms presented by each experimenter. 
Robins responded by preferentially choosing the mealworm in front of the 
experimenter who could not see, in all conditions but one. Robins failed to 
discriminate between experimenters who were facing the mealworm and those who 
had their head turned 90° to the side. This may suggest that robins do not make 
decisions using the same eye visibility cues that primates and corvids evince, 
whether for ecological, experiential or evolutionary reasons.

DOI: 10.1007/s10071-014-0747-y
PMID: 24770885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


682. Brain. 2014 Jun;137(Pt 6):1813-29. doi: 10.1093/brain/awu070. Epub 2014 Apr 25.

Agenesis of the corpus callosum and autism: a comprehensive comparison.

Paul LK(1), Corsello C(2), Kennedy DP(3), Adolphs R(4).

Author information:
(1)1 California Institute of Technology, Division of Humanities and Social 
Sciences, Pasadena, CA, USA lkpaul@hss.caltech.edu.
(2)2 Rady Children's Hospital, San Diego, CA, USA.
(3)1 California Institute of Technology, Division of Humanities and Social 
Sciences, Pasadena, CA, USA3 Indiana University, Department of Psychological and 
Brain Sciences, Bloomington, IN, USA.
(4)1 California Institute of Technology, Division of Humanities and Social 
Sciences, Pasadena, CA, USA4 California Institute of Technology, Division of 
Biology, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, CA, USA.

The corpus callosum, with its ∼200 million axons, remains enigmatic in its 
contribution to cognition and behaviour. Agenesis of the corpus callosum is a 
congenital condition in which the corpus callosum fails to develop; such 
individuals exhibit localized deficits in non-literal language comprehension, 
humour, theory of mind and social reasoning. These findings together with parent 
reports suggest that behavioural and cognitive impairments in subjects with 
callosal agenesis may overlap with the profile of autism spectrum disorders, 
particularly with respect to impairments in social interaction and 
communication. To provide a comprehensive test of this hypothesis, we directly 
compared a group of 26 adults with callosal agenesis to a group of 28 adults 
with a diagnosis of autism spectrum disorder but no neurological abnormality. 
All participants had full-scale intelligence quotient scores >78 and groups were 
matched on age, handedness, and gender ratio. Using the Autism Diagnostic 
Observation Schedule together with current clinical presentation to assess 
autistic symptomatology, we found that 8/26 (about a third) of agenesis subjects 
presented with autism. However, more formal diagnosis additionally involving 
recollective parent-report measures regarding childhood behaviour showed that 
only 3/22 met complete formal criteria for an autism spectrum disorder (parent 
reports were unavailable for four subjects). We found no relationship between 
intelligence quotient and autism symptomatology in callosal agenesis, nor 
evidence that the presence of any residual corpus callosum differentiated those 
who exhibited current autism spectrum symptoms from those who did not. Relative 
to the autism spectrum comparison group, parent ratings of childhood behaviour 
indicated children with agenesis were less likely to meet diagnostic criteria 
for autism, even for those who met autism spectrum criteria as adults, and even 
though there was no group difference in parent report of current behaviours. The 
findings suggest two broad conclusions. First, they support the hypothesis that 
congenital disruption of the corpus callosum constitutes a major risk factor for 
developing autism. Second, they quantify specific features that distinguish 
autistic behaviour associated with callosal agenesis from autism more generally. 
Taken together, these two findings also leverage specific questions for future 
investigation: what are the distal causes (genetic and environmental) 
determining both callosal agenesis and its autistic features, and what are the 
proximal mechanisms by which absence of the callosum might generate autistic 
symptomatology?

© The Author (2014). Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Guarantors of Brain. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please email: 
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/brain/awu070
PMCID: PMC4072909
PMID: 24771497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


683. ScientificWorldJournal. 2014 Mar 18;2014:438782. doi: 10.1155/2014/438782. 
eCollection 2014.

Prediction of the wall factor of arbitrary particle settling through various 
fluid media in a cylindrical tube using artificial intelligence.

Li M(1), Zhang G(1), Xue J(1), Li Y(2), Tang S(3).

Author information:
(1)College of Petroleum Engineering, China University of Petroleum, B405 
Engineering Building, No. 66 Changjiang West Road, Qingdao 266580, China.
(2)Down Hole Company, Chuanqing Drilling Company, CNPC, Chengdu 610051, China.
(3)College of Petroleum Engineering, China University of Petroleum, B405 
Engineering Building, No. 66 Changjiang West Road, Qingdao 266580, China ; 
Dongsheng Group Co., Ltd. of Shengli Oilfield, Dongying 257000, China.

Considering the influence of particle shape and the rheological properties of 
fluid, two artificial intelligence methods (Artificial Neural Network and 
Support Vector Machine) were used to predict the wall factor which is widely 
introduced to deduce the net hydrodynamic drag force of confining boundaries on 
settling particles. 513 data points were culled from the experimental data of 
previous studies, which were divided into training set and test set. Particles 
with various shapes were divided into three kinds: sphere, cylinder, and 
rectangular prism; feature parameters of each kind of particle were extracted; 
prediction models of sphere and cylinder using artificial neural network were 
established. Due to the little number of rectangular prism sample, support 
vector machine was used to predict the wall factor, which is more suitable for 
addressing the problem of small samples. The characteristic dimension was 
presented to describe the shape and size of the diverse particles and a 
comprehensive prediction model of particles with arbitrary shapes was 
established to cover all types of conditions. Comparisons were conducted between 
the predicted values and the experimental results.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/438782
PMCID: PMC3977094
PMID: 24772024 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


684. Front Psychol. 2014 Apr 4;5:272. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.00272. eCollection 
2014.

Predicting first-grade mathematics achievement: the contributions of 
domain-general cognitive abilities, nonverbal number sense, and early number 
competence.

Hornung C(1), Schiltz C(1), Brunner M(2), Martin R(1).

Author information:
(1)Cognitive Science and Assessment, Education, Culture, Cognition and Society, 
University of Luxembourg Luxembourg, Luxembourg.
(2)Department for Educational Science and Psychology, Freie Universität Berlin 
Berlin, Germany.

Early number competence, grounded in number-specific and domain-general 
cognitive abilities, is theorized to lay the foundation for later math 
achievement. Few longitudinal studies have tested a comprehensive model for 
early math development. Using structural equation modeling and mediation 
analyses, the present work examined the influence of kindergarteners' nonverbal 
number sense and domain-general abilities (i.e., working memory, fluid 
intelligence, and receptive vocabulary) and their early number competence (i.e., 
symbolic number skills) on first grade math achievement (i.e., arithmetic, shape 
and space skills, and number line estimation) assessed 1 year later. Latent 
regression models revealed that nonverbal number sense and working memory are 
central building blocks for developing early number competence in kindergarten 
and that early number competence is key for first grade math achievement. After 
controlling for early number competence, fluid intelligence significantly 
predicted arithmetic and number line estimation while receptive vocabulary 
significantly predicted shape and space skills. In sum we suggest that early 
math achievement draws on different constellations of number-specific and 
domain-general mechanisms.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.00272
PMCID: PMC3983481
PMID: 24772098


685. Psychol Assess. 2014 Sep;26(3):774-88. doi: 10.1037/a0036712. Epub 2014 Apr 28.

Developing a fluid intelligence scale through a combination of Rasch modeling 
and cognitive psychology.

Primi R(1).

Author information:
(1)Universidade São Francisco.

Ability testing has been criticized because understanding of the construct being 
assessed is incomplete and because the testing has not yet been satisfactorily 
improved in accordance with new knowledge from cognitive psychology. This 
article contributes to the solution of this problem through the application of 
item response theory and Susan Embretson's cognitive design system for test 
development in the development of a fluid intelligence scale. This study is 
based on findings from cognitive psychology; instead of focusing on the 
development of a test, it focuses on the definition of a variable for the 
creation of a criterion-referenced measure for fluid intelligence. A geometric 
matrix item bank with 26 items was analyzed with data from 2,797 undergraduate 
students. The main result was a criterion-referenced scale that was based on 
information from item features that were linked to cognitive components, such as 
storage capacity, goal management, and abstraction; this information was used to 
create the descriptions of selected levels of a fluid intelligence scale. The 
scale proposed that the levels of fluid intelligence range from the ability to 
solve problems containing a limited number of bits of information with obvious 
relationships through the ability to solve problems that involve abstract 
relationships under conditions that are confounded with an information overload 
and distraction by mixed noise. This scale can be employed in future research to 
provide interpretations for the measurements of the cognitive processes mastered 
and the types of difficulty experienced by examinees.

PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/a0036712
PMID: 24773034 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


686. Psychol Health Med. 2015;20(2):198-204. doi: 10.1080/13548506.2014.913797. Epub 
2014 Apr 28.

The relationship between the social management of emotional intelligence and 
academic performance among medical students.

Chew BH(1), Md Zain A, Hassan F.

Author information:
(1)a Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, Department of Family Medicine , 
Universiti Putra Malaysia , Serdang , Malaysia.

Positive social interaction with peers was said to facilitate cognitive and 
intellectual development leading to good academic performance. There was paucity 
of published data on the effect of social management (SM) emotional intelligence 
(EI) on academic performance. We conducted this study to examine their 
relationship in the undergraduate medical students in a public medical school in 
Malaysia. This was a cross-sectional study using the Mayer-Salovey-Caruso 
Emotional Intelligence Test (MSCEIT) to measure the SM. The first and final year 
medical students were invited to participate. Students answered a paper-based 
demography questionnaire and completed the online MSCEIT in privacy. Independent 
predictors were identified using multivariate analyses. A total of 163 (84 first 
year and 79 final year) medical students completed the study (at a response rate 
of 66.0%). SM score (B = -.10 95% CI -.175 to -.015, p = .021) was significantly 
related to the continuous assessment (CA) marks (adjusted R(2) = .45, 
F13,137 = 10.26, p < .0001), and was a predictor of poor result in the overall 
CA (adjusted OR 1.06 95% CI 1.011-1.105). Negative relationships might exist 
between emotional social intelligence and academic success in undergraduate 
medical students. A different collection of social skills and SM EI could be 
constructive towards academic achievement in medical schools.

DOI: 10.1080/13548506.2014.913797
PMID: 24773524 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


687. Behav Brain Sci. 2014 Apr;37(2):217-8. doi: 10.1017/S0140525X1300246X.

Experiential effects on mirror systems and social learning: implications for 
social intelligence.

Reader SM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, McGill University, Montréal, QC H3A 1B1, Canada. 
simon.reader@mcgill.ca http://biology.mcgill.ca/faculty/reader/

Comment in
    Behav Brain Sci. 2014 Apr;37(2):221-41.

Comment on
    Behav Brain Sci. 2014 Apr;37(2):177-92.

Investigations of biases and experiential effects on social learning, social 
information use, and mirror systems can usefully inform one another. 
Unconstrained learning is predicted to shape mirror systems when the optimal 
response to an observed act varies, but constraints may emerge when immediate 
error-free responses are required and evolutionary or developmental history 
reliably predicts the optimal response. Given the power of associative learning, 
such constraints may be rare.

DOI: 10.1017/S0140525X1300246X
PMID: 24775174 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


688. Eur J Paediatr Neurol. 2014 Sep;18(5):578-90. doi: 10.1016/j.ejpn.2014.04.004. 
Epub 2014 Apr 14.

Brain volumes and cognitive function in very-low-birth-weight (VLBW) young 
adults.

Bjuland KJ(1), Rimol LM(2), Løhaugen GC(3), Skranes J(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Children's and Women's Health, Norwegian 
University of Science and Technology, Olav Kyrres gt. 11, N-7489 Trondheim, 
Norway. Electronic address: knutjorgen@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Children's and Women's Health, Norwegian 
University of Science and Technology, Olav Kyrres gt. 11, N-7489 Trondheim, 
Norway.
(3)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Children's and Women's Health, Norwegian 
University of Science and Technology, Olav Kyrres gt. 11, N-7489 Trondheim, 
Norway; Department of Pediatrics, Sørlandet Hospital, 4809 Arendal, Norway.

BACKGROUND: Preterm born very-low-birth-weight (VLBW: birth weight ≤1500 g) 
survivors have increased risk of perinatal brain injury that may cause deviant 
brain development and later neuroimpairments, including reduced cognitive 
functioning.
AIMS: In this long-term follow up study of three year-cohorts (birth years 
1986-88) of VLBW subjects and term born controls with normal birth weight, the 
aim was to examine differences in brain volumes at age 20 years. In addition, 
the relationships between brain volumes and cognitive abilities and perinatal 
variables were explored.
METHODS: Forty-four VLBW subjects and 60 controls were assessed with cognitive 
testing (Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale - WAIS-III) and structural MRI at 
1.5 T, using the FreeSurfer 5.1 software for volumetric analysis. A 
subpopulation had MRI performed also at age 15, and for this group changes in 
brain volumes with age were examined.
RESULTS: The VLBW subjects had smaller brain volumes, especially of thalamus, 
globus pallidus and parts of the corpus callosum, and larger lateral ventricles 
than controls at age 20. However, no significant group differences in 
longitudinal change from age 15 to 20 were observed. The most immature and 
smallest VLBW subjects at birth, and those with the highest perinatal morbidity, 
showed most pronounced volume deviations. Positive associations between several 
brain volumes and full IQ, as well as three of four IQ indices in the VLBW 
group, were observed.
CONCLUSION: Reduced volumes of grey and white matter and ventricular dilatation 
in VLBW young adults may indicate permanent effects on brain development from 
perinatal brain injury with influence on later cognitive function.

Copyright © 2014 European Paediatric Neurology Society. Published by Elsevier 
Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejpn.2014.04.004
PMID: 24775377 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


689. J Res Med Sci. 2014 Feb;19(2):90-8.

Structural Model of psychological risk and protective factors affecting on 
quality of life in patients with coronary heart disease: A psychocardiology 
model.

Nekouei ZK(1), Yousefy A(2), Doost HT(1), Manshaee G(1), Sadeghei M(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Isfahan Sciences and Research Branch, Islamic Azad 
University, Isfahan, Iran.
(2)Medical Education, Medical Education Research Center, Isfahan University of 
Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
(3)Cardiac Rehabilitation Research Center, Isfahan Cardiovascular Research 
Institute, Isfahan, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Conducted researches show that psychological factors may have a very 
important role in the etiology, continuity and consequences of coronary heart 
diseases. This study has drawn the psychological risk and protective factors and 
their effects in patients with coronary heart diseases (CHD) in a structural 
model. It aims to determine the structural relations between psychological risk 
and protective factors with quality of life in patients with coronary heart 
disease.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The present cross-sectional and correlational studies 
were conducted using structural equation modeling. The study sample included 398 
patients of coronary heart disease in the university referral Hospital, as well 
as other city health care centers in Isfahan city. They were selected based on 
random sampling method. Then, in case, they were executed the following 
questionnaires: Coping with stressful situations (CISS- 21), life orientation 
(LOT-10), general self-efficacy (GSE-10), depression, anxiety and stress 
(DASS-21), perceived stress (PSS-14), multidimensional social support 
(MSPSS-12), alexithymia (TAS-20), spiritual intelligence (SQ-23) and quality of 
life (WHOQOL-26).
RESULTS: The results showed that protective and risk factors could affect the 
quality of life in patients with CHD with factor loadings of 0.35 and -0.60, 
respectively. Moreover, based on the values of the framework of the model such 
as relative chi-square (CMIN/DF = 3.25), the Comparative Fit Index (CFI = 0.93), 
the Parsimony Comparative Fit Index (PCFI = 0.68), the Root Mean Square Error of 
Approximation (RMSEA = 0.07) and details of the model (significance of the 
relationships) it has been confirmed that the psychocardiological structural 
model of the study is the good fitting model.
CONCLUSION: This study was among the first to research the different 
psychological risk and protective factors of coronary heart diseases in the form 
of a structural model. The results of this study have emphasized the necessity 
of noticing the psychological factors in primary prevention by preventive 
programs and in secondary prevention by rehabilitation centers to improve the 
quality of life of the people with heart diseases.

PMCID: PMC3999613
PMID: 24778660

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: Nil.


690. Korean J Pediatr. 2014 Mar;57(3):149-52. doi: 10.3345/kjp.2014.57.3.149. Epub 
2014 Mar 31.

Congenital muscular dystrophy type 1A with residual merosin expression.

Kim HJ(1), Choi YC(2), Park HJ(2), Lee YM(3), Kim HD(4), Lee JS(4), Kang HC(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Konyang University College of Medicine, Deajeon, 
Korea.
(2)Department of Neurology, Gangnam Severance Hospital, Yonsei University 
College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, Gangnam Severance Hospital, Yonsei University 
College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(4)Division of Pediatric Neurology, Department of Pediatrics, Severance 
Children's Hospital, Yonsei University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

Congenital muscular dystrophy type 1A (MDC1A) is an autosomal recessive disorder 
characterized by hypotonia, elevated serum creatine kinase level, delayed motor 
milestones, white matter changes observed by brain magnetic resonance imaging, 
and normal intelligence. A mutation in the laminin α2 (LAMA2) gene, located at 
6q22-23, is a genetic cause of MDC1A. Patients have merosin (laminin 
α2)-deficient skeletal muscles. However, the degree of merosin expression ranges 
from total absence to partial reduction. Patients with residual merosin 
expression have more variable and milder phenotypes than those with absolute 
merosin deficiency. We observed a Korean girl with MDC1A with residual merosin 
expression. Clinical presentation of this patient was typical except for late 
onset of the disease and external capsule involvement. Immunohistochemical 
staining of muscle fibers including merosin, is important to evaluate patients 
with hypotonia, delayed motor development, and abnormal white matter changes.

DOI: 10.3345/kjp.2014.57.3.149
PMCID: PMC4000761
PMID: 24778697

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest relevant to 
this article was reported.


691. IEEE Trans Vis Comput Graph. 2014 May;20(5):702-13. doi: 
10.1109/TVCG.2014.2299803.

Chess Evolution Visualization.

Lu WL, Wang YS, Lin WC.

We present a chess visualization to convey the changes in a game over successive 
generations. It contains a score chart, an evolution graph and a chess board, 
such that users can understand a game from global to local viewpoints. Unlike 
current graphical chess tools, which focus only on highlighting pieces that are 
under attack and require sequential investigation, our visualization shows 
potential outcomes after a piece is moved and indicates how much tactical 
advantage the player can have over the opponent. Users can first glance at the 
score chart to roughly obtain the growth and decline of advantages from both 
sides, and then examine the position relations and the piece placements, to know 
how the pieces are controlled and how the strategy works. To achieve this 
visualization, we compute the decision tree using artificial intelligence to 
analyze a game, in which each node represents a chess position and each edge 
connects two positions that are one-move different. We then merge nodes 
representing the same chess position, and shorten branches where nodes on them 
contain only two neighbors, in order to achieve readability. During the graph 
rendering, the nodes containing events such as draws, effective checks and 
checkmates, are highlighted because they show how a game is ended. As a result, 
our visualization helps players understand a chess game so that they can 
efficiently learn strategies and tactics. The presented results, evaluations, 
and the conducted user studies demonstrate the feasibility of our visualization 
design.

DOI: 10.1109/TVCG.2014.2299803
PMID: 26357293


692. The role of informal networks in creating knowledge among health-care managers: 
a prospective case study.

Ward V(1), West R(1), Smith S(1), McDermott S(1), Keen J(1), Pawson R(2), House 
A(1).

Southampton (UK): NIHR Journals Library; 2014 May.
Health Services and Delivery Research.

Author information:
(1)Leeds Institute of Health Sciences, University of Leeds, Leeds, UK
(2)School of Sociology and Social Policy, University of Leeds, Leeds, UK

BACKGROUND: Health and well-being services, in common with many public services, 
cannot be delivered by a single organisation and require co-ordination across 
several organisations in a locality. There is some evidence, mostly from other 
sectors, that middle managers play pivotal roles in this co-ordination by 
developing networks of relationships with colleagues in other organisations. 
These networks of relationships, established over time, provide contexts in 
which managers can, collectively, create the knowledge needed to address the 
challenges they encounter. Relatively little is known, however, about how these 
knowledge-creation processes work in a health-care context.
AIM: This study focuses on how health and well-being managers collectively 
create knowledge. Our objectives were to develop a better understanding of the 
way that knowledge is created within and between health-care organisations, 
across different managerial levels, and of the role played by informal networks 
in those processes.
METHODS: The study was undertaken in health and well-being services in three 
sites in northern England, employing a case study design. The field methods used 
were landscape mapping, structured data collection for network analysis and 
latent position cluster analysis, and semi-structured interviews for narrative 
analysis. Our network modelling approach used the concepts of latent position 
network models and latent position cluster models. We used these models to 
identify clusters of people within networks, and people who acted as bridgers 
between clusters. We then interviewed middle managers who – on the evidence of 
our cluster models – occupied similar positions in our graphs. The latter were 
used to produce practice-based narratives of knowledge creation.
RESULTS: Our narrative results showed that middle managers were synthesisers, in 
three different senses. First, they draw on different types of information, from 
a range of sources – quantitative routine data about populations and services, 
reports on progress against contractual targets, research evidence, and 
intelligence from colleagues in other localities. Second, they are able to link 
national policies and local priorities, and reconcile them with local 
operational realities. They are not always successful, but can integrate the 
different approaches and working practices of NHS, local authority, private and 
voluntary organisations. Third, they are able to link ideas, negotiation and 
action. We found that the network results were most usefully represented as 
clusters, explaining relationships between actors. Actors within clusters had 
common attributes, and as a result we were able to interpret the broad purpose 
of each of the clusters in the graphs for each site. The most useful number of 
clusters was three or four for both network types, and for both sampling 
periods, at each of the three sites. The clusters at all three sites had a mix 
of organisations represented within them. There was a mix of seniorities of 
managers in all clusters. Relationships were simultaneously formal and informal: 
formal contracts were managed in a context of ongoing conversations and 
negotiations. Relationships were simultaneously stable and fluid, with stable 
‘cores’ of managers but memberships that varied substantially between two 
periods of data collection.
CONCLUSIONS: Our theory about knowledge creation was broadly supported. Managers 
of health and well-being services develop and maintain knowledge collectively. 
Their collective efforts are typically manifested either in projects requiring 
multiorganisational inputs or in taking ideas from genesis to the delivery of a 
new service. The cluster modelling suggests that networks of managers are able 
to maintain relationships, and hence conserve technical and prudential 
knowledge, over months and years. Priorities for future work include 
establishing the value of latent cluster modelling in understanding the work of 
groups and teams in other health and social care settings, and studying 
knowledge creation in the context of the interorganisational co-ordination of 
services.
FUNDING: The National Institute for Health Research Health Services and Delivery 
Research programme.

Study on knowledge creation within health and well-being services finds that 
managers from different organisations develop and maintain knowledge 
collectively, in line with knowledge-creation theory. Cluster modelling 
indicates that networks of managers are able to maintain relationships, thereby 
also maintaining knowledge, over months or years. Middle managers were shown to 
be synthesisers, and relationships to be simultaneously formal and informal, as 
well as simultaneously stable and fluid.

Copyright © Queen’s Printer and Controller of HMSO 2014. This work was produced 
by Ward et al. under the terms of a commissioning contract issued by the 
Secretary of State for Health. This issue may be freely reproduced for the 
purposes of private research and study and extracts (or indeed, the full report) 
may be included in professional journals provided that suitable acknowledgement 
is made and the reproduction is not associated with any form of advertising. 
Applications for commercial reproduction should be addressed to: NIHR Journals 
Library, National Institute for Health Research, Evaluation, Trials and Studies 
Coordinating Centre, Alpha House, University of Southampton Science Park, 
Southampton SO16 7NS, UK.

DOI: 10.3310/hsdr02120
PMID: 27466651


693. J R Soc Med. 2014 Aug;107(8):318-325. doi: 10.1177/0141076814532392. Epub 2014 
Apr 29.

The friends and family test: a qualitative study of concerns that influence the 
willingness of English National Health Service staff to recommend their 
organisation.

Dixon-Woods M(1), Minion JT(2), McKee L(3), Willars J(4), Martin G(4).

Author information:
(1)SAPPHIRE group, Department of Health Sciences, University of Leicester, 
Leicester LE1 6TP, UK md11@le.ac.uk.
(2)Data to Knowledge group, School of Social and Community Medicine, University 
of Bristol, Bristol BS8 2BN, UK.
(3)Health Services Research Unit, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen AB25 2ZD, UK.
(4)SAPPHIRE group, Department of Health Sciences, University of Leicester, 
Leicester LE1 6TP, UK.

OBJECTIVES: The views of practitioners at the 'sharp end' of care provision are 
increasingly recognised as important indicators of quality of care. The National 
Health Service (NHS) Staff Survey in England has quantified employees' views on 
how far they would be happy with the standard of care provided by their 
organisation if a friend or family member needed treatment. We aimed to 
characterise the concerns that might affect the willingness of staff to 
recommend their own organisations.
DESIGN: Qualitative study involving semi-structured interviews. Data analysis 
based on the constant comparative method.
PARTICIPANTS: Members of clinical and managerial staff in four NHS organisations 
(n = 70), and senior stakeholders across the NHS including clinicians, managers 
and others with a strategic or senior-level perspective (n = 98).
SETTING: One hundred and sixty-eight interviews were conducted: 70 in four case 
study organisations and 98 across the wider English NHS.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Not applicable.
RESULTS: Asking study participants the 'if a friend…' question offered insider 
views on the quality of care. Some staff had no concerns, but others, identified 
significant problems with consistency, reliability and behaviour of staff. 
Participants identified reasons for poor care that included inadequate 
organisational systems; structural problems of understaffing and 
under-resourcing; weaknesses in professional cultures and professional 
competence and failure to deal with problems such as unacceptable conduct. 
Participants emphasised that staff were not always able to deliver high-quality 
care because they worked in difficult conditions.
CONCLUSIONS: Asking staff to give accounts of their willingness to recommend 
their organisation to family and friends elicits important insights into quality 
and safety of care. Such accounts might be able to provide warning signs that 
could signal organisational decline and avert healthcare scandals, but use 
outside a research context requires further evaluation.

© The Royal Society of Medicine.

DOI: 10.1177/0141076814532392
PMCID: PMC4128077
PMID: 24781160


694. Arch Immunol Ther Exp (Warsz). 2014 Jun;62(3):179-85. doi: 
10.1007/s00005-014-0289-7. Epub 2014 Apr 30.

Designing an effective microbial forensics program for law enforcement and 
national security purposes.

Murch RS(1).

Author information:
(1)Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, Arlington, VA, USA, 
rmurch@vt.edu.

Forensic capabilities that provide lead information, and investigative, 
intelligence, prosecution and policy decision support can be invaluable for 
responding to and resolving bioterrorism events. Attributing biological attacks 
through scientific and other resources and processes is an important goal, for 
which science can be instrumental. Some even believe that having effective 
microbial forensics capabilities along with others can even deter adversaries 
from using biological weapons. For those nations that do not have such or wish 
to integrate or upgrade capabilities, thoughtful analysis and consideration of 
certain design principles will increase the likelihood that success will be 
attained.

DOI: 10.1007/s00005-014-0289-7
PMID: 24781710 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


695. Front Hum Neurosci. 2014 Apr 11;8:210. doi: 10.3389/fnhum.2014.00210. 
eCollection 2014.

How do working-memory-related demand, reasoning ability and aversive 
reinforcement modulate conflict monitoring?

Leue A(1), Weber B(2), Beauducel A(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Psychology, University of Bonn Bonn, Germany ; Department of 
Epileptology, University Hospital Bonn Bonn, Germany.
(2)Department of Epileptology, University Hospital Bonn Bonn, Germany ; Center 
for Economics and Neuroscience, University of Bonn Bonn, Germany ; Life and 
Brain Center, Department of NeuroCognition, University of Bonn Bonn, Germany.
(3)Institute of Psychology, University of Bonn Bonn, Germany.

Conflict monitoring is a process of stimulus evaluation and a pre-requisite for 
subsequent recruitment of cognitive control and behavioral adaptations. This 
study investigated how experimentally manipulated working-memory-related 
cognitive demand and aversive reinforcement modulate individual differences of 
conflict monitoring intensity and behavioral adjustments. Individual differences 
were assessed by means of an anxiety-related trait dimension (trait-BIS) and by 
means of reasoning abilities-a core determinant of intelligence. Moreover, we 
investigated the special role of verbal reasoning ability and figural reasoning 
ability for the modulation of the conflict monitoring intensity. Ninety 
participants performed a go/nogo task with four conditions each comprising a 
combination of low vs. high working-memory-related cognitive demand and low vs. 
high aversive reinforcement. No effect of aversive reinforcement was observed 
for the N2 amplitude. The fronto-central nogo N2 amplitude was more pronounced 
for high demand vs. low demand suggesting that cognitive demand served as an 
aversive costly event. Higher total reasoning abilities were associated with 
more intense conflict monitoring and shorter response times with increasing 
aversive reinforcement (defined as verbal error-feedback vs. monetary loss). 
Individuals with higher trait-BIS scores demonstrated a more intense conflict 
monitoring even in conditions with low aversive reinforcement and also a more 
cautious responding (i.e., response times slowing) with increasing aversive 
reinforcement indicating a focus on negative feedback prevention. The findings 
provide evidence for the conflict monitoring theory and suggest that 
working-memory-related demand overrules the impact of aversive reinforcement on 
conflict monitoring intensity. Reasoning abilities and anxiety-related traits go 
along with an intensification of conflict monitoring but differences in the 
flexibility of behavioral adjustment.

DOI: 10.3389/fnhum.2014.00210
PMCID: PMC3990051
PMID: 24782739


696. Front Hum Neurosci. 2014 Apr 10;8:217. doi: 10.3389/fnhum.2014.00217. 
eCollection 2014.

Spaced cognitive training promotes training transfer.

Wang Z(1), Zhou R(2), Shah P(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Combined Program in Education and Psychology, 
University of Michigan Ann Arbor, MI, USA.
(2)Beijing Key Laboratory of Experimental Psychology, School of Psychology, 
Beijing Normal University Beijing, China ; State Key Laboratory of Cognitive 
Neuroscience and Learning, Beijing Normal University Beijing, China.

Cognitive training studies yield wildly inconsistent results. One dimension on 
which studies vary is the scheduling of training sessions (Morrison and Chein, 
2011). In this study, we systematically address whether or not spacing of 
practice influences training and transfer. We randomly assigned 115 fifth grade 
children to an active control group or one of four training groups who received 
working memory training based on a "running span" task (Zhao et al., 2011). All 
groups received the same total amount of training: 20 sessions of training with 
60 trials for an average of 20 min per session. The training was spread across 
2, 5, 10, or 20 days. The active control group received 20-min sessions of math 
instruction for 20 sessions. Before and after training participants in all five 
groups performed a single transfer test that assessed fluid intelligence, the 
Raven's Progressive Matrices Test. Overall, participants in all four training 
groups improved significantly on the training task (at least partially), as 
reflected by increased speed. More importantly, the only training group to show 
significant improvement on the Raven's was the group who had the greatest amount 
of spacing (20 days group) during training and improvement in this group was 
significantly higher than that of the control group.

DOI: 10.3389/fnhum.2014.00217
PMCID: PMC3989588
PMID: 24782744


697. Front Pharmacol. 2014 Apr 16;5:76. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2014.00076. eCollection 
2014.

A practical approach to aid physician interpretation of clinically actionable 
predictive biomarker results in a multi-platform tumor profiling service.

Russell K(1), Shunyakov L(2), Dicke KA(3), Maney T(4), Voss A(1).

Author information:
(1)Caris Life Sciences Basel, Switzerland.
(2)Central Care Cancer Center Bolivar, MO, USA.
(3)Arlington Cancer Center Arlington, TX, USA.
(4)Caris Life Sciences Phoenix, AZ, USA.

Patients in whom the standard of care has failed or who have uncommon tumors for 
which no standard of care exists are often treated with drugs selected based on 
the physician's best guess. The rate of success for this method is generally 
low. With the advent of fast, affordable tumor profiling technologies, and a 
growth in the understanding of predictive biomarkers, it is now possible to 
identify drugs potentially associated with clinical benefit for such patients. 
We present the Caris approach to evidence-based tumor profiling and two patients 
with advanced ovarian and prostate cancer in whom standard of care had failed 
and tumor profiling identified an effective treatment schedule. To establish 
Caris Molecular Intelligence(TM) (CMI), over 120,000 clinical publications were 
screened and graded to characterize the predictive value of biomarkers that form 
the panel of tests. CMI includes multiple technologies to measure changes in 
proteins, ribonucleic acid, and deoxyribonucleic acid and proprietary software 
that matches the test results with the published evidence. The CMI results 
enable physicians to select drugs that are more likely to benefit the patients, 
avoid drugs that are not likely to work, and find treatment options that 
otherwise would not be considered. Worldwide, over 60,000 cancer patients have 
undergone evidence-based tumor profiling with CMI. In the cases reported in this 
article, CMI identified treatments that would not have been routinely used in 
the respective clinical setting. The clinical outcomes observed help to 
illustrate the utility of this approach.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2014.00076
PMCID: PMC3997001
PMID: 24782778


698. Autism Res Treat. 2014;2014:743482. doi: 10.1155/2014/743482. Epub 2014 Mar 24.

Minor physical anomalies in adults with autism spectrum disorder and healthy 
controls.

Manouilenko I(1), Eriksson JM(2), Humble MB(3), Bejerot S(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden 
; Järva Psychiatric Outpatient Clinic, Rinkebysvängen 70A, 4tr, 163 74 Spånga, 
Sweden.
(2)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, 
Sweden.
(3)School of Health and Medical Sciences, Psychiatric Research Center, Örebro 
University, Örebro, Sweden.

Minor Physical Anomalies (MPAs) are subtle abnormalities of the head, face, and 
limbs, without significant cosmetic or functional impact to the individual. They 
are assumed to represent external markers of developmental deviations during 
foetal life. MPAs have been suggested to indicate severity in mental illness and 
constitute external markers for atypical brain development. Higher frequencies 
of MPAs can be found in children with autism. The aims of the present study were 
to examine the prevalence and patterns of MPAs in adults with autism spectrum 
disorder (ASD) and to investigate whether MPAs are associated with symptom 
severity and overall functioning. Fifty adults with ASD and intelligence within 
the normal range and 53 healthy controls were examined with the Waldrop scale, 
an instrument for assessing MPAs. Face and feet were photographed enabling 
blinded assessment. Significant differences between the ASD and the control 
group were found on the MPA total scores, and also in the craniofacial region 
scores. Moreover, the shape of the ears was associated with autistic traits, in 
the ASD group. High MPA total scores were associated with poorer functioning. 
The findings suggest a link between MPAs, autistic traits, and level of 
functioning. Assessment of MPAs may assist in the diagnostic procedure of 
psychiatric disorders.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/743482
PMCID: PMC3982266
PMID: 24782925


699. J Sports Sci. 2014;32(13):1286-93. doi: 10.1080/02640414.2014.898853. Epub 2014 
May 1.

The polygenic profile of Russian football players.

Egorova ES(1), Borisova AV, Mustafina LJ, Arkhipova AA, Gabbasov RT, 
Druzhevskaya AM, Astratenkova IV, Ahmetov II.

Author information:
(1)a Laboratory of Molecular Genetics , Kazan State Medical University , Kazan , 
Russian Federation.

Research concerned with predictors of talent in football has highlighted a 
number of potentially important and partially inherited measures such as body 
size, anaerobic power, aerobic capacity, agility, psychological profile, game 
intelligence and susceptibility to injuries. Genotyping for 
performance-associated DNA polymorphisms at an early age could be useful in 
predicting later success in football. The aim of the study was to investigate 
individually and in combination the association of common gene polymorphisms 
with football player's status. A total of 246 Russian football players and 872 
controls were genotyped for 8 gene polymorphisms, which were previously reported 
to be associated with athlete status. Four alleles (ACE D, ACTN3 Arg577, PPARA 
rs4253778 C and UCP2 55Val) were first identified, showing discrete associations 
with football player's status. Next, we determined the total genotype score 
(TGS, from the accumulated combination of the 4 polymorphisms, with a maximum 
value of 100 for the theoretically optimal polygenic score) in athletes and 
controls. The mean TGS was significantly higher in football players (52.0 (17.6) 
vs. 41.3 (15.5); P < 0.0001) than in controls. These data suggest that the 
likelihood of becoming a football player depends on the carriage of a high 
number of "favourable" gene variants.

DOI: 10.1080/02640414.2014.898853
PMID: 24784145 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


700. An Pediatr (Barc). 2015 May;82(5):308-15. doi: 10.1016/j.anpedi.2014.03.020. 
Epub 2014 Apr 29.

[Somatic complaints, emotional awareness and maladjustment in schoolchildren].

[Article in Spanish]

Ordóñez A(1), Maganto C(2), González R(3).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Personalidad, Evaluación y Tratamientos Psicológicos, 
Universitat de València, Valencia, España. Electronic address: 
ana.ordonez@uv.es.
(2)Departamento de Personalidad, Evaluación y Tratamientos Psicológicos, 
Universidad del País Vasco, San Sebastián, Guipúzcoa, España.
(3)Departamento de Personalidad, Evaluación y Tratamientos Psicológicos, 
Universitat de València, Valencia, España.

INTRODUCTION: Somatic complaints are common in childhood. Research has shown 
their relationship with emotional awareness and maladjustment. The study had 
three objectives: 1) to analyze the prevalence of somatic complaints; 2) To 
explore the relationships between the variables evaluated: somatic complaints, 
differentiating emotions, verbal sharing of emotions, not hiding emotions, body 
awareness, attending to others' emotions, analysis of emotions, and personal, 
social, family, and school maladjustments; and 3) To identify predictors of 
somatic complaints.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The study included a total of 1,134 randomly selected 
schoolchildren of both sexes between 10-12 years old (M=10.99; SD=0.88). The 
Somatic Complaint List, Emotional Awareness Questionnaire, and Self-reported 
Multifactor Test of Childhood Adaptation were used to gather information.
RESULTS: The results showed that the prevalence of somatic complaints was 90.2%, 
with fatigue, headache and stomachache being the most frequently. Dizziness and 
headache were more common in girls, and the frequency of complaints decreases 
with age. Somatic complaints are negatively related to emotional awareness, and 
positively related to maladjustment. The variables that contribute the most to 
the prediction of somatic complaints are personal maladjustment (25.1%) and 
differentiating emotions (2.5%).
CONCLUSIONS: The study shows that personal maladjustment is the best predictor 
of somatic complaints; the more emotional awareness and better adapted the 
child, the fewer somatic complaints they lodge. Childhood is a stage with 
significant physical discomfort.

Copyright © 2014 Asociación Española de Pediatría. Published by Elsevier España, 
S.L.U. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.anpedi.2014.03.020
PMID: 24785446 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


701. Pers Soc Psychol Bull. 2014 Aug;40(8):1012-1023. doi: 10.1177/0146167214533388. 
Epub 2014 Apr 30.

Responsiveness to the Negative Affect System as a Function of Emotion 
Perception: Relations Between Affect and Sociability in Three Daily Diary 
Studies.

Moeller SK(1), Nicpon CG(1), Robinson MD(2).

Author information:
(1)Saint Xavier University, Chicago, IL, USA.
(2)North Dakota State University, Fargo, ND, USA michael.d.robinson@ndsu.edu.

Perceiving emotions clearly and accurately is an important component of 
emotional intelligence (EI). This skill is thought to predict emotional and 
social outcomes, but evidence for this point appears somewhat underwhelming in 
cross-sectional designs. The present work adopted a more contextual approach to 
understanding the correlates of emotion perception. Because emotion perception 
involves awareness of affect as it occurs, people higher in this skill might 
reasonably be expected to be more attuned to variations in their affective 
states and be responsive to them for this reason. This novel hypothesis was 
pursued in three daily diary studies (total N = 247), which found systematic 
evidence for the idea that higher levels of daily negative affect predicted 
lesser sociability particularly, and somewhat exclusively, among people whose 
emotion perception skills were high rather than low. The results support a 
contextual understanding of individual differences in emotion perception and how 
they operate.

© 2014 by the Society for Personality and Social Psychology, Inc.

DOI: 10.1177/0146167214533388
PMCID: PMC4214908
PMID: 24789808


702. ScientificWorldJournal. 2014 Mar 24;2014:432976. doi: 10.1155/2014/432976. 
eCollection 2014.

Accuracy enhancement for forecasting water levels of reservoirs and river 
streams using a multiple-input-pattern fuzzification approach.

Valizadeh N(1), El-Shafie A(1), Mirzaei M(1), Galavi H(2), Mukhlisin M(1), 
Jaafar O(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Civil and Structural Engineering, Universiti Kebangsaan 
Malaysia (UKM), 43000 Bangi, Selangor, Malaysia.
(2)Civil Engineering Department, Faculty of Engineering, Universiti Putra 
Malaysia (UPM), 43300 Serdang, Selangor, Malaysia.

Water level forecasting is an essential topic in water management affecting 
reservoir operations and decision making. Recently, modern methods utilizing 
artificial intelligence, fuzzy logic, and combinations of these techniques have 
been used in hydrological applications because of their considerable ability to 
map an input-output pattern without requiring prior knowledge of the criteria 
influencing the forecasting procedure. The artificial neurofuzzy interface 
system (ANFIS) is one of the most accurate models used in water resource 
management. Because the membership functions (MFs) possess the characteristics 
of smoothness and mathematical components, each set of input data is able to 
yield the best result using a certain type of MF in the ANFIS models. The 
objective of this study is to define the different ANFIS model by applying 
different types of MFs for each type of input to forecast the water level in two 
case studies, the Klang Gates Dam and Rantau Panjang station on the Johor river 
in Malaysia, to compare the traditional ANFIS model with the new introduced one 
in two different situations, reservoir and stream, showing the new approach 
outweigh rather than the traditional one in both case studies. This objective is 
accomplished by evaluating the model fitness and performance in daily 
forecasting.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/432976
PMCID: PMC3982474
PMID: 24790567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


703. Ultrasonics. 2014 Aug;54(6):1534-44. doi: 10.1016/j.ultras.2014.03.017. Epub 
2014 Apr 18.

Active incremental Support Vector Machine for oil and gas pipeline defects 
prediction system using long range ultrasonic transducers.

Akram NA(1), Isa D(2), Rajkumar R(3), Lee LH(4).

Author information:
(1)The University of Nottingham Malaysia Campus, Jalan Broga, 43500 Semenyih, 
Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia. Electronic address: keyx1nak@nottingham.edu.my.
(2)The University of Nottingham Malaysia Campus, Jalan Broga, 43500 Semenyih, 
Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia. Electronic address: Dino.Isa@nottingham.edu.my.
(3)The University of Nottingham Malaysia Campus, Jalan Broga, 43500 Semenyih, 
Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia. Electronic address: 
Rajprasad.Rajkumar@nottingham.edu.my.
(4)Quest International University Perak, No. 227, Plaza Teh Teng Seng, Level 2, 
Jalan Raja Permaisuri Bainun, 30250 Ipoh, Perak, Malaysia. Electronic address: 
lamhong.lee@qiup.edu.my.

This work proposes a long range ultrasonic transducers technique in conjunction 
with an active incremental Support Vector Machine (SVM) classification approach 
that is used for real-time pipeline defects prediction and condition monitoring. 
Oil and gas pipeline defects are detected using various techniques. One of the 
most prevalent techniques is the use of "smart pigs" to travel along the 
pipeline and detect defects using various types of sensors such as magnetic 
sensors and eddy-current sensors. A critical short coming of "smart pigs" is the 
inability to monitor continuously and predict the onset of defects. The 
emergence of permanently installed long range ultrasonics transducers systems 
enable continuous monitoring to be achieved. The needs for and the challenges of 
the proposed technique are presented. The experimental results show that the 
proposed technique achieves comparable classification accuracy as when batch 
training is used, while the computational time is decreased, using 56 feature 
data points acquired from a lab-scale pipeline defect generating experimental 
rig.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ultras.2014.03.017
PMID: 24792683


704. Acta Psychol (Amst). 2014 Jul;150:14-25. doi: 10.1016/j.actpsy.2014.04.001. Epub 
2014 May 8.

Similarities and differences between mind-wandering and external distraction: a 
latent variable analysis of lapses of attention and their relation to cognitive 
abilities.

Unsworth N(1), McMillan BD(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Oregon, United States. Electronic 
address: nashu@uoregon.edu.
(2)Department of Psychology, University of Oregon, United States.

The current study examined the extent to which task-unrelated thoughts represent 
both vulnerability to mind-wandering and susceptibility to external distraction 
from an individual difference perspective. Participants performed multiple 
measures of attention control, working memory capacity, and fluid intelligence. 
Task-unrelated thoughts were assessed using thought probes during the attention 
control tasks. Using latent variable techniques, the results suggested that 
mind-wandering and external distraction reflect distinct, yet correlated 
constructs, both of which are related to working memory capacity and fluid 
intelligence. Furthermore, the results suggest that the common variance shared 
by mind-wandering, external distraction, and attention control is what primarily 
accounts for their relation with working memory capacity and fluid intelligence. 
These results support the notion that lapses of attention are strongly related 
to cognitive abilities.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.actpsy.2014.04.001
PMID: 24793128 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


705. J Adolesc. 2014 Jun;37(4):461-72. doi: 10.1016/j.adolescence.2014.03.012. Epub 
2014 Apr 14.

Emotional intelligence and psychological maladjustment in adolescence: a 
systematic review.

Resurrección DM(1), Salguero JM(2), Ruiz-Aranda D(2).

Author information:
(1)Universidad de Málaga, Spain. Electronic address: daviniarm@uma.es.
(2)Universidad de Málaga, Spain.

The study of emotional intelligence (EI) and its association with psychological 
maladjustment in adolescence is a new and active area of research. However, the 
diverse range of EI measurements and aspects of psychological maladjustment 
examined make it difficult to synthesize the findings and apply them to 
practice. Therefore, we conducted a systematic review to summarize the 
relationship between EI and adolescents' emotional problems, eating disorder 
symptoms, addictions, and maladaptive coping. Using English and Spanish 
keywords, we identified 32 studies that found a negative association between EI 
and internalizing problems, depression, and anxiety. EI was also associated with 
less substance abuse and with better coping strategies. These associations 
differed slightly depending on whether EI was evaluated based on self-reporting 
or by testing maximum performance. We highlight methodological limitations in 
the literature on EI and adolescence, and we discuss potentially important areas 
for future research.

Copyright © 2014 The Foundation for Professionals in Services for Adolescents. 
Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.adolescence.2014.03.012
PMID: 24793394 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


706. Mol Neurobiol. 2015 Feb;51(1):187-208. doi: 10.1007/s12035-014-8720-y. Epub 2014 
May 4.

Cognitive reserve and Alzheimer's disease.

Xu W(1), Yu JT, Tan MS, Tan L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Qingdao Municipal Hospital, School of Medicine, 
Qingdao University, Qingdao, China.

Alzheimer's disease (AD), as a neurodegenerative process caused by widespread 
senile plaques and neurofibrillary tangles, is faced with an increasingly higher 
incidence as the global aging develops. Cognitive reserve (CR) hypothesis is 
proposed to elucidate the disjunction between cognitive performance and the 
pathological level of AD, positing that some life span experiences will lend 
protection from AD pathological insults. We provide an overview on recent 
studies involved in validation of the hypothesis as well as the association 
between AD and CR proxies, such as educational attainment and quality, 
occupational activity, leisure activity, general intelligence, and enriched 
environment. We further discuss some potential mechanisms by which CR proxy acts 
against AD pathological insults including neuroplasticity, neurogenesis, and 
locus coeruleus-noradrenergic (LC/NA) system. Finally, we review the 
applications of CR theory for AD prevention and therapy, particularly through 
physical activity and cognitive training strategy. We believe that a better 
knowledge of the relationship between AD and CR, accompanied by a successful 
transition of research accomplishments into practice, will impart much relief to 
individuals suffering from AD.

DOI: 10.1007/s12035-014-8720-y
PMID: 24794146 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


707. Food Chem Toxicol. 2014 Aug;70:151-6. doi: 10.1016/j.fct.2014.04.035. Epub 2014 
Apr 30.

Neuroprotective effects of xanthone derivative of Garcinia mangostana against 
lead-induced acetylcholinesterase dysfunction and cognitive impairment.

Phyu MP(1), Tangpong J(2).

Author information:
(1)Biomedical Sciences, School of Allied Health Sciences and Public Health, 
Walailak University, Nakhon Si Thammarat 80160, Thailand.
(2)Biomedical Sciences, School of Allied Health Sciences and Public Health, 
Walailak University, Nakhon Si Thammarat 80160, Thailand. Electronic address: 
njibjoy@yahoo.com.

Lead poisoning is a common environmental toxicity and low level of lead exposure 
is responsible for neurobehavioral or intelligence defects. This study was 
designed to investigate the protective effect of a xanthone derivative of 
Garcinia mangostana against lead-induced acetycholinesterase (AChE) dysfunction 
and cognitive impairment in mice. ICR mice were exposed to lead acetate (Pb) in 
drinking water (1%) with or without xanthone co-administration (100 and 
200mg/kgBW/day) for 38days. Xanthone possesses a high phenolic content, which is 
positive correlation with its antioxidant activity (R(2)=0.98). The IC50 of 
xanthone on scavenging free radical activities, hydroxyl radical, superoxide 
radical, hydrogen peroxide and nitric oxide in cell-free system were 0.48±0.08, 
1.88±0.09, 2.20±0.03 and 0.98±0.40mg/mL, respectively. We found that Pb induced 
AChE dysfunction and memory deficit in a dose dependent manner, indicated by in 
vitro and in vivo studies. However, xanthone significantly restored AChE 
activity in the blood and brains of mice and prevented Pb-induced 
neurobehavioral defect indicators with Forced Swimming and Morris water maze 
tests. Xanthone treatment improved all indicators compared to the Pb-treated 
group. In conclusion, xanthone alleviates Pb-induced neurotoxicity, in part, by 
suppression of oxidative damage and reversing AChE activity with a reduction in 
learning deficit and memory loss.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fct.2014.04.035
PMID: 24795231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


708. Front Aging Neurosci. 2014 Apr 22;6:76. doi: 10.3389/fnagi.2014.00076. 
eCollection 2014.

Fluid intelligence and brain functional organization in aging yoga and 
meditation practitioners.

Gard T(1), Taquet M(2), Dixit R(3), Hölzel BK(4), de Montjoye YA(5), Brach N(6), 
Salat DH(7), Dickerson BC(8), Gray JR(9), Lazar SW(8).

Author information:
(1)Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School Charlestown, Boston, 
MA, USA ; Bender Institute of Neuroimaging, Justus Liebig Universität Giessen 
Giessen, Germany ; Faculty of Psychology and Neuroscience, Maastricht University 
Maastricht, Netherlands.
(2)Information and Communication Technologies, Electronics and Applied 
Mathematics Institute, Université Catholique de Louvain Louvain-La-Neuve, 
Belgium.
(3)BrainBot San Francisco, CA, USA.
(4)Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School Charlestown, Boston, 
MA, USA ; Institut für Medizinische Psychologie, Charite Universitätsmedizin 
Berlin, Germany.
(5)Media Lab, Massachusetts Institute of Technology Cambridge, MA, USA.
(6)PGSP-Stanford Psy.D. Consortium Palo Alto, CA, USA.
(7)Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School Charlestown, Boston, 
MA, USA ; VA Boston Healthcare System Boston, MA, USA.
(8)Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School Charlestown, Boston, 
MA, USA.
(9)Department of Psychology, Michigan State University East Lansing, MI, USA.

Numerous studies have documented the normal age-related decline of neural 
structure, function, and cognitive performance. Preliminary evidence suggests 
that meditation may reduce decline in specific cognitive domains and in brain 
structure. Here we extended this research by investigating the relation between 
age and fluid intelligence and resting state brain functional network 
architecture using graph theory, in middle-aged yoga and meditation 
practitioners, and matched controls. Fluid intelligence declined slower in yoga 
practitioners and meditators combined than in controls. Resting state functional 
networks of yoga practitioners and meditators combined were more integrated and 
more resilient to damage than those of controls. Furthermore, mindfulness was 
positively correlated with fluid intelligence, resilience, and global network 
efficiency. These findings reveal the possibility to increase resilience and to 
slow the decline of fluid intelligence and brain functional architecture and 
suggest that mindfulness plays a mechanistic role in this preservation.

DOI: 10.3389/fnagi.2014.00076
PMCID: PMC4001007
PMID: 24795629


709. Front Neurol. 2014 Apr 23;5:56. doi: 10.3389/fneur.2014.00056. eCollection 2014.

The relationship of neuropsychological variables to driving status following 
holistic neurorehabilitation.

Perumparaichallai RK(1), Husk KL(1), Myles SM(1), Klonoff PS(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Transitional NeuroRehabilitation, Barrow Neurological Institute, 
St. Joseph's Hospital and Medical Center , Phoenix, AZ , USA.

OBJECTIVE: The main objectives of the present study were to evaluate the 
cognitive and driving outcomes of a holistic neurorehabilitation program and to 
examine the relationship between the neuropsychological variables of attention, 
speed of information processing, and visuospatial functioning and driving 
outcomes.
METHODS: One hundred and twenty-eight individuals with heterogeneous 
neurological etiologies who participated in a holistic neurorehabilitation 
program. Holistic neurorehabilitation consisted of therapies focusing on 
physical, cognitive, language, emotional, and interpersonal functioning, 
including training in compensatory strategies. Neuropsychological testing was 
administered at admission and prior to starting driving or program discharge. 
Subtests of processing speed, working memory, and perceptual reasoning from the 
Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-III and Trail Making Test were included.
RESULTS: At the time of discharge, 54% of the individuals returned to driving. 
Statistical analyses revealed that at the time of discharge: the sample as a 
group made significant improvements on cognitive measures included in the study; 
the driving and non-driving groups differed significantly on aspects of 
processing speed, attention, abstract reasoning, working memory, and 
visuospatial functions. Further, at the time of admission, the driving group 
performed significantly better than the non-driving group on several 
neuropsychological measures.
CONCLUSION: Cognitive functions of attention, working memory, visual-motor 
coordination, motor and mental speed, and visual scanning significantly 
contribute to predicting driving status of individuals after 
neurorehabilitation. Holistic neurorehabilitation facilitates recovery and helps 
individuals to gain functional independence after brain injury.

DOI: 10.3389/fneur.2014.00056
PMCID: PMC4005955
PMID: 24795693


710. J Neural Transm (Vienna). 2014 Sep;121(9):1183-98. doi: 
10.1007/s00702-014-1225-z. Epub 2014 May 6.

Beyond individual differences: are working memory and inhibition informative 
specifiers within ASD?

de Vries M(1), Geurts HM.

Author information:
(1)d'Arc, Brain & Cognition, Department of Psychology, University of Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands, m.devries@uva.nl.

Findings on working memory (WM) and inhibition in children with autism spectrum 
disorders (ASD) are contradictory and earlier studies largely ignored individual 
differences. As WM and inhibition seem to be related, children who experience WM 
deficits might also experience inhibition deficits. Moreover, these children 
possibly form a distinct subgroup, differing on other variables, such as 
cognitive functioning, symptom severity, behavior, and attention deficit 
hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) characteristics. We studied a large sample of 
children with and without ASD (8-12 years, IQ > 80) with classic experimental 
tasks (n-back task, ASD n = 77, control n = 45; stop task, ASD n = 74, control n 
= 43), and explored individual differences. The ASD group made more errors on 
the n-back task with increasing WM load, and had longer stop signal reaction 
times on the stop task when compared with controls. However, only 6 % of the ASD 
group showed both WM and inhibition deficits, and 71 % showed no deficits. 
Parents of children with WM and/or inhibition deficits tended to report more 
conduct problems on the disruptive behavior disorder rating scale. ADHD 
characteristics did not influence performance. Some children used medication 
during testing, which seemingly influenced stop task performance, but excluding 
these data did not change the main findings. Large individual differences in 
cognitive functioning are present, even within children with ASD with average or 
above average intelligence. However, whether individual differences in specific 
cognitive domains, such as WM and inhibition are as informative as individual 
differences in diagnosis, comorbidity, and general cognitive functioning, calls 
for future research.

DOI: 10.1007/s00702-014-1225-z
PMID: 24796318 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


711. Cogn Affect Behav Neurosci. 2014 Dec;14(4):1356-74. doi: 
10.3758/s13415-014-0276-9.

Building tasks from verbal instructions: an EEG study on practice trial exposure 
and task structure complexity during novel sequences of behavior.

Roberts G(1), Jones TW, Davis EA, Ly TT, Anderson M.

Author information:
(1)School of Psychology and Exercise Science, Murdoch University, 90 South St, 
Murdoch, Perth, Western Australia, 6150, Australia, g.roberts@murdoch.edu.au.

Configuring the mind to perform a novel task is an effortful process and one 
that is related to differences in general intelligence. Previous research has 
suggested that when participants are given instructions for a future task, 
representations of the rules contained in the instructions can influence 
subsequent behavior, even when the rules are not necessary to perform the 
upcoming task. One hypothesis for the continued activation of rule 
representations suggests that the practice trials participants perform before 
the experimental trials may instantiate the unnecessary task rules into 
participants' mental model of the task (i.e., the task space). To test this 
hypothesis, EEGs were recorded as participants (N = 66) completed a multirule 
task designed to contrast the effects of increasing task structure complexity 
and practice trial exposure. The results showed that, as was predicted, 
performance is significantly poorer when more task rules are specified in the 
task instructions. Practice trials with the extra rule did not affect task 
performance, indicating that an unacted verbal instruction is sufficient to 
incorporate the rule into participants' mental model of the task. The EEG 
results showed that instruction complexity was linked to a phasic increase in 
frontal theta synchronization but reduced posterior alpha and beta 
desynchronization. These changes in synchronization occurred during a time 
period of low intertrial phase coherence and suggest that participants were 
"checking the task rules" amidst a trial. This transient neural activity may 
reflect compensatory mechanisms for dealing with increased mind-wandering that 
is more likely to occur in complex tasks.

DOI: 10.3758/s13415-014-0276-9
PMID: 24796598 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


712. Brain Stimul. 2014 Jul-Aug;7(4):516-20. doi: 10.1016/j.brs.2014.03.004. Epub 
2014 Apr 13.

Evidence for a role of the right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex in controlling 
stimulus-response integration: a transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) 
study.

Zmigrod S(1), Colzato LS(2), Hommel B(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Psychological Research, Leiden University, The Netherlands; 
Leiden Institute for Brain and Cognition, Leiden University, Leiden, The 
Netherlands. Electronic address: szmigrod@fsw.leidenuniv.nl.
(2)Institute for Psychological Research, Leiden University, The Netherlands; 
Leiden Institute for Brain and Cognition, Leiden University, Leiden, The 
Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Acting coherently upon stimuli requires some kind of integration of 
stimulus and response features across various distinct cortical feature maps 
(one aspect of the binding problem). Although the process of feature binding 
proper seems rather automatic, recent studies revealed that the management of 
stimulus-response bindings is less efficient in populations with impaired 
cognitive-control processes.
OBJECTIVE: Here, we investigated whether the cognitive control of 
stimulus-response feature bindings ("event files") in healthy participants is 
affected by non-invasive brain stimulation (tDCS) of the dorsolateral prefrontal 
cortex (DLPFC)-a main component of the cognitive-control network.
METHOD: In different sessions, participants received anodal, cathodal, or sham 
tDCS (2 mA, 20 min) while performing an audio-visual event-file task assessing 
the creation and retrieval of stimulus-stimulus and stimulus-response feature 
bindings. The general findings from this task indicate that performance suffers 
when some, but not all of the features are repeated (the so-called partial 
repetition cost).
RESULTS: Stimulation over the right, but not the left DLPFC reduced control of 
stimulus-response bindings and produced outcome patterns similar to those 
previously observed in autistic children, people with lower fluid intelligence, 
and older adults.
CONCLUSIONS: This finding provides empirical support for a role of the right 
DLPFC in feature-binding management, which might consist in preventing the 
stimulus-induced activation of previously created, but now task-irrelevant, 
episodic bindings. From a methodological perspective, the finding may suggest 
that tDCS could be used as a temporary, reversible "brain lesion" generator in 
healthy subjects, enabling experimental investigation of how the brain works.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brs.2014.03.004
PMID: 24797449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


713. Med Humanit. 2014 Dec;40(2):105-10. doi: 10.1136/medhum-2014-010502. Epub 2014 
May 5.

'Only connect': the case for public health humanities.

Saffran L(1).

Author information:
(1)Correspondence to Lise Saffran, University of Missouri Master of Public 
Health Program, 805 Lewis Hall, Columbia, MO 65203, USA; 
Saffranl@health.missouri.edu.

Humanities in health has until now been primarily understood to mean humanities 
in medicine and has generally failed to include public health. I will argue in 
this paper that the common justifications for the former--including increased 
empathy among practitioners--are at least as applicable, if not more, to the 
latter. Growing emphasis on the social determinants of health and cultural 
competency in public health require public health students and professionals to 
develop a nuanced understanding of the influence of social context on health 
behaviour and to empathise with people in difficult circumstances. Literary 
fiction has been demonstrated to have an impact on skills related to empathy and 
social intelligence. Further, translating epidemiological evidence into public 
policy is a core task of public health and there is a growing body of research 
to indicate that statistical evidence is more persuasive when combined with 
narrative evidence. In this article I explore similarities and differences 
between proposed humanities in public health and programmes in humanities in 
medicine and highlight research gaps and possible implications of a more 
expansive view of humanities in health.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not 
already granted under a licence) please go to 
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

DOI: 10.1136/medhum-2014-010502
PMID: 24797768 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


714. J Educ Eval Health Prof. 2014 May 5;11:8. doi: 10.3352/jeehp.2014.11.8.

Assessing study skills among university students: an Iranian survey.

Didarloo A(1), Khalkhali HR(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Education and Promotion, Social Determinants of Health 
Research Center, Urmia, Iran.
(2)Department of Biostatistics, Inpatient Safety Research Center, Faculty of 
Medicine, Urmia University of Medical Sciences, Urmia, Iran.

PURPOSE: Numerous studies have revealed that study skills have a constructive 
role on the academic performance of students, in addition to educational 
quality, student' intelligence, and their affective characteristics. This study 
aims to examine study skills and the factors influencing them among the health 
sciences students of Urmia University of Medical Sciences in Iran.
METHODS: This was a cross-sectional study carried out from May to November 2013. 
A total of 340 Urmia health sciences students were selected using a simple 
sampling method. Data were collected using the Study Skills Assessment 
Questionnaire of Counseling Center of Houston University and analyzed with 
descriptive and analytical statistics.
RESULTS: The mean and standard deviation of the students' study skills were 
172.5±23.2, out of a total score of 240. Around 1.2% of the study skills were 
weak; 86.8%, moderate; and 12%, good. Among the study skills, the scores of time 
management, and memory and concentration were better than the others. Also, 
there was a significant positive correlation between study skills scores and the 
students' family housing status and academic level (P<0.05).
CONCLUSION: Although the majority of the participants had moderate study skills, 
these were not sufficient and far from good. Improving and promoting the study 
skills of university students require the designing and implementing of 
education programs for study strategies. Therefore, decision makers and planners 
in the educational areas of universities should consider the topic described 
above.

DOI: 10.3352/jeehp.2014.11.8
PMCID: PMC4026853
PMID: 24798427


715. J Dev Behav Pediatr. 2014 May;35(4):247-56. doi: 10.1097/DBP.0000000000000037.

Intervention for optimal outcome in children and adolescents with a history of 
autism.

Orinstein AJ(1), Helt M, Troyb E, Tyson KE, Barton ML, Eigsti IM, Naigles L, 
Fein DA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Connecticut, Storrs, CT.

OBJECTIVE: Autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) were once considered lifelong 
disorders, but recent findings indicate that some children with ASDs no longer 
meet diagnostic criteria for any ASD and reach normal cognitive function. These 
children are considered to have achieved "optimal outcomes" (OO). The present 
study aimed to retrospectively examine group differences in the intervention 
history of children and adolescents with OO and those with high-functioning 
autism (HFA).
METHOD: The current study examined intervention histories in 25 individuals with 
OO and 34 individuals with HFA (current age, 8-21 years), who did not differ on 
age, sex, nonverbal intelligence, or family income. Intervention history was 
collected through detailed parent questionnaires.
RESULTS: Children in the OO group had earlier parental concern, received earlier 
referrals to specialists, and had earlier and more intensive intervention than 
those in the HFA group. Substantially more children with OO than HFA received 
applied behavior analysis (ABA) therapy, although for children who received ABA, 
the intensity did not differ between the groups. Children in the HFA group were 
more likely to have received medication, especially antipsychotics and 
antidepressants. There were no group differences in the percent of children 
receiving special diets or supplements.
CONCLUSION: These data suggest that OO individuals generally receive earlier, 
more intense interventions, and more ABA, whereas HFA individuals receive more 
pharmacologic treatments. Although the use of retrospective data is a clear 
limitation to the current study, the substantial differences in the reported 
provision of early intervention, and ABA in particular, is highly suggestive and 
should be replicated in prospective studies.

DOI: 10.1097/DBP.0000000000000037
PMCID: PMC4487510
PMID: 24799263 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
declare


716. J Pediatr. 2014 Jul;165(1):65-72.e2. doi: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2014.03.032. Epub 2014 
May 5.

Longitudinal study of cognitive and academic outcomes after pediatric liver 
transplantation.

Sorensen LG(1), Neighbors K(2), Martz K(3), Zelko F(4), Bucuvalas JC(5), Alonso 
EM(2); Studies of Pediatric Liver Transplantation (SPLIT) Research Group and the 
Functional Outcomes Group (FOG).

Collaborators: Dunn S, Jonas M, Mazariegos G, Mittal N, Daniel JF, Bucuvalas J, 
Ng V, Alonso E, Kerkar N, Shepherd R, Karpen S, Sokol R, Gilmour S, McDiarmid S, 
Rosenthal P, Kato T, Fredricks E, Humar A, Langnas A.

Author information:
(1)Child & Adolescent Psychiatry, Ann & Robert H. Lurie Children's Hospital of 
Chicago, Chicago, IL. Electronic address: Lsorensen@luriechildrens.org.
(2)Pediatrics, Ann & Robert H. Lurie Children's Hospital of Chicago, Chicago, 
IL.
(3)The EMMES Corporation, Rockville, MD.
(4)Child & Adolescent Psychiatry, Ann & Robert H. Lurie Children's Hospital of 
Chicago, Chicago, IL.
(5)Pediatric Liver Care Center, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center, 
Cincinnati, OH.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the evolution of cognitive and academic deficits and 
risk factors in children after liver transplantation.
STUDY DESIGN: Patients ≥2 years after liver transplantation were recruited 
through Studies of Pediatric Liver Transplantation. Participants age 5-6 years 
at Time 1 completed the Wechsler Preschool and Primary Scale of Intelligence, 
3rd edition, Wide Range Achievement Test, 4th edition, and Behavior Rating 
Inventory of Executive Function (BRIEF). Participants were retested at age 7-9 
years, Time 2 (T2), by use of the Wechsler Intelligence Scales for Children, 4th 
edition, Wide Range Achievement Test, 4th edition, and BRIEF. Medical and 
demographic variables significant at P ≤ .10 in univariate analysis were fitted 
to repeated measures modeling predicting Full Scale IQ (FSIQ).
RESULTS: Of 144 patients tested at time 1, 93 (65%) completed T2; returning 
patients did not differ on medical or demographic variables. At T2, more 
participants than expected had below-average FSIQ, Verbal Comprehension, Working 
Memory, and Math Computation, as well as increased executive deficits on teacher 
BRIEF. Processing Speed approached significance. At T2, 29% (14% expected) had 
FSIQ = 71-85, and 7% (2% expected) had FSIQ ≤70 (P = .0001). A total of 42% 
received special education. Paired comparisons revealed that, over time, 
cognitive and math deficits persisted; only reading improved. Modeling 
identified household status (P < .002), parent education (P < .01), weight 
z-score at liver transplantation (P < .03), and transfusion volume during liver 
transplantation (P < .0001) as predictors of FSIQ.
CONCLUSIONS: More young liver transplantation recipients than expected are at 
increased risk for lasting cognitive and academic deficits. Pretransplant 
markers of nutritional status and operative complications predicted intellectual 
outcome.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2014.03.032
PMCID: PMC4152855
PMID: 24801243 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


717. Eur Child Adolesc Psychiatry. 2014 Nov;23(11):1061-70. doi: 
10.1007/s00787-014-0551-x. Epub 2014 May 7.

Nonverbal intelligence in young children with dysregulation: the Generation R 
Study.

Basten M(1), van der Ende J, Tiemeier H, Althoff RR, Rijlaarsdam J, Jaddoe VW, 
Hofman A, Hudziak JJ, Verhulst FC, White T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry/Psychology, Erasmus Medical 
Center, Sophia Children's Hospital, P.O. Box 2060, 3000 CB, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands.

Children meeting the Child Behavior Checklist Dysregulation Profile (CBCL-DP) 
suffer from high levels of co-occurring internalizing and externalizing 
problems. Little is known about the cognitive abilities of these children with 
CBCL-DP. We examined the relationship between CBCL-DP and nonverbal 
intelligence. Parents of 6,131 children from a population-based birth cohort, 
aged 5 through 7 years, reported problem behavior on the CBCL/1.5-5. The CBCL-DP 
was derived using latent profile analysis on the CBCL/1.5-5 syndrome scales. 
Nonverbal intelligence was assessed using the Snijders Oomen Nonverbal 
Intelligence Test 2.5-7-Revised. We examined the relationship between CBCL-DP 
and nonverbal intelligence using linear regression. Analyses were adjusted for 
parental intelligence, parental psychiatric symptoms, socio-economic status, and 
perinatal factors. In a subsample with diagnostic interview data, we tested if 
the results were independent of the presence of attention deficit hyperactivity 
disorder (ADHD) or autism spectrum disorders (ASD). The results showed that 
children meeting the CBCL-DP (n = 110, 1.8%) had a 11.0 point lower nonverbal 
intelligence level than children without problems and 7.2-7.3 points lower 
nonverbal intelligence level than children meeting other profiles of problem 
behavior (all p values <0.001). After adjustment for covariates, children with 
CBCL-DP scored 8.3 points lower than children without problems (p < 0.001). The 
presence of ADHD or ASD did not account for the lower nonverbal intelligence in 
children with CBCL-DP. In conclusion, we found that children with CBCL-DP have a 
considerable lower nonverbal intelligence score. The CBCL-DP and nonverbal 
intelligence may share a common neurodevelopmental etiology.

DOI: 10.1007/s00787-014-0551-x
PMID: 24802760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


718. Clin Teach. 2014 Jun;11(3):170-3. doi: 10.1111/tct.12123.

Defining insight: a challenge that matters.

Brown N(1), McAvoy P, Joffe M.

Author information:
(1)National Clinical Assessment Service (NCAS), London, UK.

BACKGROUND: Insight is a fundamental consideration in the maintenance and 
improvement of performance. What is required is a definition that can be used 
consistently along with an understanding of the dynamic nature of insight, and 
therefore its potential for improvement.
CONTEXT: The work presented is a review of contemporary literature about 
insight, self-awareness and emotional intelligence, and experience from the 
National Clinical Assessment Service (NCAS) in the assessment of 300 doctors 
with performance problems.
SUMMARY OF RESULTS: This work has led to the construction of a working 
definition of insight that incorporates reflection, emotional intelligence, 
self-awareness and motivation. The validity and utility of this definition was 
tested using data from NCAS's growing experience.
CONCLUSIONS: The assessment of insight in NCAS performance assessments has 
involved the use of information from a variety of sources, including 
psychometric profiling, multisource feedback and self-assessment. This has been 
corroborated with findings from clinical performance assessment and the outcomes 
of remediation plans.
IMPLICATIONS: A definition of insight is offered that is greater than just 
self-awareness, and that involves emotional intelligence and motivation. The use 
of this broad definition is of fundamental importance in the production of 
educational and development programmes at all levels.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/tct.12123
PMID: 24802915 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


719. Surg Innov. 2015 Feb;22(1):77-82. doi: 10.1177/1553350614531659. Epub 2014 May 
6.

A smart trocar for automatic tool recognition in laparoscopic surgery.

Toti G(1), Garbey M(2), Sherman V(3), Bass BL(4), Dunkin BJ(4).

Author information:
(1)University of Houston, Houston, TX, USA gtoti@uh.edu.
(2)University of Houston, Houston, TX, USA Methodist Institute for Technology, 
Innovation and Education, Houston, TX, USA.
(3)Houston Methodist Hospital, Houston, TX, USA.
(4)Methodist Institute for Technology, Innovation and Education, Houston, TX, 
USA Houston Methodist Hospital, Houston, TX, USA.

BACKGROUND: Operating rooms have become increasingly complex environments and 
more prone to errors because of loss of situation awareness. Adding computer 
intelligence to the operating room may help overcome these limitations 
particularly if the system can automatically track which step of an operation a 
surgeon is performing. To develop such a platform, it is necessary to track 
which laparoscopic instruments are being used and in which port they are 
inserted. This article describes the development and validation of a "Smart 
Trocar" that can automatically perform this function.
METHODS: A Smart Trocar system prototype was developed that uses a wireless 
camera attached to a standard laparoscopic port and custom software algorithms. 
The system recognizes color wheels attached to the handle of a laparoscopic 
instrument and compares the unique color pattern to an instrument library for 
proper tool identification. The system was tested for reliability in a box 
trainer environment using a variety of tool positions and levels of room light 
illumination.
RESULTS: Correct color classification was achieved in 96.7% of trials. There 
were no errors in detection of the color wheel in space. In addition, the 
distance of the color wheel from the camera did not influence results and 
correct classifications were evenly distributed among the 12 laparoscopic tool 
positions tested.
CONCLUSION: This work describes a Smart Trocar system that identifies which 
laparoscopic tool is being used and in which port and proves its reliability. 
The system is an important element of a more comprehensive program being 
developed to automatically understand what step of an operation a surgeon is 
performing and use these data to improve situation awareness in the operating 
room.

© The Author(s) 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/1553350614531659
PMID: 24803524 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


720. Behav Neurol. 2014;2014:875960. doi: 10.1155/2014/875960. Epub 2014 Apr 1.

Vocabulary is an appropriate measure of premorbid intelligence in a sample with 
heterogeneous educational level in Brazil.

de Oliveira MO(1), Nitrini R(2), Yassuda MS(3), Brucki SM(1).

Author information:
(1)Behavioral and Cognitive Neurology Unit, Faculdade de Medicina da 
Universidade de São Paulo (FMUSP), 255 Avenue Dr. Enéas de Carvalho Aguiar, São 
Paulo 05403-900, SP, Brazil ; Cognitive Disorders Reference Center (CEREDIC), 
Faculdade de Medicina da Universidade de São Paulo (FMUSP), 206 Rua Arruda 
Alvim, Cerqueira Cesar, São Paulo 05419-020, SP, Brazil ; Santa Marcelina 
Hospital, Neurology Department, 360 Rua Santa Marcelina, Vila Carmosina, São 
Paulo 08270-070, SP, Brazil.
(2)Behavioral and Cognitive Neurology Unit, Faculdade de Medicina da 
Universidade de São Paulo (FMUSP), 255 Avenue Dr. Enéas de Carvalho Aguiar, São 
Paulo 05403-900, SP, Brazil ; Cognitive Disorders Reference Center (CEREDIC), 
Faculdade de Medicina da Universidade de São Paulo (FMUSP), 206 Rua Arruda 
Alvim, Cerqueira Cesar, São Paulo 05419-020, SP, Brazil.
(3)Behavioral and Cognitive Neurology Unit, Faculdade de Medicina da 
Universidade de São Paulo (FMUSP), 255 Avenue Dr. Enéas de Carvalho Aguiar, São 
Paulo 05403-900, SP, Brazil ; School of Arts, Sciences and Humanities, 
Universidade de São Paulo, 1000 Avenue Arlindo Bettio, São Paulo 03828-000, SP, 
Brazil.

Crystallized intelligence refers to one's knowledge base and can be measured by 
vocabulary tests. Fluid intelligence is related to nonverbal aspects of 
intelligence, depends very little on previously acquired knowledge, and can be 
measured by tests such as Block Design (BD) and Raven Colored Matrices (RCM). 
Premorbid intelligence quotient (IQ) refers to one's intellectual ability level 
previous to the onset of disorders like mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) and it is important to estimate disease severity. The 
objective was to compare performance in tests that measure crystallized and 
fluid intelligence in healthy subjects and patients with amnestic MCI (aMCI) and 
AD. One hundred forty-four participants (aMCI (n = 38), AD (n = 45), and healthy 
controls (n = 61)) were submitted to neuropsychological tests (WAIS-III 
vocabulary, BD, and RCM). There were significant among groups, except for 
vocabulary, indicating a relative stability of crystallized intelligence in the 
continuum from normal to pathological cognitive decline. Vocabulary seems to be 
stable during the progression of the disease and useful as a measure of 
premorbid intelligence, that is, to estimate previous function in relation to 
the level of education and, as a collateral measure of cognition in people with 
low education.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/875960
PMCID: PMC4006600
PMID: 24803737 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


721. Plast Reconstr Surg. 2014 Sep;134(3):491-501. doi: 10.1097/PRS.0000000000000420.

The effects of whole-vault cranioplasty versus strip craniectomy on long-term 
neuropsychological outcomes in sagittal craniosynostosis.

Hashim PW(1), Patel A, Yang JF, Travieso R, Terner J, Losee JE, Pollack I, Jane 
J Sr, Jane J Jr, Kanev P, Mayes L, Duncan C, Bridgett DJ, Persing JA.

Author information:
(1)New Haven and Hartford, Conn.; Pittsburgh, Pa.; Charlottesville, Va.; and 
DeKalb, Ill. From the Section of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, Yale 
University School of Medicine; the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine; 
the Department of Neurosurgery, University of Virginia School of Medicine; the 
Craniofacial Surgery Center, Connecticut Children's Medical Center; and the 
Department of Psychology, Northern Illinois University.

Comment in
    Plast Reconstr Surg. 2014 Sep;134(3):502-3.
    Plast Reconstr Surg. 2015 Mar;135(3):646e-647e.
    Plast Reconstr Surg. 2015 Mar;135(3):647e-648e.
    Plast Reconstr Surg. 2015 May;135(5):925e-926e.
    Plast Reconstr Surg. 2015 May;135(5):926e-927e.
    Plast Reconstr Surg. 2015 Jul;136(1):115e-117e.
    Plast Reconstr Surg. 2015 Jul;136(1):114e-115e.

BACKGROUND: The optimal type of surgical management for isolated sagittal 
synostosis remains a source of significant debate. There is a paucity of data 
regarding possible differences in long-term neuropsychological outcomes 
following treatment with whole-vault cranioplasty or endoscopic strip 
craniectomy. This study provides the first comparative analysis examining the 
effects of the two techniques related to long-term intellectual functioning.
METHODS: A total of 70 patients were enrolled in this multicenter study, 29 of 
whom had previously undergone endoscopic strip craniectomy and 41 of whom had 
previously undergone whole-vault cranioplasty. All patients completed a battery 
of neurodevelopmental tests (Beery-Buktenica Developmental Test of Visual-Motor 
Integration, Wechsler Abbreviated Scale of Intelligence, and Wechsler 
Fundamentals) to evaluate various domains of neuropsychological function.
RESULTS: In a group comparison of those treated before 6 months of age, 
whole-vault patients obtained higher scores relative to endoscopic strip 
craniectomy patients on visuomotor integration, full-scale intelligence 
quotient, verbal intelligence quotient, word reading, and reading comprehension 
(p < 0.05 for all). When compared against strip craniectomy performed before 3 
months of age, the whole-vault group still showed significantly higher scores in 
verbal intelligence quotient, reading comprehension, and word reading (p < 0.05 
for all).
CONCLUSIONS: The type of surgical intervention for isolated sagittal synostosis 
impacts long-term neuropsychological outcomes. Patients undergoing early 
whole-vault cranioplasty attained higher intelligence quotient and achievement 
scores relative to those undergoing strip craniectomy. Surgical management with 
whole-vault cranioplasty performed before 6 months of age provides the most 
favorable long-term intellectual outcomes in patients with isolated sagittal 
synostosis.
CLINICAL QUESTION/LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Therapeutic, II.

DOI: 10.1097/PRS.0000000000000420
PMID: 24804639 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


722. PLoS One. 2014 May 7;9(5):e95780. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0095780. eCollection 
2014.

Confirming the cognition of rising scores: Fox and Mitchum (2013) predicts 
violations of measurement invariance in series completion between age-matched 
cohorts.

Fox MC(1), Mitchum AL(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Richmond, Richmond, Virginia, United 
States of America.
(2)Department of Psychology, Florida State University, Tallahassee, Florida, 
United States of America.

The trend of rising scores on intelligence tests raises important questions 
about the comparability of variation within and between time periods. 
Descriptions of the processes that mediate selection of item responses provide 
meaningful psychological criteria upon which to base such comparisons. In a 
recent paper, Fox and Mitchum presented and tested a cognitive theory of rising 
scores on analogical and inductive reasoning tests that is specific enough to 
make novel predictions about cohort differences in patterns of item responses 
for tests such as the Raven's Matrices. In this paper we extend the same 
proposal in two important ways by (1) testing it against a dataset that enables 
the effects of cohort to be isolated from those of age, and (2) applying it to 
two other inductive reasoning tests that exhibit large Flynn effects: Letter 
Series and Word Series. Following specification and testing of a confirmatory 
item response model, predicted violations of measurement invariance are observed 
between two age-matched cohorts that are separated by only 20 years, as members 
of the later cohort are found to map objects at higher levels of abstraction 
than members of the earlier cohort who possess the same overall level of 
ability. Results have implications for the Flynn effect and cognitive aging 
while underscoring the value of establishing psychological criteria for equating 
members of distinct groups who achieve the same scores.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0095780
PMCID: PMC4012997
PMID: 24806478 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


723. Glob Adv Health Med. 2014 Mar;3(2):56-65. doi: 10.7453/gahmj.2014.013.

Intuitive Intelligence, Self-regulation, and Lifting Consciousness.

McCraty R(1), Zayas M(2).

Author information:
(1)HeartMath Research Center, Institute of HeartMath, Boulder Creek, California 
(Dr McCraty), United States.
(2)Brenau University, Gainesville, Georgia (Dr Zayas), United States.

This article explores the role of the heart in emotional experience, as well as 
how learning to shift the rhythms of the heart into a more coherent state makes 
it possible to establish a new inner baseline reference that allows access to 
our heart's intuitive capacities and deeper wisdom. The nature and types of 
intuition and the connection between intuition and compassionate action are 
discussed. It is suggested that increased effectiveness in self-regulatory 
capacity and the resultant reorganization of memories sustained in the neural 
architecture facilitates a stable and integrated experience of self in 
relationship to others and to the environment, otherwise known as consciousness. 
The implications of meeting the increasingly complex demands of life with 
greater love, compassion, and kindness, thereby lifting consciousness, are 
considered.

DOI: 10.7453/gahmj.2014.013
PMCID: PMC4010961
PMID: 24808982


724. Psychophysiology. 2014 Sep;51(9):932-41. doi: 10.1111/psyp.12233. Epub 2014 May 
9.

Cardiac sensitivity in children: sex differences and its relationship to 
parameters of emotional processing.

Koch A(1), Pollatos O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Faculty of Human Sciences, University of Potsdam, 
Potsdam, Germany.

In adults, the level of ability to perceive one's own body signals plays an 
important role for many concepts of emotional experience as demonstrated for 
emotion processing or emotion regulation. Representative data on perception of 
body signals and its emotional correlates in children is lacking. Therefore, the 
present study investigated the cardiac sensitivity of 1,350 children between 6 
and 11 years of age in a heartbeat perception task. Our main findings 
demonstrated the distribution of cardiac sensitivity in children as well as 
associations with interpersonal emotional intelligence and adaptability. 
Furthermore, independent of body mass index, boys showed a significantly higher 
cardiac sensitivity than girls. We conclude that cardiac sensitivity in children 
appears to show weaker but similar characteristics and relations to emotional 
parameters as found in adults, so that a dynamic developmental process can be 
assumed.

Copyright © 2014 Society for Psychophysiological Research.

DOI: 10.1111/psyp.12233
PMID: 24810627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


725. Twin Res Hum Genet. 2014 Jun;17(3):151-63. doi: 10.1017/thg.2014.26. Epub 2014 
May 9.

Genetic and environmental stability of intelligence in childhood and 
adolescence.

Franić S(1), Dolan CV(1), van Beijsterveldt CE(1), Hulshoff Pol HE(2), Bartels 
M(1), Boomsma DI(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Psychology,VU University Amsterdam,Amsterdam,The 
Netherlands.
(2)Neuroimaging Research Group,University Medical Center Utrecht,Utrecht,The 
Netherlands.

The present study examined the genetic and environmental contributions to the 
temporal stability of verbal, non-verbal and general intelligence across a 
developmental period spanning childhood and adolescence (5-18 years). 
Longitudinal twin data collected in four different studies on a total of 1,748 
twins, comprising 4,641 measurement points in total, were analyzed using genetic 
adaptations of the simplex model. The heterogeneity in the type of instrument 
used to assess psychometric intelligence across the different subsamples and 
ages allowed us to address the auxiliary question of how to optimally utilize 
the existing longitudinal data in the context of gene-finding studies. The 
results were consistent across domains (verbal, non-verbal and general 
intelligence), and indicated that phenotypic stability was driven primarily by 
the high stability of additive genetic factors, that the stability of common 
environment was moderate, and that the unique environment contributed primarily 
to change. The cross-subscale stability was consistently low, indicating a small 
overlap between different domains of intelligence over time. The high stability 
of additive genetic factors justifies the use of a linear combination of scores 
across the different ages in the context of gene-finding studies.

DOI: 10.1017/thg.2014.26
PMID: 24811143 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


726. Comput Intell Neurosci. 2014;2014:919406. doi: 10.1155/2014/919406. Epub 2014 
Apr 9.

Object detection based on template matching through use of best-so-far ABC.

Banharnsakun A(1), Tanathong S(2).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory for Computational Intelligence, Faculty of Engineering at 
Sriracha, Kasetsart University Sriracha Campus, Chonburi 20230, Thailand.
(2)Laboratory for Sensor and Modeling, Department of Geoinformatics, University 
of Seoul, Seoul 130-743, Republic of Korea.

Best-so-far ABC is a modified version of the artificial bee colony (ABC) 
algorithm used for optimization tasks. This algorithm is one of the swarm 
intelligence (SI) algorithms proposed in recent literature, in which the results 
demonstrated that the best-so-far ABC can produce higher quality solutions with 
faster convergence than either the ordinary ABC or the current state-of-the-art 
ABC-based algorithm. In this work, we aim to apply the best-so-far ABC-based 
approach for object detection based on template matching by using the difference 
between the RGB level histograms corresponding to the target object and the 
template object as the objective function. Results confirm that the proposed 
method was successful in both detecting objects and optimizing the time used to 
reach the solution.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/919406
PMCID: PMC4000638
PMID: 24812556 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


727. Biomed Res Int. 2014;2014:341483. doi: 10.1155/2014/341483. Epub 2014 Apr 9.

An intelligent clinical decision support system for patient-specific predictions 
to improve cervical intraepithelial neoplasia detection.

Bountris P(1), Haritou M(2), Pouliakis A(3), Margari N(3), Kyrgiou M(4), Spathis 
A(3), Pappas A(5), Panayiotides I(6), Paraskevaidis EA(7), Karakitsos P(3), 
Koutsouris DD(1).

Author information:
(1)Biomedical Engineering Laboratory, School of Electrical and Computer 
Engineering, National Technical University of Athens, Iroon Politechniou 9, 
15773 Zografou Campus, Athens, Greece.
(2)Institute of Communication and Computer Systems, National Technical 
University of Athens, Iroon Politechniou 9, 15773 Zografou Campus, Athens, 
Greece.
(3)Department of Cytopathology, School of Medicine, University General Hospital 
"ATTIKON", University of Athens, Rimini 1, 12462 Athens, Greece.
(4)West London Gynaecological Cancer Center, Queen Charlotte's and Chelsea, 
Hammersmith Hospital, Imperial Healthcare NHS Trust, London W12 0HS, UK ; 
Division of Surgery and Cancer, Faculty of Medicine, Imperial College, London 
W12 0NN, UK.
(5)3rd Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University General Hospital 
"ATTIKON", School of Medicine, University of Athens, Rimini 1, 12462 Athens, 
Greece.
(6)2nd Department of Pathology, University General Hospital "ATTIKON", School of 
Medicine, University of Athens, Rimini 1, 12462 Athens, Greece.
(7)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University Hospital of Ioannina, St. 
Niarchou Str, 45500 Ioannina, Greece.

Nowadays, there are molecular biology techniques providing information related 
to cervical cancer and its cause: the human Papillomavirus (HPV), including DNA 
microarrays identifying HPV subtypes, mRNA techniques such as nucleic acid based 
amplification or flow cytometry identifying E6/E7 oncogenes, and 
immunocytochemistry techniques such as overexpression of p16. Each one of these 
techniques has its own performance, limitations and advantages, thus a 
combinatorial approach via computational intelligence methods could exploit the 
benefits of each method and produce more accurate results. In this article we 
propose a clinical decision support system (CDSS), composed by artificial neural 
networks, intelligently combining the results of classic and ancillary 
techniques for diagnostic accuracy improvement. We evaluated this method on 740 
cases with complete series of cytological assessment, molecular tests, and 
colposcopy examination. The CDSS demonstrated high sensitivity (89.4%), high 
specificity (97.1%), high positive predictive value (89.4%), and high negative 
predictive value (97.1%), for detecting cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 
2 or worse (CIN2+). In comparison to the tests involved in this study and their 
combinations, the CDSS produced the most balanced results in terms of 
sensitivity, specificity, PPV, and NPV. The proposed system may reduce the 
referral rate for colposcopy and guide personalised management and therapeutic 
interventions.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/341483
PMCID: PMC4000928
PMID: 24812614 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


728. Zhongguo Zhong Xi Yi Jie He Za Zhi. 2014 Apr;34(4):431-4.

[Treatment of cerebral palsy children by integrative medical sequential method: 
a clinical efficacy observation].

[Article in Chinese]

Wang LF, Zhang J, Chen XC, He L, Zhao XY.

OBJECTIVE: To observe the efficacy of integrative medical sequential method in 
treating cerebral palsy (CP) children's intelligence development, muscular 
tension, serum interleukin 6 (IL-6), and tumor necrosis factor alpha 
(TNF-alpha).
METHODS: Totally 111 CP children were randomly assigned to the control group (50 
cases) and the treatment group (61 cases). All patients received comprehensive 
rehabilitation training and intravenous dripping of 
Monosialotetrahexosylganglioside Sodium Injection for 10 days. But those in the 
treatment group additionally received Chinese medical enema for brain 
resuscitation, relieving rigidity of muscles and activating collaterals for 14 
days. Then they started another medication cycle and lasted for a total of 6 
cycles. Serum IL-6 levels and TNF-alpha contents were determined before 
treatment. Scoring for muscular tension, Gesell score for intelligence 
development, contents of serum IL-6 and TNF-alpha were assessed before and after 
treatment in the two groups.
RESULTS: Compared with before treatment in this group, muscular tension, Gesell 
scores for intelligence development all decreased in the two groups (P < 0.05). 
As for inter-group comparison, the decrement was more obvious in the treatment 
group than in the control group (P < 0.05). The total effective rate was 86.9% 
in the treatment group and 76.0% in the control group (P < 0.05). The contents 
of IL-6 and TNF-alpha were obviously reduced in the treatment group and the 
control group after treatment (P < 0.01). The decrement was more obvious in the 
treatment group (P < 0.05).
CONCLUSION: The two treatment methods were effective for CP children, but the 
efficacy was superior in the treatment group than in the control group, 
indicating integrative medical methods could play a synergistic effect and 
optimize the treatment program for CP.

PMID: 24812898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


729. Neurology. 2014 Jun 10;82(23):2127-38. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000000505. Epub 
2014 May 9.

Presence and progression of white matter hyperintensities and cognition: a 
meta-analysis.

Kloppenborg RP(1), Nederkoorn PJ(2), Geerlings MI(2), van den Berg E(2).

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Neurology (R.P.K., P.J.N.), Academic Medical Center, 
Amsterdam; Julius Center for Health Sciences and Primary Care (R.P.K., M.I.G.) 
and Department of Neurology (R.P.K.), University Medical Center Utrecht; 
Experimental Psychology (E.v.d.B.), Helmholtz Institute, Utrecht University; and 
the Department of Neurology (E.v.d.B.), Rudolf Magnus Institute of Neuroscience, 
University Medical Center, Utrecht, the Netherlands. 
r.p.kloppenborg-4@umcutrecht.nl.
(2)From the Department of Neurology (R.P.K., P.J.N.), Academic Medical Center, 
Amsterdam; Julius Center for Health Sciences and Primary Care (R.P.K., M.I.G.) 
and Department of Neurology (R.P.K.), University Medical Center Utrecht; 
Experimental Psychology (E.v.d.B.), Helmholtz Institute, Utrecht University; and 
the Department of Neurology (E.v.d.B.), Rudolf Magnus Institute of Neuroscience, 
University Medical Center, Utrecht, the Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: We aimed to quantify the effects of white matter hyperintensities 
(WMHs) on specific cognitive functions with particular attention to WMH 
progression and localization.
METHODS: PubMed (January 1990-July 2013) and bibliographies from included 
articles were used. Studies that were included (1) used MRI; (2) had a 
population-based or case-control design with a healthy control group that could 
be used for analysis; (3) matched/adjusted for age, sex, and education; and (4) 
addressed ≥1 predefined cognitive domains with ≥1 validated neuropsychological 
tests. Data were independently extracted by 2 investigators. Pearson r was 
extracted/calculated and used as the common metric for the effect size across 
studies.
RESULTS: Twenty-three cross-sectional and 14 longitudinal studies were included 
with a total of 8,685 and 7,731 participants. Presence of WMHs was significantly 
associated with concurrent cognitive deficits in all examined domains: general 
intelligence (Fisher z -0.10, 95% confidence interval [CI] -0.19 to -0.04), 
memory (-0.08, -0.13 to -0.06), processing speed (-0.11, -0.17 to -0.07), 
attention and executive functions (-0.11, -0.16 to -0.07), and 
perception/construction (-0.15, -0.21 to -0.07). Similar effect sizes were 
observed for cognitive decline over time. WMH progression was associated with 
greater cognitive decline, particularly for general intelligence (Fisher z 
-0.31, 95% CI -0.5 to -0.02) and attention and executive functions (-0.32, -0.34 
to -0.28).
CONCLUSIONS: The small but robust and consistent effects of WMHs on all 
cognitive domains suggest a more global effect on cognition than previously 
thought. Progression of WMHs was associated with even worse cognitive 
functioning, most pronounced in attention and executive functioning.

© 2014 American Academy of Neurology.

DOI: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000000505
PMID: 24814849 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


730. Brain Dev. 2015 Feb;37(2):250-64. doi: 10.1016/j.braindev.2014.04.007. Epub 2014 
May 9.

Electrical status epilepticus during sleep: a study of 22 patients.

Değerliyurt A(1), Yalnizoğlu D(2), Bakar EE(2), Topçu M(2), Turanli G(2).

Author information:
(1)Hacettepe University, Department of Pediatric Neurology, Ankara, Turkey. 
Electronic address: degerliyurta@gmail.com.
(2)Hacettepe University, Department of Pediatric Neurology, Ankara, Turkey.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to evaluate the clinical and imaging 
characteristics, treatment results, and prognosis of patients with electrical 
status epilepticus during sleep (ESES).
METHOD: A total of 22 patients with ESES pattern on EEG were retrospectively 
studied.
RESULTS: The first neurological symptoms were seen at a mean age of 4.4years. 
The first symptoms in 77% of the patients were seizures. Other symptoms were 
hyperactivity, restlessness, insomnia, disinhibition, autistic behavior, speech 
retardation and deterioration in school performance. Diagnosis of ESES was made 
at a mean age of 7.45years, approximately 3years after the first symptom. 
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was abnormal in 36% of the patients. Single 
photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) showed focal hypoperfusion after 
resolution of ESES involving left temporoparietal and right posterior temporal 
areas in four patients including three with normal MRI, and one with 
periventricular leukomalacia without focal cortical lesion. First line treatment 
with valproic acid monotherapy was not effective. Electrical status epilepticus 
during sleep disappeared in 82% of the patients on clobazam and 70% of the 
patients on clonazepam in combination with valproic acid within a few months. 
Topiramate was not found to be effective. A significant decrease in intelligence 
quotient (IQ) scores was found in 66% of the patients compared to the baseline.
CONCLUSIONS: ESES should be considered in children with new onset behavioral, 
cognitive, and speech problems with or without seizures. The high frequency of 
focal seizures and focal findings on SPECT suggest a focal origin. Clonazepam 
and clobazam were most effective in our cohort.

Copyright © 2014 The Japanese Society of Child Neurology. Published by Elsevier 
B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.braindev.2014.04.007
PMID: 24815826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


731. Neuroimage. 2014 Oct 15;100:676-83. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2014.04.072. Epub 
2014 May 9.

Heritability of brain volume change and its relation to intelligence.

Brouwer RM(1), Hedman AM(2), van Haren NE(2), Schnack HG(2), Brans RG(2), Smit 
DJ(3), Kahn RS(2), Boomsma DI(4), Hulshoff Pol HE(2).

Author information:
(1)Brain Center Rudolf Magnus, Department of Psychiatry, University Medical 
Center Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands. Electronic address: 
r.m.brouwer-4@umcutrecht.nl.
(2)Brain Center Rudolf Magnus, Department of Psychiatry, University Medical 
Center Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Biological Psychology, Free University, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands; Neuroscience Campus, VU University, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(4)Department of Biological Psychology, Free University, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.

Human brain volumes change throughout life, are highly heritable, and have been 
associated with general cognitive functioning. Cross-sectionally, this 
association between volume and cognition can largely be attributed to the same 
genes influencing both traits. We address the question whether longitudinal 
changes in brain volume or in surface area in young adults are under genetic 
control and whether these changes are also related to general cognitive 
functioning. We measured change in brain volume and surface area over a 5-year 
interval in 176 monozygotic and dizygotic twins and their non-twin siblings aged 
19 to 56, using magnetic resonance imaging. Results show that changes in volumes 
of total brain (mean = -6.4 ml; 0.5% loss), cerebellum (1.4 ml, 1.0% increase), 
cerebral white matter (4.4 ml, 0.9% increase), lateral ventricles (0.6 ml; 4.8% 
increase) and in surface area (-19.7 cm(2),1.1% contraction) are heritable (h(2) 
= 43%; 52%; 29%; 31%; and 33%, respectively). An association between IQ 
(available for 91 participants) and brain volume change was observed, which was 
attributed to genes involved in both the variation in change in brain volume and 
in intelligence. Thus, dynamic changes in brain structure are heritable and may 
have cognitive significance in adulthood.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2014.04.072
PMID: 24816534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


732. Pak J Pharm Sci. 2014 May;27(3 Suppl):729-34.

Web-based e-learning and virtual lab of human-artificial immune system.

Gong T(1), Ding Y(2), Xiong Q(3).

Author information:
(1)College of Information Science and Technology, Donghua University, Shanghai, 
China / Engr. Research Center of Digitized Textile & Fashion Tech. for Ministry 
of Education, Donghua Univ., Shanghai, China / Department of Computer Science, 
Purdue University, West Lafayette, USA.
(2)College of Information Science and Technology, Donghua University, Shanghai, 
China / Engr. Research Center of Digitized Textile & Fashion Tech. for Ministry 
of Education, Donghua Univ., Shanghai, China.
(3)College of Information Science and Technology, Donghua University, Shanghai, 
China.

Human immune system is as important in keeping the body healthy as the brain in 
supporting the intelligence. However, the traditional models of the human immune 
system are built on the mathematics equations, which are not easy for students 
to understand. To help the students to understand the immune systems, a 
web-based e-learning approach with virtual lab is designed for the intelligent 
system control course by using new intelligent educational technology. Comparing 
the traditional graduate educational model within the classroom, the web-based 
e-learning with the virtual lab shows the higher inspiration in guiding the 
graduate students to think independently and innovatively, as the students said. 
It has been found that this web-based immune e-learning system with the online 
virtual lab is useful for teaching the graduate students to understand the 
immune systems in an easier way and design their simulations more creatively and 
cooperatively. The teaching practice shows that the optimum web-based e-learning 
system can be used to increase the learning effectiveness of the students.

PMID: 24816704 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


733. Neuropsychology. 2014 Sep;28(5):752-60. doi: 10.1037/neu0000065. Epub 2014 May 
12.

Cognitive performance in high-altitude Andean residents compared with 
low-altitude populations: from childhood to older age.

Hill CM(1), Dimitriou D(2), Baya A(3), Webster R(4), Gavlak-Dingle J(5), 
Lesperance V(1), Heathcote K(6), Bucks RS(7).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Experimental Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, University of 
Southampton.
(2)Department of Psychology and Human Development, Institute of Education, 
University of London.
(3)Department of Psychology, Universidad Privada de Santa Cruz de la Sierra.
(4)Laboratory for Cancer Medicine, Western Australian Institute for Medical 
Research.
(5)Institute of Child Health, University College.
(6)Department of Otolaryngology, Poole General Hospital.
(7)School of Psychology, University of Western Australia.

OBJECTIVES: To assess cognition in populations born and living at high altitude 
(HA; 3,700 m) and low altitude (LA; 500 m) in Bolivia, who were similar for both 
socioeconomic status and genetic ancestry. To determine whether HA hypoxia 
influences cognitive decline across the life span.
METHOD: In total, 191 healthy participants aged 4 to 85 years were assessed at 
HA (N = 94; 33; 35% male) and LA (N = 97; 46, 47% male) on a battery of 
cognitive tasks: fluid intelligence, attention, short- and long-term memory, and 
psychomotor speed. Saliva samples were obtained for evaluation of genetic 
ancestry.
RESULTS: HA participants were significantly slower on measures of processing 
speed and speed of attention than individuals born and living at LA. HA 
participants had slightly higher percentage of native Andean ancestry than LA 
participants, but this was not associated with cognitive performance.
CONCLUSIONS: This is the first study of HA residence and neurocognition across 
the life span. Given the physiological challenges of HA living, the impact on 
cognition appears to be subtle and related only to the speed of more complex 
cognitive operations, rather than to their accuracy. Moreover, the impact on 
cognition does not appear to differ with increasing age or for different degrees 
of genetic admixture. Further studies recruiting HA participants with a broader 
range of native Andean ancestry will help to address the issue of to what extent 
Amerindian ancestry provides neuroprotection to chronic hypoxia in those living 
at HA.

(c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/neu0000065
PMID: 24819068 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


734. Pediatrics. 2014 Jun;133(6):e1655-63. doi: 10.1542/peds.2013-3011. Epub 2014 May 
12.

Common genetic variants and risk of brain injury after preterm birth.

Boardman JP(1), Walley A(2), Ball G(3), Takousis P(4), Krishnan ML(3), 
Hughes-Carre L(5), Aljabar P(3), Serag A(6), King C(5), Merchant N(3), 
Srinivasan L(5), Froguel P(7), Hajnal J(3), Rueckert D(8), Counsell S(3), 
Edwards AD(3).

Author information:
(1)Medical Research Council/University of Edinburgh Centre for Reproductive 
Health, Edinburgh, United Kingdom; james.boardman@ed.ac.uk.
(2)Departments of Genomics of Common Disease, School of Public Health,Molecular 
Genetics and Genomics, National Heart and Lung Institute.
(3)Centre for the Developing Brain, King's College London, London, England, 
United Kingdom;
(4)Departments of Genomics of Common Disease, School of Public Health.
(5)Paediatrics, and.
(6)The Advanced Pediatric Brain Imaging Research Laboratory, Children's National 
Medical Center, Washington, District of Columbia; and.
(7)Departments of Genomics of Common Disease, School of Public Health,Centre 
National de la Recherche Scientifique-CNRS 8199, Lille 2 University, Paris, 
France.
(8)Computing, Imperial College London, London, England, United Kingdom;

BACKGROUND: The role of heritable factors in determining the common neurologic 
deficits seen after preterm birth is unknown, but the characteristic phenotype 
of neurocognitive, neuroanatomical, and growth abnormalities allows principled 
selection of candidate genes to test the hypothesis that common genetic 
variation modulates the risk for brain injury.
METHODS: We collected an MRI-linked genomic DNA library from 83 preterm infants 
and genotyped tag single nucleotide polymorphisms in 13 relevant candidate 
genes. We used tract-based spatial statistics and deformation-based morphometry 
to examine the risks conferred by carriage of particular alleles at tag single 
nucleotide polymorphisms in a restricted number of genes and related these to 
the preterm cerebral endophenotype.
RESULTS: Carriage of the minor allele at rs2518824 in the armadillo repeat gene 
deleted in velocardiofacial syndrome (ARVCF) gene, which has been linked to 
neuronal migration and schizophrenia, and rs174576 in the fatty acid desaturase 
2 gene, which encodes a rate-limiting enzyme for endogenous long chain 
polyunsaturated fatty acid synthesis and has been linked to intelligence, was 
associated with white matter abnormality measured in vivo using diffusion tensor 
imaging (P = .0009 and P = .0019, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that genetic variants modulate white matter 
injury after preterm birth, and known susceptibilities to neurologic status in 
later life may be exposed by the stress of premature exposure to the 
extrauterine environment.

Copyright © 2014 by the American Academy of Pediatrics.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.2013-3011
PMID: 24819575 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


735. PLoS One. 2014 May 12;9(5):e96818. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0096818. 
eCollection 2014.

Ovary transcriptome profiling via artificial intelligence reveals a 
transcriptomic fingerprint predicting egg quality in striped bass, Morone 
saxatilis.

Chapman RW(1), Reading BJ(2), Sullivan CV(3).

Author information:
(1)Marine Resources Division, South Carolina Department of Natural Resources, 
Charleston, South Carolina, United States of America; Marine Genomics Core 
Facility, Hollings Marine Laboratory, Charleston, South Carolina, United States 
of America.
(2)Department of Applied Ecology, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, 
North Carolina, United States of America.
(3)Department of Biology, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, North 
Carolina, United States of America.

Inherited gene transcripts deposited in oocytes direct early embryonic 
development in all vertebrates, but transcript profiles indicative of embryo 
developmental competence have not previously been identified. We employed 
artificial intelligence to model profiles of maternal ovary gene expression and 
their relationship to egg quality, evaluated as production of viable 
mid-blastula stage embryos, in the striped bass (Morone saxatilis), a farmed 
species with serious egg quality problems. In models developed using artificial 
neural networks (ANNs) and supervised machine learning, collective changes in 
the expression of a limited suite of genes (233) representing <2% of the queried 
ovary transcriptome explained >90% of the eventual variance in embryo survival. 
Egg quality related to minor changes in gene expression (<0.2-fold), with most 
individual transcripts making a small contribution (<1%) to the overall 
prediction of egg quality. These findings indicate that the predictive power of 
the transcriptome as regards egg quality resides not in levels of individual 
genes, but rather in the collective, coordinated expression of a suite of 
transcripts constituting a transcriptomic "fingerprint". Correlation analyses of 
the corresponding candidate genes indicated that dysfunction of the 
ubiquitin-26S proteasome, COP9 signalosome, and subsequent control of the cell 
cycle engenders embryonic developmental incompetence. The affected gene networks 
are centrally involved in regulation of early development in all vertebrates, 
including humans. By assessing collective levels of the relevant ovarian 
transcripts via ANNs we were able, for the first time in any vertebrate, to 
accurately predict the subsequent embryo developmental potential of eggs from 
individual females. Our results show that the transcriptomic fingerprint 
evidencing developmental dysfunction is highly predictive of, and therefore 
likely to regulate, egg quality, a biologically complex trait crucial to 
reproductive fitness.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0096818
PMCID: PMC4018430
PMID: 24820964 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


736. Int J Psychol. 2014 Jun;49(3):167-74. doi: 10.1002/ijop.12021. Epub 2013 Nov 20.

The cultural background of the non-academic concept of psychology in Japan: its 
implications for introductory education in psychology.

Ashitaka Y(1), Shimada H.

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Maritime Sciences, Kobe University, Hyogo, Japan.

No research has empirically explored the non-academic concept of psychology 
itself (implicit theories) in non-Western cultures despite a widely held belief 
that this understanding differs cross-culturally. This study examined whether 
the non-academic concept of psychology among inexperienced Japanese students 
differed from the concept held by students of other countries. In Japanese, 
psychology is referred to as , which includes the ideographic character , 
literally meaning heart. This fact led us to hypothesize that psychology will be 
disproportionately associated with emotion among Japanese students. Indeed, our 
findings among Japanese students produced a J-curve, indicating that our 
prediction was true. We posit that this issue has never been discussed in Japan 
because a majority of people share this concept of psychology. In our second 
study, we examined not only preference in students' association of intelligence 
or emotion but also heart or mind with psychology. Finally, we identified 
whether students' believe that psychology encompasses both the heart and the 
mind. We conclude with a discussion of the importance of explicitly defining the 
non-academic concept of psychology in early psychology education in Japan.

© 2013 International Union of Psychological Science.

DOI: 10.1002/ijop.12021
PMID: 24821505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


737. Behav Ecol. 2014 May;25(3):487-495. doi: 10.1093/beheco/aru002. Epub 2014 Feb 
13.

An arms race between producers and scroungers can drive the evolution of social 
cognition.

Arbilly M(1), Weissman DB(2), Feldman MW(1), Grodzinski U(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Stanford University , Gilbert Hall, 371 Serra Mall, 
Stanford, CA 94305 , USA .
(2)Institute of Science and Technology Austria , Am Campus 1, 3400 
Klosterneuburg , Austria , and.
(3)Department of Psychology, University of Cambridge , Downing Street, Cambridge 
CB2 3EB , UK.

The "social intelligence hypothesis" states that the need to cope with 
complexities of social life has driven the evolution of advanced cognitive 
abilities. It is usually invoked in the context of challenges arising from 
complex intragroup structures, hierarchies, and alliances. However, a 
fundamental aspect of group living remains largely unexplored as a driving force 
in cognitive evolution: the competition between individuals searching for 
resources (producers) and conspecifics that parasitize their findings 
(scroungers). In populations of social foragers, abilities that enable 
scroungers to steal by outsmarting producers, and those allowing producers to 
prevent theft by outsmarting scroungers, are likely to be beneficial and may 
fuel a cognitive arms race. Using analytical theory and agent-based simulations, 
we present a general model for such a race that is driven by the 
producer-scrounger game and show that the race's plausibility is dramatically 
affected by the nature of the evolving abilities. If scrounging and scrounging 
avoidance rely on separate, strategy-specific cognitive abilities, arms races 
are short-lived and have a limited effect on cognition. However, general 
cognitive abilities that facilitate both scrounging and scrounging avoidance 
undergo stable, long-lasting arms races. Thus, ubiquitous foraging interactions 
may lead to the evolution of general cognitive abilities in social animals, 
without the requirement of complex intragroup structures.

DOI: 10.1093/beheco/aru002
PMCID: PMC4014306
PMID: 24822021


738. PLoS One. 2014 May 13;9(5):e97429. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0097429. 
eCollection 2014.

Two speed factors of visual recognition independently correlated with fluid 
intelligence.

Tachibana R(1), Namba Y(1), Noguchi Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Graduate School of Humanities, Kobe University, 
Nada, Kobe, Japan.

Growing evidence indicates a moderate but significant relationship between 
processing speed in visuo-cognitive tasks and general intelligence. On the other 
hand, findings from neuroscience proposed that the primate visual system 
consists of two major pathways, the ventral pathway for objects recognition and 
the dorsal pathway for spatial processing and attentive analysis. Previous 
studies seeking for visuo-cognitive factors of human intelligence indicated a 
significant correlation between fluid intelligence and the inspection time (IT), 
an index for a speed of object recognition performed in the ventral pathway. We 
thus presently examined a possibility that neural processing speed in the dorsal 
pathway also represented a factor of intelligence. Specifically, we used the 
mental rotation (MR) task, a popular psychometric measure for mental speed of 
spatial processing in the dorsal pathway. We found that the speed of MR was 
significantly correlated with intelligence scores, while it had no correlation 
with one's IT (recognition speed of visual objects). Our results support the new 
possibility that intelligence could be explained by two types of mental speed, 
one related to object recognition (IT) and another for manipulation of mental 
images (MR).

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0097429
PMCID: PMC4019569
PMID: 24825574 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


739. Appl Neuropsychol Adult. 2014;21(1):14-20. doi: 10.1080/09084282.2012.718017. 
Epub 2013 Jun 14.

Cold pressor-induced pain does not impair WAIS-IV processing speed index or 
working memory index performance.

Etherton J(1).

Author information:
(1)a Department of Psychology , Texas State University , San Marcos , Texas.

Chronic pain frequently involves cognitive complaints such as concentration and 
memory deficits, but studies of the effects of pain on cognition have not 
consistently demonstrated deficits and have not typically utilized standard 
neuropsychological instruments. Effects of cold pressor-induced pain on Wechsler 
Adult Intelligence Scale-Fourth Edition Processing Speed Index (PSI) and Working 
Memory Index (WMI) performance was examined in nonclinical volunteers (n = 40). 
All took one PSI subtest and one WMI subtest normally, and then took different 
PSI and WMI subtests during cold pressor-induced pain or painless warm-water 
immersion. Scaled scores for normal administration versus pain or painless water 
immersion did not differ and there was no interaction between group (control vs. 
pain) and manner of administration, despite moderately severe mean pain ratings 
(M = 6.8 on a 0-10 pain-rating scale). Results indicate that induced pain in 
nonclinical volunteers does not impair PSI or WMI performance, and they suggest 
that chronic pain per se should not be expected to substantially affect these 
cognitive functions. However, patients with chronic pain may differ from 
nonclinical volunteers in their experience of pain, potentially limiting 
generalizability.

DOI: 10.1080/09084282.2012.718017
PMID: 24826491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


740. Appl Neuropsychol Adult. 2014;21(1):51-9. doi: 10.1080/09084282.2012.726670. 
Epub 2013 Jun 21.

Unreliable block span reveals simulated intellectual disability on the 
stanford-binet intelligence scales-fifth edition.

Barker A(1), Musso MW, Jones GN, Roid G, Gouvier D.

Author information:
(1)a Psychology Department , Louisiana State University , Baton Rouge , 
Louisiana.

Previously developed validity measures are largely lacking in their ability to 
accurately distinguish malingerers from individuals with genuine intellectual 
disabilities (ID). The purpose of the present study was to develop a validity 
index for the Stanford-Binet Intelligence Scales-Fifth Edition (SB-5) aimed at 
detecting malingered ID. Fifty-four college students were instructed to feign 
impairment consistent with mental retardation while completing the SB-5. 
Simulated malingerers performed significantly poorer on the Block Span task of 
the SB-5 than did individuals with genuine impairment. A Block Span Validity 
Index (BSVI) cutoff score of less than 10 showed perfect specificity by 
correctly identifying all persons with true ID and demonstrated 52% sensitivity 
in identifying persons feigning impairment. For the detection of malingered ID, 
the BSVI yielded favorable results, although more research is needed to validate 
the BSVI using a known-groups study design.

DOI: 10.1080/09084282.2012.726670
PMID: 24826496 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


741. Brain Inj. 2014;28(7):915-21. doi: 10.3109/02699052.2013.862739.

Long-term functional outcome after moderate-to-severe paediatric traumatic brain 
injury.

Shaklai S(1), Peretz R, Spasser R, Simantov M, Groswasser Z.

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Unit, Loewenstein Rehabilitation Hospital , Ra'anana , Israel and.

BACKGROUND: Long-term follow-up studies after severe and moderate pediatric 
traumatic brain injury (TBI) are not common and inconclusive. Most studies 
focused on neurobehavioural sequelae, less data is reported about age 
appropriate function. Different prognostic factors were noted over past decades.
METHODS: A prospective historical study describing the functional long-term 
outcome after childhood moderate and severe TBI was conducted. Seventy-seven 
children who suffered either severe or moderate TBI were followed for an average 
of ten years and clinical functional outcome was recorded. Factors influencing 
prognosis were investigated.
RESULTS: All children but six were integrated into educational systems after 
discharge from rehabilitation settings (department and day-care); 61% of 
children who suffered severe-moderate TBI were able to function within their 
normative age peers. Positive outcome predictors were Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) 
>5, length of unconsciousness (LOC) <11 days, Functional Independence Measure 
(FIM) and Intelligence Quotient (IQ) at discharge from rehabilitation, length of 
acute hospitalization and rehabilitation. Negative outcome predictors were 
vegetative state at admission to rehabilitation and associated anoxic brain 
injury.
CONCLUSIONS: Guarded optimistic functional outcome can be expected after severe 
or moderate childhood TBI.

DOI: 10.3109/02699052.2013.862739
PMID: 24826955 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


742. Phys Rev E Stat Nonlin Soft Matter Phys. 2014 Apr;89(4):042805. doi: 
10.1103/PhysRevE.89.042805. Epub 2014 Apr 14.

Agent-based models for latent liquidity and concave price impact.

Mastromatteo I(1), Tóth B(1), Bouchaud JP(1).

Author information:
(1)Capital Fund Management, 23-25, Rue de l'Université, 75007 Paris, France.

We revisit the "ɛ-intelligence" model of Tóth et al. [Phys. Rev. X 1, 021006 
(2011)], which was proposed as a minimal framework to understand the square-root 
dependence of the impact of meta-orders on volume in financial markets. The 
basic idea is that most of the daily liquidity is "latent" and furthermore 
vanishes linearly around the current price, as a consequence of the diffusion of 
the price itself. However, the numerical implementation of Tóth et al. (2011) 
was criticized as being unrealistic, in particular because all the 
"intelligence" was conferred to market orders, while limit orders were passive 
and random. In this work, we study various alternative specifications of the 
model, for example, allowing limit orders to react to the order flow or changing 
the execution protocols. By and large, our study lends strong support to the 
idea that the square-root impact law is a very generic and robust property that 
requires very few ingredients to be valid. We also show that the transition from 
superdiffusion to subdiffusion reported in Tóth et al. (2011) is in fact a 
crossover but that the original model can be slightly altered in order to give 
rise to a genuine phase transition, which is of interest on its own. We finally 
propose a general theoretical framework to understand how a nonlinear impact may 
appear even in the limit where the bias in the order flow is vanishingly small.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevE.89.042805
PMID: 24827291


743. Subst Use Misuse. 2014 Dec;49(14):1849-56. doi: 10.3109/10826084.2014.912232. 
Epub 2014 May 14.

The diffusion of performance and image-enhancing drugs (PIEDs) on the internet: 
the abuse of the cognitive enhancer piracetam.

Corazza O(1), Bersani FS, Brunoro R, Valeriani G, Martinotti G, Schifano F.

Author information:
(1)1Departments of Postgraduate Medicine & Pharmacy, School of Life and Medical 
Sciences, University of Hertfordshire , UK.

INTRODUCTION: Performance and image-enhancing drugs (PIEDs), also known as 
"lifestyle drugs," are increasingly sold on the Internet to enhance cognitive as 
well as sexual, muscular, attentive, and other natural capacities. Our analysis 
focuses on the misuse of the cognitive enhancer piracetam.
METHODS: A literature review was carried out in PsychInfo and Pubmed database. 
Considering the absence of peer-reviewed data, review of additional sources of 
unstructured information from the Internet was carried out between February 2012 
and July 2013. Additional searches were conducted using the Global Public Health 
Intelligence Network (GPHIN), a secure Internet-based early warning system 
developed by Health Canada and the World Health Organization (WHO), which 
monitors media reports in six languages, Arabic, Chinese, English, French, 
Russian, and Spanish.
RESULTS: Piracetam is sold via illicit online pharmacies with no need of 
prescription at low prices. Buyers, mainly healthy individuals, purchase the 
product to enhance study- and work-related performances as well as for 
recreational purposes. Its nonmedical use is often associated with the 
occurrence of side effects such as hallucinations, psychomotor agitation, 
dysphoria, tiredness, dizziness, memory loss, headache, and severe diarrhoea; 
moreover, several users declared to have neither felt any cognitive improvement 
nor psychedelic effects.
CONCLUSIONS: This is a new and fast-growing trend of abuse that needs to be 
extensively monitored and studied also by using near real-time and unstructured 
sources of information such as Internet news and online reports in order to 
acquire rapid knowledge and understanding. Products sold online might be 
counterfeits and this enhances related health risks.

DOI: 10.3109/10826084.2014.912232
PMID: 24827869 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


744. Fetal Pediatr Pathol. 2014 Aug;33(4):199-201. doi: 10.3109/15513815.2014.913747. 
Epub 2014 May 14.

Crouzon syndrome with bony upper airway obstruction: case report and review 
literature.

Gothwal S(1), Nayan S, Kumar J.

Author information:
(1)1Department of Pediatrics, AIIMS, New Delhi, India.

Crouzon syndrome is a rare genetic disorder. It is inherited as an autosomal 
dominant pattern. Mutations in the FGFR2 gene are known to cause Crouzon 
syndrome. Craniofacial abnormalities are common at birth and may progress with 
time. The severity of these signs and symptoms varies among affected children. A 
full term, large for date, male baby was delivered to a gravida 2 mother by 
cesarean section having facial dimorphism suggestive of Crouzon syndrome. 
Genetic team confirmed the diagnosis. Baby had severe respiratory distress. On 
work up, upper bony airway narrowing was found (diameter 3 mm). Later on, baby 
was operated for the same. Baby is asymptomatic now and doing well up to 2 
months of follow-up. Management of Crouzon disease is multidisciplinary and 
early diagnosis has prime importance. Follow-up must ensure late features like 
hearing problems, vision problems, dental problems, intelligence, cranial 
synostosis, and upper airway problems.

DOI: 10.3109/15513815.2014.913747
PMID: 24828762 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


745. Scand J Psychol. 2014 Aug;55(4):319-25. doi: 10.1111/sjop.12134. Epub 2014 May 
14.

Cognitive, emotional and social development in adolescents born to substance 
using women.

Irner TB(1), Teasdale TW, Nielsen T, Vedal S, Olofsson M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Copenhagen University Hospital, Copenhagen, 
Denmark.

The aim of this article is to investigate the long-term developmental 
consequences of being born to a substance-using mother, focusing on cognitive 
functions, attention, emotional and social development. The longitudinal sample 
comprised 48 adolescents aged 12-16 at the time of follow-up assessments, which 
included the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children-III, the Test of Everyday 
Attention for Children, The Tower of London test and the Strengths and 
Difficulties Questionnaire. The adolescents scored significantly lower than the 
norms on Wechsler's subtests and Full-Scale IQ, and on The Everyday Attention 
test. There were few differences on the Strengths and Difficulties 
Questionnaire. The girls reported significantly more hyperactivity than the 
British norms, and the teachers reported higher impact scores in boys, compared 
to the British norms. Thus, the results on cognitive consequences of maternal 
substance use appear to be very substantial while the emotional and social 
consequences do not. The results suggest serious negative effects of substance 
exposure in utero on attention and cognitive functioning in general.

© 2014 Scandinavian Psychological Associations and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/sjop.12134
PMID: 24828950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


746. Br J Educ Psychol. 2014 Jun;84(Pt 2):239-52. doi: 10.1111/bjep.12019. Epub 2013 
Apr 23.

A meta-analysis of adult-rated child personality and academic performance in 
primary education.

Poropat AE(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Applied Psychology, Griffith University, Mount Gravatt, Queensland, 
Australia.

BACKGROUND: Personality is reliably associated with academic performance, but 
personality measurement in primary education can be problematic. Young children 
find it difficult to accurately self-rate personality, and dominant models of 
adult personality may be inappropriate for children.
AIMS: This meta-analysis was conducted to determine the validity of the 
Five-Factor Model (FFM) of personality for statistically predicting children's 
academic performance.
SAMPLE: Literature search identified 12 reports, with cumulative sample sizes 
ranging from 4,382 (19 correlations) to 5,706 (23 correlations) for correlations 
with Emotional Stability and Conscientiousness respectively.
METHOD: Hunter-Schmidt random-effects meta-analysis was used, and moderators 
were tested using sample-weighted regression.
RESULTS: When compared with self-rated measures, adult-rated Conscientiousness 
and Openness were more strongly correlated with academic performance, but 
adult-rated Agreeableness was less strongly correlated. Q-set-based assessments 
had lower validity, which appeared to explain moderating effects of rating 
source. Moderating effects were not found for age, year of education (grades 
1-7), or language within which the study was conducted.
CONCLUSIONS: Conscientiousness and Openness had two of the strongest 
correlations with academic performance yet reported, comparable with previous 
meta-analytic correlations of academic performance with instructional quality, 
cognitive ability, and feedback. The FFM appears to be valid for educational 
research with children. Openness, which has no counterpart in models of 
children's temperament, should be further researched with children. Future 
research should examine the measurement of childhood personality, its 
relationship with intelligence, the extent to which it is malleable in primary 
education, and its causal relationship with academic performance.

© 2013 The British Psychological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/bjep.12019
PMID: 24829119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


747. Med Decis Making. 2015 Jan;35(1):46-59. doi: 10.1177/0272989X14535983. Epub 2014 
May 14.

Efficacy of a web-based intelligent tutoring system for communicating genetic 
risk of breast cancer: a fuzzy-trace theory approach.

Wolfe CR(1), Reyna VF(2)(3), Widmer CL(1), Cedillos EM(1), Fisher CR(1), 
Brust-Renck PG(2), Weil AM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Miami University, Oxford, OH, USA (CRW, CLW, EMC, 
CRF, AMW)
(2)Department of Human Development, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY, USA (VFR, 
PGB-R)
(3)Human Neuroscience Institute, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY, USA (VFR)

BACKGROUND: . Many healthy women consider genetic testing for breast cancer 
risk, yet BRCA testing issues are complex.
OBJECTIVE: . To determine whether an intelligent tutor, BRCA Gist, grounded in 
fuzzy-trace theory (FTT), increases gist comprehension and knowledge about 
genetic testing for breast cancer risk, improving decision making.
DESIGN: . In 2 experiments, 410 healthy undergraduate women were randomly 
assigned to 1 of 3 groups: an online module using a Web-based tutoring system 
(BRCA Gist) that uses artificial intelligence technology, a second group read 
highly similar content from the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Web site, and a 
third that completed an unrelated tutorial.
INTERVENTION: . BRCA Gist applied FTT and was designed to help participants 
develop gist comprehension of topics relevant to decisions about BRCA genetic 
testing, including how breast cancer spreads, inherited genetic mutations, and 
base rates.
MEASURES: . We measured content knowledge, gist comprehension of 
decision-relevant information, interest in testing, and genetic risk and testing 
judgments.
RESULTS: . Control knowledge scores ranged from 54% to 56%, NCI improved 
significantly to 65% and 70%, and BRCA Gist improved significantly more to 75% 
and 77%, P < 0.0001. BRCA Gist scored higher on gist comprehension than NCI and 
control, P < 0.0001. Control genetic risk-assessment mean was 48% correct; BRCA 
Gist (61%) and NCI (56%) were significantly higher, P < 0.0001. BRCA Gist 
participants recommended less testing for women without risk factors (not good 
candidates; 24% and 19%) than controls (50%, both experiments) and NCI (32%), 
experiment 2, P < 0.0001. BRCA Gist testing interest was lower than in controls, 
P < 0.0001.
LIMITATIONS: . BRCA Gist has not been tested with older women from diverse 
groups.
CONCLUSIONS: . Intelligent tutors, such as BRCA Gist, are scalable, 
cost-effective ways of helping people understand complex issues, improving 
decision making.

© The Author(s) 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X14535983
PMCID: PMC4232483
PMID: 24829276 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


748. J Psychoactive Drugs. 2014 Jan-Mar;46(1):3-10. doi: 
10.1080/02791072.2014.873684.

From Hofmann to the Haight Ashbury, and into the future: the past and potential 
of lysergic acid diethlyamide.

Smith DE, Raswyck GE, Davidson LD.

Since the discovery of its psychedelic properties in 1943, lysergic acid 
diethylamide (LSD) has been explored by psychiatric/therapeutic researchers, 
military/intelligence agencies, and a significant portion of the general 
population. Promising early research was halted by LSD's placement as a Schedule 
I drug in the early 1970s. The U.S. Army and CIA dropped their research after 
finding it unreliable for their purposes. NSDUH estimates that more than 22 
million (9.1% of the population) have used LSD at least once in their lives. 
Recently, researchers have been investigating the therapeutic use of LSD and 
other psychedelics for end-of-life anxiety, post-traumatic stress disorder 
(PTSD), cancer, and addiction treatment. Adverse psychedelic reactions can be 
managed using talkdown techniques developed and in use since the 1960s.

DOI: 10.1080/02791072.2014.873684
PMID: 24830180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


749. Pediatr Neurol. 2014 Jul;51(1):17-23. doi: 10.1016/j.pediatrneurol.2014.02.020. 
Epub 2014 Mar 4.

What happens to children with epilepsy when they become adults? Some facts and 
opinions.

Camfield PR(1), Camfield CS(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Dalhousie University and the IWK Health Centre, 
Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada. Electronic address: camfield@dal.ca.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, Dalhousie University and the IWK Health Centre, 
Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada.

BACKGROUND: The adult outcome after childhood onset epilepsy is a complex 
subject because seizure types and severity are diverse, comorbidities are 
common, and additional factors influence social outcome. We review selected data 
about seizure remission or persistence and social outcome in adulthood.
METHODS: Information came from published literature, especially population-based 
studies.
RESULTS: In general, approximately 50-60% of children with epilepsy eventually 
have complete seizure remission (i.e., seizure free and off antiepileptic drug 
treatment): with longer follow-up, the remission rate improves. Predicting 
remission, persistent or intractable epilepsy is often inaccurate for an 
individual patient. A tiny proportion of children with epilepsy die as the 
result of seizures or sudden unexpected death in epilepsy patients; however, an 
otherwise normal child has the same risk of death as the reference population. 
When uncontrolled epilepsy persists into adulthood, the rate of sudden 
unexpected death in epilepsy patients possibly increases. Reports about social 
outcome in adulthood are increasing. For those with intellectual disability, a 
lifetime of dependency is to be expected. For those with normal intelligence, 
adult life is often unsatisfactory with high rates of incomplete education, 
unemployment, poverty, social isolation, inadvertent pregnancy, and psychiatric 
disorders. Seizure remission does not ensure good adult social outcome.
CONCLUSIONS: Although seizure control in childhood is important, anticipating 
poor social outcome in adulthood may allow earlier interventions. A 
well-orchestrated transition from pediatric to adult health care may be 
beneficial for the 40-50% with persistent seizures and for the majority who are 
at risk for adult social difficulties.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pediatrneurol.2014.02.020
PMID: 24830766 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


750. Euro Surveill. 2014 May 8;19(18):20796. doi: 
10.2807/1560-7917.es2014.19.18.20796.

Enhanced epidemic intelligence using a web-based screening system during the 
2010 FIFA World Cup in South Africa.

Mantero J(1), Szegedi E, Payne Hallstrom L, Lenglet A, Depoortere E, Kaic B, 
Blumberg L, Linge JP, Coulombier D.

Author information:
(1)Epidemic Intelligence group, European Centre for Disease Prevention and 
Control (ECDC), Stockholm, Sweden.

The 2010 FIFA World Cup took place in South Africa between 11 June and 11 July 
2010. The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC), in 
collaboration with the hosting authorities, carried out enhanced epidemic 
intelligence activities from 7 June to 16 July 2010 for timely detection and 
monitoring of signals of public health events with a potential to pose a risk to 
participants and visitors. We adapted ECDC’s routine epidemic intelligence 
process to targeted event-based surveillance of official and unofficial online 
information sources. A set of three specifically adapted alerts in the web-based 
screening system MedISys were set up: potential public health events in South 
Africa, those occurring in the participating countries and those in the rest of 
the world. Results were shared with national and international public health 
partners through daily bulletins. According to pre-established ECDC criteria for 
the World Cup, 21 events of potential public health relevance were identified at 
local and international level. Although none of the events detected were 
evaluated as posing a serious risk for the World Cup, we consider that the 
investment in targeted event-based surveillance activities during the tournament 
was relevant as it facilitated real-time detection and assessment of potential 
threats. An additional benefit was early communication of relevant information 
to public health partners.

DOI: 10.2807/1560-7917.es2014.19.18.20796
PMID: 24832118 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


751. Iran J Nurs Midwifery Res. 2014 Mar;19(2):203-7.

Emotional intelligence and related factors in medical sciences students of an 
Iranian university.

Lolaty HA(1), Tirgari A(2), Fard JH(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatric Nursing, Member of Psychiatry and Behavioral 
Sciences Research Center, Mazandaran University of Medical Sciences, Sari, Iran.
(2)Department of Psychiatry Member of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences 
Research Center, Sari, Iran.
(3)Department of Psychiatric Nursing, School of Nursing and Midwifery, 
Mazandaran University of Medical Sciences, Sari, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Emotional intelligence has evolved lot of interest in a variety of 
fields. The aim of this study was to determine the emotional intelligence and 
its related factors among junior medical sciences students.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The research design was a descriptive - analytic 
analysis. Based on a census sampling method, the emotional intelligence of 322 
junior medical sciences students was evaluated using the Bar-On Emotional 
Quotient Inventory. This study was done from 2008 to 2009 in the Mazandaran 
University of Medical Sciences.
RESULTS: The findings showed that 48.1% and 22.4% of students had effective 
functioning and enhanced skills in emotional intelligence, respectively, while 
29.5% of them needed some interventions in order to enhance the emotional 
intelligence. The study revealed that the students required intervention in 
every composite of emotional intelligence. In addition, emotional intelligence 
was correlated with gender, psychiatric history of the student and his/her 
family, experience of stressful life events, interest in the field of study, 
grade of study, and marital status.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of the present study have shown that the students need 
some interventions to improve their emotional intelligence.

PMCID: PMC4020032
PMID: 24834092

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None declared


752. Assessment. 2015 Feb;22(1):86-100. doi: 10.1177/1073191114534883. Epub 2014 May 
16.

Multidimensional assessment of beliefs about emotion: development and validation 
of the emotion and regulation beliefs scale.

Veilleux JC(1), Salomaa AC(2), Shaver JA(2), Zielinski MJ(2), Pollert GA(2).

Author information:
(1)University of Arkansas, Fayetteville, AR, USA jcveille@uark.edu.
(2)University of Arkansas, Fayetteville, AR, USA.

Recent work has extended the idea of implicit self-theories to the realm of 
emotion to assess beliefs in the malleability of emotions. The current article 
expanded on prior measurement of emotion beliefs in a scale development project. 
Items were tested and revised over rounds of data collection with both students 
and nonstudent adult online participants. Exploratory and confirmatory factor 
analyses revealed a three-factor structure. The resulting scale, the Emotion and 
Regulation Beliefs Scale, assesses beliefs that emotions can hijack 
self-control, beliefs that emotion regulation is a worthwhile pursuit, and 
beliefs that emotions can constrain behavior. Preliminary findings suggest that 
the Emotion and Regulation Beliefs Scale has good internal consistency, is 
conceptually distinct from measures assessing individuals' beliefs in their 
management of emotions and facets of emotional intelligence, and predicts 
clinically relevant outcomes even after controlling for an existing short 
measure of beliefs in emotion controllability.

© The Author(s) 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/1073191114534883
PMID: 24835246 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


753. PLoS One. 2014 May 16;9(5):e97071. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0097071. 
eCollection 2014.

Sex-related neuroanatomical basis of emotion regulation ability.

Kong F(1), Zhen Z(1), Li J(1), Huang L(1), Wang X(1), Song Y(1), Liu J(2).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Cognitive Neuroscience and Learning & IDG/McGovern 
Institute for Brain Research, Beijing Normal University, Beijing, China.
(2)School of Psychology, Beijing Normal University, Beijing, China; Center for 
Collaboration and Innovation in Brain and Learning Sciences, Beijing Normal 
University, Beijing, China.

Behavioral research has demonstrated that males have a higher capability of 
regulating their own and others' emotions than females; however, little is known 
about the sex-specific brain mechanisms involved in emotion regulation ability. 
In the present study, we used voxel-based morphometry to investigate the neural 
basis underlying emotion regulation ability in a large sample of young adults. 
Assessment of emotion regulation ability was performed using the Wong and Law 
Emotional Intelligence Scale. As expected, males significantly scored higher in 
emotion regulation ability than females did. More importantly, we found the sex 
differences in the neuroanatomical basis of emotion regulation ability. Males 
showed a stronger positive relation between emotion regulation ability and 
regional gray matter volume (rGMV) in the right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. 
In contrast, females demonstrated a stronger positive relation between emotion 
regulation ability and rGMV in an anatomical cluster that extends from the left 
brainstem to the left hippocampus, the left amygdala and the insular cortex. The 
present study provides the first empirical evidence regarding the sex-linked 
neuroanatomical correlates of emotion regulation ability. These findings may 
help understand why there is a higher prevalence of affective disorders in 
females and maladaptive behaviors in males.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0097071
PMCID: PMC4024009
PMID: 24835267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


754. J Clin Exp Neuropsychol. 2014;36(6):559-68. doi: 10.1080/13803395.2014.915933. 
Epub 2014 May 16.

Cognitive estimation and its assessment.

Gansler DA(1), Varvaris M, Swenson L, Schretlen DJ.

Author information:
(1)a Department of Psychology , Suffolk University , Boston , MA , USA.

PURPOSE: We evaluated the internal consistency and construct and criterion 
validity of a 10-item revision of the Cognitive Estimation Task (CET-R) 
developed by Shallice and Evans to assess problem-solving hypothesis generation.
METHOD: The CET-R was administered to 216 healthy adults from the Aging, Brain 
Imaging, and Cognition study and 57 adult outpatients with schizophrenia.
RESULTS: Exploratory and confirmatory factor analysis (EFA and CFA) of the 
healthy sample revealed that seven of the 10 CET-R items constitute a more 
internally consistent scale (CET-R-7). Though EFA indicated that two CET-R-7 
dimensions might be present (length and speed/time estimation, respectively), 
CFA confirmed that a single factor best represents the seven items. The CET-R-7 
was modeled best by crystallized intelligence, adequately by fluid intelligence, 
and inadequately by visuospatial problem solving. Performance on the CET-R-7 
correlated significantly with the neuropsychological domains of speed and 
fluency, but not memory or executive function. Finally, CET-R performance 
differed by diagnosis, sex, and education, but not age.
CONCLUSIONS: This study identified an internally consistent set of items that 
measures the construct of cognitive estimation. This construct relates to 
several important dimensions of psychological functioning, including 
crystallized and fluid intelligence, generativity, and self-monitoring. It also 
is sensitive to cognitive dysfunction in adults with schizophrenia.

DOI: 10.1080/13803395.2014.915933
PMID: 24835509 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


755. Int Dent J. 2014 Aug;64(4):213-8. doi: 10.1111/idj.12111. Epub 2014 May 19.

Dental manpower in India: changing trends since 1920.

Jaiswal AK(1), Srinivas P, Suresh S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health Dentistry, SIBAR Institute of Dental Sciences, 
Takkellapadu, Guntur, Andhra Pradesh, India.

AIM: To analyse the changing trends in dental manpower production of India since 
1920 and its development to date.
METHODS AND MATERIAL: The databases consulted were those provided by the Central 
Bureau of Health Intelligence, Dental Council of India, and Ministry of Health 
and Family Welfare.
STATISTICAL ANALYSIS USED: Descriptive statistics.
RESULTS: In India, dental education was formally established in 1920 when the 
first dental college was started. Current data revealed that there are 301 
colleges nationwide granting degrees in dentistry, with a total of 25,270 
student positions offering annually. Both the distribution of dental colleges 
and of dentists varies among the regions of the country with the greatest 
concentration in major urban areas, resulting in limited coverage in rural 
regions.
CONCLUSIONS: The current scenario indicates that there is lack of systematic 
planning in the allocation and development of dental colleges in India.

© 2014 FDI World Dental Federation.

DOI: 10.1111/idj.12111
PMCID: PMC9376396
PMID: 24835585 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


756. Neuroimage. 2014 Oct 15;100:706-9. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2014.05.011. Epub 
2014 May 14.

Cognitive and neurodevelopmental benefits of extended formula-feeding in 
infants: re: Deoni et al. 2013.

Anderson A(1), Burggren A(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Biobehavioral Sciences, University of 
California, Los Angeles, 760 Westwood Plaza, CHS Suite C8-734, Los Angeles, CA 
90095, USA. Electronic address: ariana82@ucla.edu.
(2)Department of Psychiatry and Biobehavioral Sciences, University of 
California, Los Angeles, 760 Westwood Plaza, CHS Suite C8-734, Los Angeles, CA 
90095, USA.

Comment on
    Neuroimage. 2013 Nov 15;82:77-86.

The recent Deoni et al. (2013) manuscript proposed that breastfeeding was 
associated with increased cognitive ability and white-matter in older children 
(over 26 months), using ms-DESPOT MRI imaging to indirectly measure white matter 
in children who were either breastfed, formula fed, or combined breast+formula 
fed. In this response, we identify limitations in drawing causal inference among 
white matter, cognitive ability, and breastfeeding. We propose that the observed 
cognitive and neurodevelopmental differences between breastfed and formula-fed 
infants might actually be caused by the premature introduction of cow's milk in 
the second year of life, among other contributing factors. The implication of a 
causal relationship between intelligence and white matter metrics, especially in 
a developmentally young population, is premature given the recency of this 
field. The original analyses did not control for important covariates; when 
comparing both white matter and test scores, mothers were not controlled for age 
and socio-economic status (SES) and their children were not controlled for 
gender. Raw test scores, instead of age-adjusted test scores, were used even 
though the children were of different ages. Mothers were not controlled for 
reason(s) not to breastfeed, even though many prenatal factors are known to 
predict this such as stress, parity, obesity, and smoking habits. The observed 
cognitive ability and white matter benefits identified primarily within the 
long-term breastfed children are at least partially attributable to other 
factors such as age, gender, and SES. We suggest methodological approaches to 
removing such ambiguity, and ways to dissociate cause from effect. The formula 
and breastfeeding groups didn't show differences until the "formula fed" 
children likely had been fed cow's milk for longer than they had been fed 
formula, at 2.2 years. The greatest cognitive differences however were observed 
within the high SES breastfed infants depending on breastfeeding duration; 
infants who were breastfed over 15 months showed increased cognitive ability 
compared to those breastfed less than months. This implicates the source of 
dairy during the second year of life, and not other SES factors or infant 
formula, as the most likely nutritional factor responsible for the observed 
differences within the breastfed children. Given the known nutritional 
deficiencies of cow's milk, these findings imply infants who received cow's milk 
during the second year of life were at a disadvantage compared to those who were 
breastfed, independent of whether they were fed formula or breast milk during 
the first year of life. This evidence suggests that infants should receive 
formula in lieu of cow's milk when breast milk is unavailable as a dairy source, 
until roughly 2 years of age.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2014.05.011
PMCID: PMC4138249
PMID: 24836012 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest: The authors have no 
conflicts of interest to disclose.


757. Brain Cogn. 2014 Jul;88:21-5. doi: 10.1016/j.bandc.2014.04.004. Epub 2014 May 
14.

Neuromythology of Einstein's brain.

Hines T(1).

Author information:
(1)Psychology Department, Pace University, Pleasantville, NY, United States; 
Neurology Department, New York Medical College, Valhalla, NY, United States. 
Electronic address: thines@pace.edu.

The idea that the brain of the great physicist Albert Einstein is different from 
"average" brains in both cellular structure and external shape is widespread. 
This belief is based on several studies examining Einstein's brain both 
histologically and morphologically. This paper reviews these studies and finds 
them wanting. Their results do not, in fact, provide support for the claim that 
the structure of Einstein's brain reflects his intellectual abilities.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bandc.2014.04.004
PMID: 24836969 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


758. Int J Clin Exp Hypn. 2014;62(3):310-29. doi: 10.1080/00207144.2014.901083.

Intelligence and hypnotizability: is there a connection?

Geiger E(1), Peter B, Prade T, Piesbergen C.

Author information:
(1)a Ludwig-Maximilians-University , Munich , Germany.

Ninety-two high school and 8 secondary school students, aged between 15 and 19 
years, were tested for intelligence and for hypnotic susceptibility. No 
correlations could be observed for the overall sample unselected by sex because 
the negative correlations for male participants canceled out the positive 
correlations for the female subsample. These are significant for the total value 
of intelligence (r = .288) and highly significant for the subcategory verbal 
intelligence (r = .348), yet nonsignificant for the subcategories numerical 
intelligence and figural intelligence. Females seem to be more able to 
imaginatively process semantic contents induced verbally. They also seem to have 
a higher task motivation than males--at least during adolescence.

DOI: 10.1080/00207144.2014.901083
PMID: 24837062 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


759. J Autism Dev Disord. 2014 Oct;44(10):2499-513. doi: 10.1007/s10803-014-2119-5.

How stimulus and task complexity affect monitoring in high-functioning adults 
with autism spectrum disorder.

Koolen S(1), Vissers CT, Egger JI, Verhoeven L.

Author information:
(1)Vincent van Gogh Institute for Psychiatry, Stationsweg 46, 5803 AC, Venray, 
The Netherlands, skoolen@vvgi.nl.

The present study examined whether individuals with autism spectrum disorder 
(ASD) are able to update and monitor working memory representations of visual 
input, and whether performance is influenced by stimulus and task complexity. 15 
high-functioning adults with ASD and 15 controls were asked to allocate either 
elements of abstract figures or semantically meaningful pictures to the correct 
category, according to a certain set of rules. In general, the groups did not 
differ on measures of intelligence, working memory, attention, fluency and 
memory. For the monitoring of allocation of abstract figures, a similar pattern 
of reaction times was found for ASD and control participants. For the monitoring 
of allocation of semantically meaningful pictures, a different response pattern 
was found, with a stronger increase in response times for the ASD than for the 
control group when the number of categories increased. This suggests that 
participants with ASD are able to monitor working memory representations, but 
suffer under more complex circumstances.

DOI: 10.1007/s10803-014-2119-5
PMID: 24838251 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


760. BMJ Support Palliat Care. 2015 Mar;5(1):34-9. doi: 
10.1136/bmjspcare-2013-000645. Epub 2014 May 16.

Impact of the Marie Curie Cancer Care Delivering Choice Programme in Somerset 
and North Somerset on place of death and hospital usage: a retrospective cohort 
study.

Purdy S(1), Lasseter G(1), Griffin T(2), Wye L(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Academic Primary Care, School of Social and Community Medicine, 
University of Bristol, Bristol, UK.
(2)School for Policy Studies, University of Bristol, Bristol, UK.

OBJECTIVES: The Marie Curie Cancer Care Delivering Choice Programme (DCP) aims 
to help palliative patients be cared for in their place of choice. In this 
study, new palliative care services delivered in two counties in England 
included end-of-life care coordination centres, an out-of-hours telephone line 
and discharge in-reach nurses. The study aimed to investigate the impact of DCP 
on place of death and hospital usage (emergency department (ED) and admissions).
METHODS: Retrospective cohort of all eligible palliative patients who died over 
a 6-month period in two counties (n=3594). Participants were those who died of 
conditions considered to be eligible for end-of-life care, as defined by the 
Public Health England National End of Life Care Intelligence Network. The sample 
included people who did and did not access DCP services. DCP service, hospital 
admission and ED use data, demographic and death data were collected on all 
eligible participants. Data were analysed using descriptive statistics and 
logistic regression.
RESULTS: After adjusting for potential confounders, those using Delivering 
Choice were at least 30% less likely to die in hospital or have an emergency 
hospital admission or ED visit in the last 30 or 7 days of life than those who 
did not.
CONCLUSIONS: Recipients of DCP services were less likely to die in or use 
hospital services. Those considering new ways of providing end-of-life care 
could explore the possibility of adopting similar services and evaluating the 
outcomes from patient, carer and system perspectives.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not 
already granted under a licence) please go to 
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjspcare-2013-000645
PMCID: PMC4345906
PMID: 24838731 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


761. J Community Health. 2014 Aug;39(4):682-7. doi: 10.1007/s10900-014-9882-2.

New York City's innovative epidemiologist: the life and career of Morris 
Greenberg.

Imperato PJ(1), Imperato GH.

Author information:
(1)Downstate Medical Center, State University of New York, MSC 43, 450 Clarkson 
Avenue, Brooklyn, NY, 11203, USA, pascal.imperato@downstate.edu.

Dr Morris Greenberg was an eminent American epidemiologist who served with the 
New York City Department of Health for a 40 year period, from 1920 until his 
passing in 1960. In 1946, he became Director of the department's Bureau of 
Preventable Diseases. In this role, he set very high standards for outbreak and 
epidemic investigations joined with a commitment to scholarly research and 
collaboration with the city's medical centers. He received his medical degree 
from Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons and then interned at 
Bellevue Hospital in New York City. He later trained in pediatrics in Vienna, 
Austria and received a Master of Science in Public Health degree from Columbia 
University School of Public Health. In 1942, he became a member of the teaching 
staff at the School of Public Health. During his years with the New York City 
Department of Health he led efforts to control outbreaks of smallpox and 
rickettsialpox, and initiated important studies of poliomyelitis, hepatitis, 
trichinosis, congenital cardiac anomalies in children, and the embryopathic 
effects of rubella in pregnancy. Dr. Greenberg's outbreak and epidemic 
investigations were popularized by The New Yorker writer, Berton Roueché, whose 
most widely read book remains, Eleven Blue Men and other Narratives of Medical 
Detection. The book's title is based on Greenberg's investigation of accidental 
sodium nitrite poisoning among eleven elderly men in Manhattan who as a result, 
became cyanotic. A pioneer in epidemiology and the prevention and control of 
communicable disease, Greenberg established very high performance standards for 
the discipline before there was a Center for Disease Control and Prevention and 
an Epidemic Intelligence Service in the United States.

DOI: 10.1007/s10900-014-9882-2
PMID: 24838855 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


762. J Child Neurol. 2015 Jan;30(1):42-7. doi: 10.1177/0883073814535486. Epub 2014 
May 16.

Cognitive development in children with language impairment, and correlation 
between language and intelligence development in kindergarten children with 
developmental delay.

Liao SF(1), Liu JC(2), Hsu CL(3), Chang MY(4), Chang TM(4), Cheng H(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Changhua Christian 
Hospital, Changhua, Taiwan School of Medicine, Chung Shan Medical University, 
Taichung, Taiwan sueliao3@gmail.com.
(2)Division of Speech-Language Pathology, Department of Physical Medicine and 
Rehabilitation, Changhua Christian Hospital, Changhua, Taiwan.
(3)Child Development Center, Changhua Christian Hospital, Changhua, Taiwan.
(4)Division of Pediatric Neurology, Department of Pediatrics, Changhua Christian 
Hospital, Changhua, Taiwan.
(5)Child Development Center, Changhua Christian Hospital, Changhua, Taiwan 
Department of Psychiatry, Changhua Christian Hospital, Changhua, Taiwan.

We performed a retrospective review of 65 children with developmental delay. The 
male-to-female ratio was 2.25 : 1, and the mean age was 5.8 years; performance 
IQ was 94.8, verbal IQ was 83, and full-scale IQ was 87.4. Twenty-three (35%) 
children had normal language development, 13 (20%) had below average language 
development, and 29 (45%) had developmental language disorder. Performance IQ 
was significantly better than verbal IQ in all children (P < .001), and there 
was no difference within the 3 language groups. The performance IQ (P = .007) of 
children with developmental language disorder and specific language impairment 
was significantly lower than that of children with normal language development. 
Performance IQ was found to be correlated with language score (r = .309, P = 
.012). The children with language impairment were associated with lower IQ 
scores. The discrepancy between performance IQ and verbal IQ persisted in 
children with developmental delay, not only in children with language disorder.

© The Author(s) 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/0883073814535486
PMID: 24838950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


763. Crim Behav Ment Health. 2015 Feb;25(1):28-41. doi: 10.1002/cbm.1912. Epub 2014 
May 16.

Adolescent male hazardous drinking and participation in organised activities: 
involvement in team sports is associated with less hazardous drinking in young 
offenders.

Hallingberg B(1), Moore S, Morgan J, Bowen K, van Goozen SH.

Author information:
(1)Violence and Society Research Group, School of Dentistry, Cardiff University, 
Heath Park, Cardiff, CF14 4XY, UK.

BACKGROUND: There is a lack of research investigating organised activity 
participation and associated alcohol use in vulnerable groups.
AIMS: The purpose of this research was to test and compare associations between 
participation in organised activities and indicators of hazardous drinking 
between young offenders and young non-offenders.
METHODS: Two groups of 13-18 year-old males were recruited in Cardiff, UK: 93 
young offenders and 53 non-offenders from secondary schools matched on estimated 
IQ, sex and socioeconomic status. Indicators of hazardous drinking were measured 
using the Fast Alcohol Screening Test (FAST). Organised activity participation 
and externalising behaviour was measured by the Youth Self Report. The Wechsler 
Abbreviated Scale of Intelligence was also administered.
RESULTS: Young offenders participated in fewer organised activities and had 
higher FAST scores than non-offenders. Young offenders and non-offenders 
significantly differed on mean FAST scores if they participated in no organised 
activities but not if they participated in at least one team sport. 
Externalising behaviour problems were unrelated to participation in organised 
activities.
CONCLUSIONS: Although young offenders were less likely to have participated in 
organised activities, for them, participation in a team sport was associated 
with less hazardous drinking. Vulnerable youths who might benefit most from 
sporting activities actually access them the least. Future research should 
identify the different barriers to participation that they face.

© 2014 The Authors. Criminal Behaviour and Mental Health published by John Wiley 
& Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/cbm.1912
PMID: 24839197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


764. Sleep Breath. 2015 Mar;19(1):221-30. doi: 10.1007/s11325-014-1000-2. Epub 2014 
May 17.

Cognition and nocturnal disturbance in OSA: the importance of accounting for age 
and premorbid intelligence.

Olaithe M(1), Skinner TC, Hillman D, Eastwood PE, Bucks RS.

Author information:
(1)School of Psychology, University of Western Australia (M304), 35 Stirling Hwy 
Crawley, WA, 6009, Perth, Australia.

INTRODUCTION: Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is a common disorder that is 
associated with impaired attention, memory and executive function. However, the 
mechanisms underlying such dysfunction are unclear. To determine the influence 
of sleep fragmentation and hypoxia, this study examined the effect of sleep 
fragmentation and hypoxia on cognition in OSA, while controlling for potentially 
confounding variables including sleepiness, age and premorbid intelligence.
METHOD: Participants with and without OSA (N = 150) were recruited from the 
general community and a tertiary hospital sleep clinic. All underwent 
comprehensive, laboratory-based polysomnography (PSG) and completed assessments 
of cognition including attention, short- and long-term memory and executive 
function. Structural equation modelling (SEM) was used to construct a 
theoretically-driven model to examine the relationships between hypoxia and 
sleep fragmentation, and cognitive function.
RESULTS: Although after controlling for IQ, increased sleep disturbance was a 
significant predictor of decreased attention (p = 0.04) and decreased executive 
function (p = 0.05), controlling for age removes these significant 
relationships. No significant predictors of memory function were found.
CONCLUSIONS: The mechanisms underlying the effects of OSA on cognition remain to 
be defined. Implications are discussed in light of these findings.

DOI: 10.1007/s11325-014-1000-2
PMID: 24839237 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


765. Trends Cogn Sci. 2014 Aug;18(8):404-13. doi: 10.1016/j.tics.2014.04.004. Epub 
2014 May 16.

Cognition from the bottom up: on biological inspiration, body morphology, and 
soft materials.

Pfeifer R(1), Iida F(2), Lungarella M(3).

Author information:
(1)Artificial Intelligence Laboratory, Department of Informatics, University of 
Zürich, Andreasstrasse 15, CH-8050 Zürich, Switzerland. Electronic address: 
pfeifer@ifi.uzh.ch.
(2)Bio-Inspired Robotics Laboratory, Institute of Robotics and Intelligent 
Systems, ETH Zürich, Leonhardstrasse 27, CH-8092 Zürich, Switzerland. Electronic 
address: iidaf@ethz.ch.
(3)Dynamic Devices AG, Technoparkstrasse 1, CH-8005 Zürich, Switzerland. 
Electronic address: lunga@dynamicdevices.ch.

Traditionally, in cognitive science the emphasis is on studying cognition from a 
computational point of view. Studies in biologically inspired robotics and 
embodied intelligence, however, provide strong evidence that cognition cannot be 
analyzed and understood by looking at computational processes alone, but that 
physical system-environment interaction needs to be taken into account. In this 
opinion article, we review recent progress in cognitive developmental science 
and robotics, and expand the notion of embodiment to include soft materials and 
body morphology in the big picture. We argue that we need to build our 
understanding of cognition from the bottom up; that is, all the way from how our 
body is physically constructed.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tics.2014.04.004
PMID: 24839893 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


766. J Biomed Opt. 2014 May;19(5):057009. doi: 10.1117/1.JBO.19.5.057009.

Classification of reflected signals from cavitated tooth surfaces using an 
artificial intelligence technique incorporating a fiber optic displacement 
sensor.

Rahman HA(1), Harun SW(2), Arof H(3), Irawati N(4), Musirin I(5), Ibrahim F(6), 
Ahmad H(4).

Author information:
(1)University of Malaya, Department of Electrical Engineering, Faculty of 
Engineering, Kuala Lumpur 50603, MalaysiabUniversity of Malaya, Photonics 
Research Centre, Department of Physics, Faculty of Science, Kuala Lumpur 50603, 
MalaysiacUniversiti Teknologi.
(2)University of Malaya, Department of Electrical Engineering, Faculty of 
Engineering, Kuala Lumpur 50603, MalaysiabUniversity of Malaya, Photonics 
Research Centre, Department of Physics, Faculty of Science, Kuala Lumpur 50603, 
Malaysia.
(3)University of Malaya, Department of Electrical Engineering, Faculty of 
Engineering, Kuala Lumpur 50603, Malaysia.
(4)University of Malaya, Photonics Research Centre, Department of Physics, 
Faculty of Science, Kuala Lumpur 50603, Malaysia.
(5)Universiti Teknologi MARA (UiTM), Faculty of Electrical Engineering, Shah 
Alam 40450, Malaysia.
(6)University of Malaya, Medical Informatics and Biological 
Micro-electro-mechanical Systems Specialized Laboratory, Department of 
Biomedical Engineering, Faculty of Engineering, Kuala Lumpur 50603, Malaysia.

An enhanced dental cavity diameter measurement mechanism using an 
intensity-modulated fiber optic displacement sensor (FODS) scanning and imaging 
system, fuzzy logic as well as a single-layer perceptron (SLP) neural network, 
is presented. The SLP network was employed for the classification of the 
reflected signals, which were obtained from the surfaces of teeth samples and 
captured using FODS. Two features were used for the classification of the 
reflected signals with one of them being the output of a fuzzy logic. The test 
results showed that the combined fuzzy logic and SLP network methodology 
contributed to a 100% classification accuracy of the network. The 
high-classification accuracy significantly demonstrates the suitability of the 
proposed features and classification using SLP networks for classifying the 
reflected signals from teeth surfaces, enabling the sensor to accurately measure 
small diameters of tooth cavity of up to 0.6 mm. The method remains simple 
enough to allow its easy integration in existing dental restoration support 
systems.

DOI: 10.1117/1.JBO.19.5.057009
PMID: 24839996 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


767. Psychol Assess. 2014 Sep;26(3):789-805. doi: 10.1037/a0036745. Epub 2014 May 19.

Comparing Cattell-Horn-Carroll factor models: differences between bifactor and 
higher order factor models in predicting language achievement.

Beaujean AA(1), Parkin J(2), Parker S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Educational Psychology, Baylor University.
(2)Lake Washington School District.

Previous research using the Cattell-Horn-Carroll (CHC) theory of cognitive 
abilities has shown a relationship between cognitive ability and academic 
achievement. Most of this research, however, has been done using the 
Woodcock-Johnson family of instruments with a higher order factor model. For CHC 
theory to grow, research should be done with other assessment instruments and 
tested with other factor models. This study examined the relationship between 
different factor models of CHC theory and the factors' relationships with 
language-based academic achievement (i.e., reading and writing). Using the 
co-norming sample for the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children--4th Edition 
and the Wechsler Individual Achievement Test--2nd Edition, we found that 
bifactor and higher order models of the subtests of the Wechsler Intelligence 
Scale for Children-4th Edition produced a different set of Stratum II factors, 
which, in turn, have very different relationships with the language achievement 
variables of the Wechsler Individual Achievement Test--2nd Edition. We conclude 
that the factor model used to represent CHC theory makes little difference when 
general intelligence is of major interest, but it makes a large difference when 
the Stratum II factors are of primary concern, especially when they are used to 
predict other variables.

PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/a0036745
PMID: 24840178 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


768. Otol Neurotol. 2014 Oct;35(9):1650-7. doi: 10.1097/MAO.0000000000000423.

Emotional intelligence in association with quality of life in patients recently 
diagnosed with vestibular schwannoma.

van Leeuwen BM(1), Borst JM, Putter H, Jansen JC, van der Mey AG, Kaptein AA.

Author information:
(1)*Department of Otorhinolaryngology and Head and Neck Surgery, and †Department 
of Medical Statistics, and ‡Department of Medical Psychology, Leiden University 
Medical Center, Leiden, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was two-fold. First, to examine the 
levels of emotional intelligence in patients recently diagnosed with vestibular 
schwannoma, in comparison to those of healthy individuals and patients with 
other physical illness. Second, to evaluate the correlation between Emotional 
Intelligence and quality of life.
STUDY DESIGN: Cross sectional study in a university tertiary referral center.
METHODS: Consecutive patients (mean age [range], 56.4 [17-85] yr) diagnosed with 
vestibular schwannoma between April 2011 and October 2012 (N = 254). 
Sociodemographic characteristics, clinical characteristics, disease-specific 
quality of life (PANQOL), and Emotional Intelligence (TEIQue-SF) were assessed 
by questionnaire before the start of medical treatment.
RESULTS: Levels of Emotional Intelligence in patients with vestibular schwannoma 
(N = 178; response rate 70.1%) were significantly lower compared with healthy 
individuals and patients with cancer. Emotional Intelligence was highly 
positively correlated to disease-specific quality of life. Balance disorders and 
cranial nerve dysfunction made a significant negative contribution to the 
quality of life. For educational level, a significant positive contribution was 
found as well.
CONCLUSION: The substantial impact of a vestibular schwannoma-diagnosis on a 
psychological measure (i.e., Emotional Intelligence) in the affected patients as 
demonstrated in our study has important clinical and research implications when 
developing guidelines about counselling of these patients. This also has to be 
taken into account when making clinical decisions about the proposed treatment. 
Addressing Emotional Intelligence may be helpful in the development of a 
self-management program for patients with vestibular schwannoma.

DOI: 10.1097/MAO.0000000000000423
PMID: 24841918 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


769. Psychiatry Investig. 2014 Apr;11(2):112-8. doi: 10.4306/pi.2014.11.2.112. Epub 
2014 Apr 11.

Mediating effects of cognitive effort and depression on intelligence, memory, 
and executive functions in individuals with mild traumatic brain injury.

Na KS(1), Jung HY(2), Lee SI(2), Kim SG(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Gachon University Gil Medical Center, Incheon, 
Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Soonchunhyang University Bucheon Hospital, Bucheon, 
Republic of Korea.

OBJECTIVE: Mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI) is frequently associated with 
psychiatric symptoms and cognitive dysfunction, as well as with the receipt of 
workers' compensation, as many mTBIs occur due to work-related accidents. We 
hypothesized that depression and insufficient cognitive effort mediate the 
relationship between sociodemographic variables and cognitive dysfunction in 
mTBI.
METHODS: A retrospective chart review study was conducted using 115 records of 
patients with mTBI. Cognitive effort was measured based on scores on the Rey 
15-Item Test. Multivariate linear regression analysis was performed to examine 
factors predictive of cognitive functions. Path analysis was subsequently 
performed to investigate the mediating effects of depression and cognitive 
effort in relation to receipt of workers' compensation and demographic 
variables.
RESULTS: Fifteen of the 115 participants (13.0%) received failing scores on the 
Rey 15-Item Test, which indicated insufficient cognitive effort. Path analysis 
indicated that cognitive effort mediated the effects of age and workers' 
compensation on cognitive functions.
CONCLUSION: Given the significant mediating effects of cognitive effort on 
cognitive performance, it is important to address patient motivation and 
encourage mTBI patients covered by workers' compensation to perform tests with 
authentic effort.

DOI: 10.4306/pi.2014.11.2.112
PMCID: PMC4023083
PMID: 24843364


770. Neuroimage. 2014 Oct 1;99:93-102. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2014.05.020. Epub 
2014 May 17.

Shape of the basal ganglia in preadolescent children is associated with 
cognitive performance.

Sandman CA(1), Head K(2), Muftuler LT(3), Su L(4), Buss C(5), Davis EP(6).

Author information:
(1)Early Human and Lifespan Development Program, Department of Psychiatry and 
Human Behavior, University of California Irvine, USA. Electronic address: 
casandma@uci.edu.
(2)Early Human and Lifespan Development Program, Department of Psychiatry and 
Human Behavior, University of California Irvine, USA.
(3)Department of Neurosurgery, Medical College of Wisconsin, USA.
(4)Department of Radiological Sciences, University of California Irvine, USA.
(5)Early Human and Lifespan Development Program, Department of Psychiatry and 
Human Behavior, University of California Irvine, USA; Department of Pediatrics, 
University of California Irvine, USA; Institut für Medizinische Psychologie, 
Charité Centrum für Human- und Gesundheitswissenschaften, Charité 
Universitätsmedizin, Germany.
(6)Early Human and Lifespan Development Program, Department of Psychiatry and 
Human Behavior, University of California Irvine, USA; Department of Psychology, 
University of Denver, USA.

Current studies support the belief that high levels of performance and 
intellectual abilities are associated with increased brain size or volume. With 
few exceptions, this conclusion is restricted to studies of post-adolescent 
subjects and to cerebral cortex. There is evidence that "bigger is better" may 
not pertain to children and further, that there are areas of the brain in which 
larger structures are associated with cognitive deficits. In 50 preadolescent 
children (21 girls) a structural survey of the brain (VBM) was conducted to 
determine and locate areas in which gray matter volume was associated with poor 
cognitive performance. Only increased gray matter volume in particular areas of 
the basal ganglia and specifically the putamen was significantly associated with 
poor performance on tests of memory, response speed and a general marker and 
subtests of intelligence. Based on the VBM findings, volumetric analysis of 
basal ganglia structures was performed using FSL/FIRST. However, no significant 
changes in total volume of putamen or other basal ganglia structures were 
detected with this analysis. The disagreement between measures of localized gray 
matter differences and volumetric analysis suggested that there might be local 
regional deformity rather than widespread volumetric changes of the putamen. 
Surface analysis with FSL/FIRST demonstrated that bilateral outward deformation 
of the putamen, but especially the left, was associated with poor performance on 
several cognitive tests. Expansion of the globus pallidus and caudate nucleus 
also was associated with poor performance. Moreover a significant association 
was detected between a reliable test of language-free intelligence and 
topographically distinct outward and inward deformation of the putamen. 
Expansion and contraction of the putamen as a predictor of intelligence may 
explain why this association was not observed with measures of total volume. 
These results suggest that deformity is a sensitive measure of function, and 
that distortion of the basal ganglia may be a neurophenotype for risk of 
developmental impairment.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2014.05.020
PMCID: PMC4112008
PMID: 24844741 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


771. Hum Brain Mapp. 2014 Oct;35(10):5295-305. doi: 10.1002/hbm.22550. Epub 2014 May 
21.

Heritability of structural brain network topology: a DTI study of 156 twins.

Bohlken MM(1), Mandl RC, Brouwer RM, van den Heuvel MP, Hedman AM, Kahn RS, 
Hulshoff Pol HE.

Author information:
(1)University Medical Center Utrecht-Brain Center Rudolf Magnus, Utrecht, The 
Netherlands.

Individual variation in structural brain network topology has been associated 
with heritable behavioral phenotypes such as intelligence and schizophrenia, 
making it a candidate endophenotype. However, little is known about the genetic 
influences on individual variation in structural brain network topology. 
Moreover, the extent to which structural brain network topology overlaps with 
heritability for integrity and volume of white matter remains unknown. In this 
study, structural network topology was examined using diffusion tensor imaging 
at 3T. Binary connections between 82 structurally defined brain regions per 
subject were traced, allowing for estimation of individual topological network 
properties. Heritability of normalized characteristic path length (λ), 
normalized clustering coefficient (γ), microstructural integrity (FA), and 
volume of the white matter were estimated using a twin design, including 156 
adult twins from the newly acquired U-TWIN cohort. Both γ and λ were estimated 
to be under substantial genetic influence. The heritability of γ was estimated 
to be 68%, the heritability estimate for λ was estimated to be 57%. Genetic 
influences on network measures were found to be partly overlapping with 
volumetric and microstructural properties of white matter, but the largest 
component of genetic variance was unique to both network traits. Normalized 
clustering coefficient and normalized characteristic path length are 
substantially heritable, and influenced by independent genetic factors that are 
largely unique to network measures, but partly also implicated in white matter 
directionality and volume. Thus, network measures provide information about 
genetic influence on brain structure, independent of global white matter 
characteristics such as volume and microstructural directionality.

Copyright © 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/hbm.22550
PMCID: PMC6868932
PMID: 24845163 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


772. J Pers Disord. 2014 Oct;28(5):698-719. doi: 10.1521/pedi_2014_28_140. Epub 2014 
May 20.

Affective decision making in women with borderline personality disorder.

LeGris J, Toplak M, Links PS.

The affective decision making of 41 recently treated outpatient women with 
borderline personality disorder (BPD) was compared to 41 healthy controls using 
the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT). Non-affective executive functions (EF) of working 
memory, interference control, and motor inhibition were also compared. 
Associations among affective and non-affective EF were examined. Despite normal 
range intelligence, Stroop interference, motor inhibition, and working memory, 
women with BPD made significantly more disadvantageous IGT decisions than 
controls (Cohen's d = .72) that were unrelated to substance abuse history, 
education, psychotropic use, or attentional deficits. Correlates of EF and IGT 
performance varied by group. Intellect, BPD, and intact behavioral control 
explained 35% of the adjusted variance in net IGT performance. Disadvantageous 
IGT decision making was the only EF to predict BPD. IGT deficits in BPD may be 
separable from IQ and other EF as supported by the somatic marker hypothesis and 
suggest a stable, trait-like vulnerability favoring immediate reward over 
long-term gain in women with the disorder.

DOI: 10.1521/pedi_2014_28_140
PMID: 24845226 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


773. J Gen Psychol. 2014;141(2):98-112. doi: 10.1080/00221309.2013.870121.

Assessing working memory capacity through time-constrained elementary 
activities.

Lucidi A(1), Loaiza V, Camos V, Barrouillet P.

Author information:
(1)a Université de Genève.

Working memory (WM) capacity measured through complex span tasks is among the 
best predictors of fluid intelligence (Gf). These tasks usually involve 
maintaining memoranda while performing complex cognitive activities that require 
a rather high level of education (e.g., reading comprehension, arithmetic), 
restricting their range of applicability. Because individual differences in such 
complex activities are nothing more than the concatenation of small differences 
in their elementary constituents, complex span tasks involving elementary 
processes should be as good of predictors of Gf as traditional tasks. The 
present study showed that two latent variables issued from either traditional or 
new span tasks involving time-constrained elementary activities were similarly 
correlated with Gf. Moreover, a model with a single unitary WM factor had a 
similar fit as a model with two distinct WM factors. Thus, time-constrained 
elementary activities can be integrated in WM tasks, permitting the assessment 
of WM in a wider range of populations.

DOI: 10.1080/00221309.2013.870121
PMID: 24846786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


774. Front Psychiatry. 2014 May 7;5:45. doi: 10.3389/fpsyt.2014.00045. eCollection 
2014.

Neurocognitive Decrements are Present in Intellectually Superior Schizophrenia.

Vaskinn A(1), Ueland T(2), Melle I(3), Agartz I(4), Andreassen OA(3), Sundet 
K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Oslo , Oslo , Norway ; NORMENT Centre 
of Excellence/K.G. Jebsen Centre for Psychosis Research, Oslo University 
Hospital , Oslo , Norway.
(2)NORMENT Centre of Excellence/K.G. Jebsen Centre for Psychosis Research, Oslo 
University Hospital , Oslo , Norway.
(3)NORMENT Centre of Excellence/K.G. Jebsen Centre for Psychosis Research, Oslo 
University Hospital , Oslo , Norway ; Institute of Clinical Medicine, University 
of Oslo , Oslo , Norway.
(4)NORMENT Centre of Excellence/K.G. Jebsen Centre for Psychosis Research, Oslo 
University Hospital , Oslo , Norway ; Institute of Clinical Medicine, University 
of Oslo , Oslo , Norway ; Department of Psychiatric Research, Diakonhjemmet 
Hospital , Oslo , Norway.

Data suggest that individuals with schizophrenia (SZ) and superior intelligence 
can present without specific neurocognitive deficits. However, neurocognitive 
decrements, defined as worse cognition than expected, have been reported in 
practically all SZ cases. This study investigated if neurocognitive decrements 
are present in intellectually superior SZ by comparing the neuropsychological 
profile of SZ cases with IQ-matched healthy controls (HC) across intellectual 
levels. Participants with SZ and HCs were stratified into three IQ-groups; 
intellectually low (IQ 80-95; SZ n = 65 and HC n = 13), intellectually normal 
(IQ = 100-115; SZ n = 111 and HC n = 115), and intellectually superior 
(IQ ≥ 120; SZ n = 20 and HC n = 50). A repeated measures multivariate analysis 
of co-variance compared performance on eight selected neuropsychological tests 
across IQ-strata and diagnostic group. Differences in clinical characteristics 
and social functioning in SZ across IQ-strata were investigated with 
multivariate and univariate analyses of variance. Intellectually superior SZ 
participants scored within normal limits, but had neurocognitive decrements 
compared to superior HCs. Decrements were of the same magnitude as in the low 
and normal IQ-strata. Levels of functional impairments and clinical 
characteristics in participants with SZ did not differ significantly across 
IQ-strata. Results indicate that neurocognitive decrements are present in 
intellectually superior SZ to the same extent as in intellectually low and 
intellectually normal SZ, supporting the notion that SZ is a neurocognitive 
disorder. Similar levels of social functional deficits and clinical symptoms 
suggest similar disease processes in SZ across intellectual level.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyt.2014.00045
PMCID: PMC4019871
PMID: 24847284


775. Front Psychol. 2014 May 9;5:415. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.00415. eCollection 
2014.

Disentangling the effects of working memory, language, parental education, and 
non-verbal intelligence on children's mathematical abilities.

Pina V(1), Fuentes LJ(1), Castillo A(1), Diamantopoulou S(1).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Psicología Básica y Metodología, Facultad de Psicología, 
Regional Campus of International Excellence "Campus Mare Nostrum," Universidad 
de Murcia Murcia, Spain.

It is assumed that children's performance in mathematical abilities is 
influenced by several factors such as working memory (WM), verbal ability, 
intelligence, and socioeconomic status. The present study explored the 
contribution of those factors to mathematical performance taking a componential 
view of both WM and mathematics. We explored the existing relationship between 
different WM components (verbal and spatial) with tasks that make differential 
recruitment of the central executive, and simple and complex mathematical skills 
in a sample of 102 children in grades 4-6. The main findings point to a 
relationship between the verbal WM component and complex word arithmetic 
problems, whereas language and non-verbal intelligence were associated with 
knowledge of quantitative concepts and arithmetic ability. The spatial WM 
component was associated with the subtest Series, whereas the verbal component 
was with the subtest Concepts. The results also suggest a positive relationship 
between parental educational level and children's performance on Quantitative 
Concepts. These findings suggest that specific cognitive skills might be trained 
in order to improve different aspects of mathematical ability.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.00415
PMCID: PMC4023045
PMID: 24847306


776. J Neurooncol. 2014 Aug;119(1):197-205. doi: 10.1007/s11060-014-1476-4. Epub 2014 
May 22.

The relationship between working memory and cerebral white matter volume in 
survivors of childhood brain tumors treated with conformal radiation therapy.

Jacola LM(1), Ashford JM, Reddick WE, Glass JO, Ogg RJ, Merchant TE, Conklin HM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, 262 Danny 
Thomas Place, Mail Stop # 740, Memphis, TN, 38105, USA.

Survivors of childhood brain tumors (BTs) treated with CNS-directed therapy show 
changes in cerebral white matter that are related to neurocognitive late 
effects. We examined the association between white matter volume and working 
memory ability in survivors treated with conformal radiation therapy (CRT). 
Fifty survivors (25 males, age at assessment = 13.14 ± 2.88, age at CRT = 7.41 ± 
3.41 years) completed Digit Span from the Wechsler Intelligence Scales for 
Children, 4th Edition and experimental Self-Ordered Search (SOS) tasks as 
measures of working memory. Caregiver ratings were obtained using the Behavior 
Rating Inventory of Executive Function. MRI exams were acquired on a 1.5 T 
scanner. Volumes of normal appearing white matter (NAWM) were quantified using a 
well-validated automated segmentation and classification program. Correlational 
analyses demonstrated that NAWM volumes were significantly larger in males and 
participants with tumors located in the infratentorial space. Correlations 
between NAWM volume and Digit Span Backward were distributed across anterior and 
posterior regions, with evidence for greater right hemisphere involvement (r = 
.32-.34, p ≤ .05). Correlations between NAWM volume with Digit Span Backward (r 
= .44-.52; p ≤ .05) and NAWM volume with SOS-Object Total (r = .45-.52, p ≤ .05) 
were of greater magnitude in females. No relationship was found between NAWM 
volume and caregiver report. Working memory performance in survivors of 
pediatric BTs treated with CRT are related to regionally specific NAWM volume. 
Developmental differences in cerebral myelination may explain findings of 
greater risk for neurocognitive late effects in female survivors. Future studies 
are needed to better isolate vulnerable white matter pathways, thus facilitating 
the development of neuroprotective interventions.

DOI: 10.1007/s11060-014-1476-4
PMCID: PMC4133306
PMID: 24847967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


777. Am J Med Genet A. 2014 Sep;164A(9):2180-6. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.a.36615. Epub 2014 
May 21.

Autism spectrum disorders and hyperactive/impulsive behaviors in Japanese 
patients with Prader-Willi syndrome: a comparison between maternal uniparental 
disomy and deletion cases.

Ogata H(1), Ihara H, Murakami N, Gito M, Kido Y, Nagai T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Dokkyo Medical University Koshigaya Hospital, 
Koshigaya, Japan.

This study aims to compare maternal uniparental disomy 15 (mUPD) and a paternal 
deletion of 15q11-13 (DEL) of Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) in regard to autism 
spectrum disorders (ASD). Forty-five Japanese individuals with PWS were 
recruited from a single recruitment center. The participants consisted of 22 
children (aged from 6 to 12) and 23 adolescents (aged from 13 to 19). Six 
children and seven adolescents were confirmed as having mUPD. Sixteen children 
and 16 adolescents were confirmed as having DEL. Under blindness to the 
participants' genotypes, a single psychologist carried out behavioral and 
psychological assessments, including the Wechsler Intelligence Scales, Pervasive 
Developmental Disorders Autism Society Japan Rating Scale (PARS), and 
ADHD-Rating Scale-IV (ADHD-RS-IV). Two comparisons were made: one between mUPD 
and DEL children and another between mUPD and DEL adolescents. In children, no 
significant differences were found between mUPD and DEL participants in terms of 
autistic (PARS childhood, P = 0.657) and impulsive behaviors (ADHD-RS-IV 
hyperactive/impulsive, P = 0.275). In adolescents, mUPD patients showed 
significantly more autistic symptomatology (PARS adolescent, P = 0.027) and 
significantly more impulsive behavior (ADHD-RS-IV hyperactive/impulsive, P = 
0.01) than DEL patients. Our findings about Japanese PWS patients were 
consistent with previous researches from western countries not focused on Asian 
patients, indicating that mUPD cases would be more prone to ASD than DEL cases, 
regardless of ethnoregional differences. In addition, our data suggested that 
the behavioral difference between mUPD and DEL cases in terms of autistic and 
impulsive symptoms tend to be unrecognizable in their childhood.

© 2014 The Authors. American Journal of Medical Genetics Part A Published by 
Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.a.36615
PMCID: PMC4278412
PMID: 24850752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


778. Biol Lett. 2014 May;10(5):20140058. doi: 10.1098/rsbl.2014.0058.

Marmoset monkeys evaluate third-party reciprocity.

Kawai N(1), Yasue M(2), Banno T(3), Ichinohe N(3).

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Information Science, Nagoya University, Nagoya, Japan 
Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience, 
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Tokyo, Japan 
kawai@is.nagoya-u.ac.jp.
(2)Graduate School of Information Science, Nagoya University, Nagoya, Japan 
Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience, 
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience, 
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Tokyo, Japan.

Many non-human primates have been observed to reciprocate and to understand 
reciprocity in one-to-one social exchanges. A recent study demonstrated that 
capuchin monkeys are sensitive to both third-party reciprocity and violation of 
reciprocity; however, whether this sensitivity is a function of general 
intelligence, evidenced by their larger brain size relative to other primates, 
remains unclear. We hypothesized that highly pro-social primates, even with a 
relatively smaller brain, would be sensitive to others' reciprocity. Here, we 
show that common marmosets discriminated between human actors who reciprocated 
in social exchanges with others and those who did not. Monkeys accepted rewards 
less frequently from non-reciprocators than they did from reciprocators when the 
non-reciprocators had retained all food items, but they accepted rewards from 
both actors equally when they had observed reciprocal exchange between the 
actors. These results suggest that mechanisms to detect unfair reciprocity in 
third-party social exchanges do not require domain-general higher cognitive 
ability based on proportionally larger brains, but rather emerge from the 
cooperative and pro-social tendencies of species, and thereby suggest this 
ability evolved in multiple primate lineages.

© 2014 The Author(s) Published by the Royal Society. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1098/rsbl.2014.0058
PMCID: PMC4046368
PMID: 24850892 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


779. Healthc Financ Manage. 2014 May;68(5):74-9.

Determining your organization's 'risk capability'.

Hannah B, Hancock M.

An assessment of a provider's level of risk capability should focus on three key 
elements: Business intelligence, including sophisticated analytical models that 
can offer insight into the expected cost and quality of care for a given 
population. Clinical enterprise maturity, marked by the ability to improve 
health outcomes and to manage utilization and costs to drive change. Revenue 
transformation, emphasizing the need for a revenue cycle platform that allows 
for risk acceptance and management and that provides incentives for performance 
against defined objectives.

PMID: 24851456 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


780. Euro Surveill. 2014 May 15;19(19):20801. doi: 
10.2807/1560-7917.es2014.19.19.20801.

Multidisciplinary investigation of a multicountry outbreak of Salmonella Stanley 
infections associated with turkey meat in the European Union, August 2011 to 
January 2013.

Kinross P(1), van Alphen L, Martinez Urtaza J, Struelens M, Takkinen J, 
Coulombier D, Makela P, Bertrand S, Mattheus W, Schmid D, Kanitz E, Rucker V, 
Krisztalovics K, Paszti J, Szogyenyi Z, Lancz Z, Rabsch W, Pfefferkorn B, Hiller 
P, Mooijman K, Gossner C.

Author information:
(1)European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC), Stockholm, Sweden.

Comment in
    Euro Surveill. 2014;19(22). pii: 20818.

Between August 2011 and January 2013, an outbreak of Salmonella enterica serovar 
Stanley (S. Stanley) infections affected 10 European Union (EU) countries, with 
a total of 710 cases recorded. Following an urgent inquiry in the Epidemic 
Intelligence Information System for food- and waterborne diseases (EPIS-FWD) on 
29 June 2012, an international investigation was initiated including EU and 
national agencies for public health, veterinary health and food safety. Two of 
three local outbreak investigations undertaken by affected countries in 2012 
identified turkey meat as a vehicle of infection. Furthermore, routine EU 
monitoring of animal sources showed that over 95% (n=298) of the 311 S. Stanley 
isolates reported from animal sampling in 2011 originated from the turkey food 
production chain. In 2004–10, none had this origin. Pulsed-field gel 
electrophoresis (PFGE) profile analysis of outbreak isolates and historical S. 
Stanley human isolates revealed that the outbreak isolates had a novel PFGE 
profile that emerged in Europe in 2011. An indistinguishable PFGE profile was 
identified in 346 of 464 human, food, feed, environmental and animal isolates 
from 16 EU countries: 102 of 112 non-human isolates tested were from the turkey 
production chain. On the basis of epidemiological and microbiological evidence, 
turkey meat was considered the primary source of human infection, following 
contamination early in the animal production chain.

DOI: 10.2807/1560-7917.es2014.19.19.20801
PMID: 24852954 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


781. J Psychiatr Res. 2014 Sep;56:28-35. doi: 10.1016/j.jpsychires.2014.04.019. Epub 
2014 May 9.

Association of COMT and PRODH gene variants with intelligence quotient (IQ) and 
executive functions in 22q11.2DS subjects.

Carmel M(1), Zarchi O(2), Michaelovsky E(3), Frisch A(3), Patya M(3), Green 
T(4), Gothelf D(5), Weizman A(6).

Author information:
(1)Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel; 
Felsenstein Medical Research Center, Petah Tikva, Israel. Electronic address: 
mcarmel@post.tau.ac.il.
(2)Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel; The Child 
Psychiatry Unit, Edmond and Lily Safra Children's Hospital, Sheba MedicalCenter, 
Tel Hashomer, Ramat Gan, Israel; Rabin Medical Center, 49100 Petah Tikva, 
Israel.
(3)Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel; 
Felsenstein Medical Research Center, Petah Tikva, Israel.
(4)Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel; The Child 
Psychiatry Unit, Edmond and Lily Safra Children's Hospital, Sheba MedicalCenter, 
Tel Hashomer, Ramat Gan, Israel; Nes-Ziyyona-Beer Yaakov Mental Health Center, 
Beer Yaakov, Israel.
(5)Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel; The Child 
Psychiatry Unit, Edmond and Lily Safra Children's Hospital, Sheba MedicalCenter, 
Tel Hashomer, Ramat Gan, Israel.
(6)Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel; 
Felsenstein Medical Research Center, Petah Tikva, Israel; Geha Mental-Health 
Center, Petah Tikva, Israel.

The 22q11.2 deletion syndrome (22q11.2DS) carries the highest genetic risk 
factor for the development of schizophrenia. We investigated the association of 
genetic variants in two schizophrenia candidate genes with executive function 
(EF) and IQ in 22q11.2DS individuals. Ninety two individuals with 22q11.2 
deletion were studied for the genetic association between COMT and PRODH 
variants and EF and IQ. Subjects were divided into children (under 12 years 
old), adolescents (between 12 and 18 years old) and adults (older than 18 
years), and genotyped for the COMT Val158Met (rs4680) and PRODH Arg185Trp 
(rs4819756) polymorphisms. The participants underwent psychiatric evaluation and 
EF assessment. Our main finding is a significant influence of the COMT Val158Met 
polymorphism on both IQ and EF performance. Specifically, 22q11.2DS subjects 
with Met allele displayed higher IQ scores in all age groups compared to Val 
carriers, reaching significance in both adolescents and adults. The Met allele 
carriers performed better than Val carriers in EF tasks, being statistically 
significant in the adult group. PRODH Arg185Trp variant did not affect IQ or EF 
in our 22q11.2DS cohort. In conclusion, functional COMT variant, but not PRODH, 
affects IQ and EF in 22q11.2DS subjects during neurodevelopment with a maximal 
effect at adulthood. Future studies should monitor the cognitive performance of 
the same individuals from childhood to old age.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpsychires.2014.04.019
PMID: 24853458 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


782. Environ Res. 2014 Jul;132:379-83. doi: 10.1016/j.envres.2014.04.018. Epub 2014 
May 21.

The pediatric burden of disease from lead exposure at toxic waste sites in low 
and middle income countries.

Chatham-Stephens K(1), Caravanos J(2), Ericson B(3), Landrigan P(4), Fuller 
R(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, 
One Gustave L. Levy Place, Box 1057, New York, NY 10029, USA. Electronic 
address: kevin.chatham.stephens@gmail.com.
(2)School of Public Health at Hunter College, City University of New York, 2180 
Third Avenue, New York, NY 10035, USA; Blacksmith Institute, 475 Riverside 
Drive, Suite 860, New York, NY 10115, USA.
(3)Blacksmith Institute, 475 Riverside Drive, Suite 860, New York, NY 10115, 
USA.
(4)Department of Preventive Medicine, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, 
One Gustave L. Levy Place, Box 1057, New York, NY 10029, USA; Department of 
Pediatrics, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, One Gustave L. Levy Place, 
Box 1057, New York, NY 10029, USA.

BACKGROUND: The impact of lead from toxic waste sites on children in low and 
middle income countries has not been calculated due to a lack of exposure data. 
We sought to calculate this impact in Disability Adjusted Life Years (DALYs).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Using an Integrated Exposure Uptake Biokinetic (IEUBK) 
model, we converted soil and drinking water lead levels from sites in the 
Blacksmith Institute's Toxic Sites Identification Program (TSIP) into mean blood 
lead levels (BLLs). We then calculated the incidence of mild mental retardation 
(MMR) and DALYs resulting from these BLLs.
RESULTS: The TSIP included 200 sites in 31 countries with soil (n=132) or 
drinking water (n=68) lead levels, representing 779,989 children younger than 4 
years of age potentially exposed to lead. Environmental lead levels produced a 
range of BLLs from 1.56 to 104.71 µg/dL. These BLLs equated to an estimated loss 
of 5.41-8.23 IQ points, resulting in an incidence of MMR of 6.03 per 1000 
population and 76.1 DALYs per 1000 population.
DISCUSSION: Soil and water lead levels at toxic waste sites predict BLLs that 
lower the intelligence quotient (IQ), with the resulting MMR potentially 
limiting individual- and country-level development. The preventable burden of 
disease produced by these sites highlights the need for toxic waste sites to be 
systematically identified, evaluated, and remediated.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envres.2014.04.018
PMID: 24853976 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


783. Environ Res. 2014 Jul;132:413-20. doi: 10.1016/j.envres.2014.04.015. Epub 2014 
May 21.

The possible societal impact of the decrease in U.S. blood lead levels on adult 
IQ.

Kaufman AS(1), Zhou X(2), Reynolds MR(3), Kaufman NL(4), Green GP(5), Weiss 
LG(6).

Author information:
(1)Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT, USA. Electronic address: 
alanskaufman@gmail.com.
(2)Curriculum Associates, Boston, MA, USA. Electronic address: 
xiaobin@gmail.com.
(3)University of Kansas, Lawrence, KS, USA. Electronic address: 
mrreynolds@ku.edu.
(4)Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT, USA. Electronic address: 
nadeenk@gmail.com.
(5)California State University-San Bernardino, San Bernardino, CA, USA. 
Electronic address: garo@garogreen.com.
(6)Pearson Clinical Assessment, San Antonio, TX, USA. Electronic address: 
Larry.Weiss@Pearson.com.

BACKGROUND: The dramatic decrease in U.S. blood lead levels (BLLs) since the 
1970s has been documented--however, the anticipated societal impact on 
intelligence quotient (IQ) has not. The objectives of this study were to 
determine whether mean IQs of American adults, adjusted for demographics, have 
increased in concert with society's decreasing BLL.
METHODS: Mean IQs of eight normal adult cohorts (N=800), tested individually in 
2007 by trained clinicians, were compared using ANCOVA and correlation analysis. 
Cohorts ranged in mean societal BLLs from 4 1/2 μg/dL (born 1985-1987) to 19 
μg/dL (born 1963-1972). IQs were adjusted for confounders-education, gender, 
ethnicity, region, urban status. To control for age, we analyzed IQ data for a 
second adult sample (N=800), tested in 1995-all born when BLLs were high 
(1951-1975, BLL ≥ 15 μg/dL).
RESULTS: When controlling for education, gender, ethnicity, and region, the 
regression of IQs on BLLs was significant (r=-0.84, p<0.01); the modeled change 
in BLLs from 20 to 4 μg/dL suggests predicted increases of 3.8 IQ points (95% 
CI, 1.4-6.2). Also controlling for urban status produced significance (r=-0.88, 
p<0.01) with predicted increases of 5.2 points (95% CI, 2.4-8.0). Control 
analyses ruled out aging as a confounder.
CONCLUSIONS: The dramatic societal decreases in BLLs in the U.S. since the 1970s 
were associated with a 4-5-point increase in the mean IQs of Americans. This 
effect is consistent with researchers' predictions; however, other variables 
(e.g., medical advances) may have contributed to the IQ gains.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envres.2014.04.015
PMID: 24853978 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


784. Eat Behav. 2014 Apr;15(2):205-8. doi: 10.1016/j.eatbeh.2014.01.009. Epub 2014 
Jan 31.

Disordered eating links to body-relevant and body-irrelevant influences on 
self-evaluation.

Woodward HE(1), Rizk MT(2), Wang SS(3), Treat TA(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Iowa, 11 Seashore Hall E, Iowa City, 
IA 52240-1407, USA. Electronic address: halley-woodward@uiowa.edu.
(2)Department of Psychology, University of Iowa, 11 Seashore Hall E, Iowa City, 
IA 52240-1407, USA.
(3)Department of Psychology, Yale University, Box 208205, New Haven, CT, 
06520-8205, USA.

We investigated eating- and weight-related correlates of self-evaluation 
influences (SEIs) and examined the extent to which such SEIs can be both over- 
and undervalued and the extent to which measurement strategy affects SEIs. A 
female undergraduate sample (n = 549) completed 3 measures of SEI importance and 
questionnaires assessing disordered eating (DE), body mass index (BMI), and 
depression. SEI measures included Likert scale, rank ordering, and pairwise 
forced choice; a subset (n = 62) also completed the Shape- and Weight-Based 
Self-Esteem Scale (SAWBS). Only rank ordering, forced choice, and SAWBS 
constrain choices among SEIs, such that prioritizing one SEI necessarily 
deprioritizes another, which reflects real-world restrictions on individuals' 
allotment of time and energy (e.g., spending hours exercising daily necessarily 
reduces time available for other activities). By any measure, women with DE 
overvalue body shape and weight. The constraining measures reveal systematic 
undervaluation of intelligence and achievement among women with DE and an 
enhanced effect of DE on the overvaluation of weight and on the undervaluation 
of being a good person among those with higher BMI. Depressed women's 
self-evaluations overemphasize appearance and underemphasize interpersonal 
relationships. Self-evaluations of women with DE are marked by both over- and 
undervaluation of relevant SEIs; the overvaluation of shape and weight in DE may 
be associated with costs. Future use of constraining measures, such as forced 
choice or rank ordering, may enhance our understanding of both over- and 
underemphasized SEIs among women with DE.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eatbeh.2014.01.009
PMID: 24854805 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


785. Eat Behav. 2014 Apr;15(2):237-40. doi: 10.1016/j.eatbeh.2014.02.002. Epub 2014 
Feb 20.

The role of trait and ability emotional intelligence in bulimic symptoms.

Gardner KJ(1), Quinton S(2), Qualter P(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Psychology, University of Central Lancashire, Preston, UK. 
Electronic address: KJGardner@uclan.ac.uk.
(2)School of Psychology, Charles Sturt University, Bathurst, NSW 2795, 
Australia.
(3)School of Psychology, University of Central Lancashire, Preston, UK.

Bulimia is characterized by poor affect regulation, yet the role of emotional 
intelligence (EI) is little understood. This study examined associations between 
EI and bulimic symptoms using 235 women from community and student populations. 
They completed measures of trait and ability EI, and the Eating Disorders 
Diagnostic Scale. Results showed that deficiencies in different aspects of trait 
EI and/or ability EI are a function of symptom type: binge eating, compensatory 
behaviours or weight and shape concerns. Consistent with affect regulation 
models, self-regulatory aspects of trait EI were related to two bulimic 
symptoms: binge eating and weight and shape concerns. Ability-based self-emotion 
management was not important, and explanatory power of lower-level EI facets 
(traits or abilities) was not superior to more broadly defined EI factors. 
Results support the conclusion that trait and ability EI may maintain 
subclinical levels of bulimic symptoms but have different paths.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eatbeh.2014.02.002
PMID: 24854810 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


786. Nurse Educ Today. 2014 Aug;34(8):1155-60. doi: 10.1016/j.nedt.2014.04.024. Epub 
2014 May 6.

A national study of selection processes for student nurses and midwives.

Taylor R(1), Macduff C(2), Stephen A(3).

Author information:
(1)Anglia Ruskin University, Faculty of Health Social Care and Education, 
Chelmsford Campus, Bishop Hall Lane, Chelmsford, CM 1SQ. Electronic address: 
ruth.taylor@anglia.ac.uk.
(2)Robert Gordon University. Electronic address: c.macduff@rgu.ac.uk.
(3)Robert Gordon University. Electronic address: a.i.stephen@rgu.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: This paper presents the main findings from a project that aimed to 
evaluate selection processes for the recruitment of student nurses and midwives.
OBJECTIVES: The main objectives were to: Design The evaluation was designed 
principally to achieve explanation, with multiple case study methodology adopted 
as the main approach. Within this ambit mixed methods of data collection 
involving questionnaires and interviews were used. Participants Seven of the 
Scotland-based Higher Education Institutions participated in the research, with 
participation from Admissions Tutors, clinical interviewers, academic 
interviewers, and students.
METHODS: The methods included: a scoping questionnaire with follow-on 
questionnaire to elicit views on the strengths and limitations of chosen 
selection processes; interviews and focus groups to build on these findings. 
Analytical approaches were congruent with the chosen data collection approaches. 
Findings HEIs typically have rationales for their various chosen approaches to 
selection. However, our findings indicate that there is a lack of evidence for 
most selection approaches particularly in relation to interviewing. There is a 
growing evidence-base for the use of multiple mini interviews, and emotional 
intelligence testing.
CONCLUSIONS: There is a need to work collectively cross-UK to bring together the 
evidence-base around selection so that processes and decision-making are as 
valid, reliable, effective and transparent as possible.

Crown Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nedt.2014.04.024
PMID: 24856583 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


787. Am Soc Clin Oncol Educ Book. 2014:e140-4. doi: 10.14694/EdBook_AM.2014.34.e140.

Managing cumulative expectations in oncology: challenges and potential 
solutions.

Abernethy AP(1), Grubbs SS(1).

Author information:
(1)From the Division of Medical Oncology, Department of Medicine, Duke Clinical 
Research Institute, Duke Cancer Institute, Duke University Medical Center, 
Durham, North Carolina; Delaware Christiana Care CCOP, Helen F. Graham Cancer 
Center, Newark, Delaware.

The dedication of oncologists to their patients is undeniable. Patients given 
what can be a devastating diagnosis look to their physician for hope, guidance, 
and answers. The physician, in turn, must assimilate information from a 
staggering amount of resources and outlets and then form a plan that satisfies 
current practices and guidelines while still being consistent with the most 
current regulations set by a multitude of sources for oversight. Do all this for 
every patient in a time in which the number of new and continuing patients is 
ever increasing, and it is hardly surprising that the shocking overload can lead 
to physician burnout and, quite possibly, poorer patient care. Overload, be it 
information, task, knowledge, or expectation, is real, and to avoid succumbing, 
cancer care providers need to acknowledge that the problem exists by identifying 
the sources and admit that the problem of overload is out of control. Only then 
can providers begin to realize what can and can not be done, so that they can 
focus attention on what they are doing when they are doing it-an application of 
mindfulness. To take control of the avalanche of incoming information, providers 
need to make good use of filters, set time aside to evaluate inbound 
intelligence, and identify and (importantly) rely on a narrow set of trusted 
resources. Although strategies on coping with overloads abound, the physician 
needs to be diligent in applying the available options to keep burnout at bay.

DOI: 10.14694/EdBook_AM.2014.34.e140
PMID: 24857094 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


788. Nihon Ronen Igakkai Zasshi. 2014;51(2):178-83. doi: 10.3143/geriatrics.51.178.

[Ideal combination of dementia screening tests].

[Article in Japanese]

Osafune M(1), Deguchi K, Abe K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Okayama University Graduate School of Medicine, 
Dentistry and Pharmaceutical Science.

AIM: Although many neuropsychological tests have been developed to evaluate 
higher brain dysfunction, conducting several tests in daily medical care is very 
difficult for both the patient and the examiner. We herein reviewed the 
correlation between the results of 11 neuropsychological tests in order to 
create a new compact and easily administered combination of screening tests to 
detect dementia.
METHODS: We performed 11 neuropsychological tests in 1,674 outpatients suspected 
of having cognitive dysfunction and 46 normal control subjects. The 11 tests 
included the following examinations: the mini mental state examination (MMSE) 
and Hasegawa dementia rating scale-revised (HDS-R) for the total intelligence 
function, the frontal assessment battery (FAB) and Montreal cognitive assessment 
(MoCA) for the frontal lobe function, the neuropsychiatric inventory (NPI) and 
Abe's behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia score (ABS) for 
emotional changes, the geriatric depression scale (GDS) for depressive 
conditions, the vitality index (VI) and apathy score (AS) for reduced motivation 
and the clinical dementia rating (CDR) and Alzheimer's disease cooperative 
study-activities of daily living (ADCS-ADL) scale for ADL's. In order to 
determine the most compact test series, we compared all test features, 
correlations between the scores and the time required to complete each test.
RESULTS: Correlations were found between tests of the cognitive function, tests 
of the cognitive function vs NPI, tests of the cognitive function vs ADL, NPI vs 
ABS, NPI vs GDS, GDS vs AS, VI vs AS and CDR vs ADCS-ADL. The duration of 
testing was shorter for the FAB than for the MoCA and for the ABS than for the 
NPI.
CONCLUSIONS: A combination of six tests (MMSE or HDS-R, FAB, ABS, GDS, AS and 
ADCS-ADL) was found to be useful for screening dementia and reducing the test 
burden on the patient in daily medical practice.

DOI: 10.3143/geriatrics.51.178
PMID: 24858122 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


789. Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2014 Aug;12(8):1257-61. doi: 
10.1016/j.cgh.2014.05.013. Epub 2014 May 21.

Current and future applications of natural language processing in the field of 
digestive diseases.

Hou JK(1), Imler TD(2), Imperiale TF(3).

Author information:
(1)Center for Innovations in Quality, Effectiveness and Safety, Michael E. 
DeBakey Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Houston, Texas; Department of Medicine, 
Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas. Electronic address: jkhou@bcm.edu.
(2)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Indiana University School of 
Medicine, Indianapolis, Indiana; Department of Medicine, Indiana University 
School of Medicine, Indianapolis, Indiana; Department of Biomedical Informatics, 
Regenstrief Institute, LLC, Indianapolis, Indiana.
(3)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Indiana University School of 
Medicine, Indianapolis, Indiana; Department of Medicine, Indiana University 
School of Medicine, Indianapolis, Indiana; Center of Innovation, Health Services 
Research and Development, Richard L. Roudeboush Veterans Affairs Medical Center, 
Indianapolis, Indiana.

Natural language processing (NLP) is a technology that uses computer-based 
linguistics and artificial intelligence to identify and extract information from 
free-text data sources such as progress notes, procedure and pathology reports, 
and laboratory and radiologic test results. With the creation of large databases 
and the trajectory of health care reform, NLP holds the promise of enhancing the 
availability, quality, and utility of clinical information with the goal of 
improving documentation, quality, and efficiency of health care in the United 
States. To date, NLP has shown promise in automatically determining appropriate 
colonoscopy intervals and identifying cases of inflammatory bowel disease from 
electronic health records. The objectives of this review are to provide 
background on NLP and its associated terminology, to describe how NLP has been 
used thus far in the field of digestive diseases, and to identify its potential 
future uses.

Copyright © 2014 AGA Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cgh.2014.05.013
PMID: 24858706 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


790. J Rehabil Med. 2014 Jul;46(7):648-55. doi: 10.2340/16501977-1832.

Development of work participation in young adults with cerebral palsy: a 
longitudinal study.

Verhoef JA(1), Bramsen I, Miedema HS, Stam HJ, Roebroeck ME; Transition and 
Lifespan Research Group South West Netherlands.

Collaborators: van Meeteren J, van der Slot WM, Wiegerink DJ.

Author information:
(1)Erasmus University Medical Center, Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, 
Rotterdam University of Applied Sciences, Research Centre Innovations in Care, 
PO Box 2040, NL-3000 CA Rotterdam, The Netherlands. E-mail: J.A.C.Verhoef@hr.nl.

OBJECTIVE: To document the development of work participation in young adults 
with cerebral palsy who are transitioning into adulthood, examine associated 
characteristics, and investigate work limitations and barriers among employed 
persons.
DESIGN: Observational longitudinal cohort study.
SUBJECTS: Seventy-four young adults with cerebral palsy of average intelligence, 
aged 16-20 years at baseline.
METHODS: Work participation in 3 categories (employed, unemployed, studying) was 
assessed at baseline, 2-year and 4-year follow-ups using structured interviews. 
At 4-year follow-up, associations of work participation with demographic and 
clinical characteristics were examined using multinomial logistic regression. 
Work limitations and barriers among employed persons were evaluated using 
questionnaires.
RESULTS: From age range 16-20 years to age range 20-24 years the proportions of 
subjects who were employed and unemployed increased from 12% to 49% and 3% to 
17%, respectively; the proportion who were students decreased from 85% to 34%. 
In the age range 20-24 years, the employment rate of young adults with cerebral 
palsy was lower and the unemployment rate higher, than that of the general 
population. A lower level of gross motor function and younger age were 
associated with unemployment. Employed persons experienced few work limitations; 
28% experienced situational or health barriers.
CONCLUSION: Young adults with cerebral palsy and average intelligence are at 
risk of experiencing unfavourable developments in work participation. 
Rehabilitation services should offer support to prevent unemployment and 
occupational disability.

DOI: 10.2340/16501977-1832
PMID: 24858956 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


791. PLoS One. 2014 May 23;9(5):e97822. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0097822. 
eCollection 2014.

Particle swarm optimization with scale-free interactions.

Liu C(1), Du WB(1), Wang WX(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Electronic and Information Engineering, Beihang University, 
Beijing, People's Republic of China.
(2)School of Management, Beijing Normal University, Beijing, People's Republic 
of China.

The particle swarm optimization (PSO) algorithm, in which individuals 
collaborate with their interacted neighbors like bird flocking to search for the 
optima, has been successfully applied in a wide range of fields pertaining to 
searching and convergence. Here we employ the scale-free network to represent 
the inter-individual interactions in the population, named SF-PSO. In contrast 
to the traditional PSO with fully-connected topology or regular topology, the 
scale-free topology used in SF-PSO incorporates the diversity of individuals in 
searching and information dissemination ability, leading to a quite different 
optimization process. Systematic results with respect to several standard test 
functions demonstrate that SF-PSO gives rise to a better balance between the 
convergence speed and the optimum quality, accounting for its much better 
performance than that of the traditional PSO algorithms. We further explore the 
dynamical searching process microscopically, finding that the cooperation of hub 
nodes and non-hub nodes play a crucial role in optimizing the convergence 
process. Our work may have implications in computational intelligence and 
complex networks.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0097822
PMCID: PMC4032252
PMID: 24859007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


792. Indian J Psychol Med. 2014 Apr;36(2):198-200. doi: 10.4103/0253-7176.130995.

Fetishistic transvestism in a patient with mental retardation and psychosis.

Velayudhan R(1), Khaleel A(1), Sankar N(1), Kumar M(1), Kazhungil F(1), Raghuram 
TM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, MES Medical College, Perintalmanna, Kerala, India.

Fetishistic transvestism is a disorder of sexual preference associated with 
fantasies and sexual urges to dress in opposite gender clothing as a means of 
arousal and as an adjunct to masturbation and coitus. The disorder has been 
reported in people with learning disabilities. The disorder has been reported in 
a young male with dull normal intelligence. Transvestism though has been 
described in schizophrenia and psychosis and fetishism has been described in the 
course of simple schizophrenia, there are no reports of fetishistic transvestism 
in a patient with mental retardation and psychosis. A case of fetishistic 
transvestism in a patient with mental retardation and psychosis with treatment 
and relevant review of literature is reported.

DOI: 10.4103/0253-7176.130995
PMCID: PMC4031593
PMID: 24860226

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None.


793. Int J Pediatr Otorhinolaryngol. 2014 Jul;78(7):1147-52. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijporl.2014.04.038. Epub 2014 May 2.

Reading instead of reasoning? Predictors of arithmetic skills in children with 
cochlear implants.

Huber M(1), Kipman U(2), Pletzer B(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery, University Clinic, 
Paracelsus Medical University, Salzburg, Austria. Electronic address: 
M.Huber@salk.at.
(2)UT SPSS Statistics, 5400 Hallein, Austria.
(3)Department of Psychology & Center for Neurocognitive Research, University of 
Salzburg, Austria.

OBJECTIVES: The aim of the present study was to evaluate whether the arithmetic 
achievement of children with cochlear implants (CI) was lower or comparable to 
that of their normal hearing peers and to identify predictors of arithmetic 
achievement in children with CI. In particular we related the arithmetic 
achievement of children with CI to nonverbal IQ, reading skills and hearing 
variables.
METHODS: 23 children with CI (onset of hearing loss in the first 24 months, 
cochlear implantation in the first 60 months of life, atleast 3 years of hearing 
experience with the first CI) and 23 normal hearing peers matched by age, 
gender, and social background participated in this case control study. All 
attended grades two to four in primary schools. To assess their arithmetic 
achievement, all children completed the "Arithmetic Operations" part of the 
"Heidelberger Rechentest" (HRT), a German arithmetic test. To assess reading 
skills and nonverbal intelligence as potential predictors of arithmetic 
achievement, all children completed the "Salzburger Lesetest" (SLS), a German 
reading screening, and the Culture Fair Intelligence Test (CFIT), a nonverbal 
intelligence test.
RESULTS: Children with CI did not differ significantly from hearing children in 
their arithmetic achievement. Correlation and regression analyses revealed that 
in children with CI, arithmetic achievement was significantly (positively) 
related to reading skills, but not to nonverbal IQ. Reading skills and nonverbal 
IQ were not related to each other. In normal hearing children, arithmetic 
achievement was significantly (positively) related to nonverbal IQ, but not to 
reading skills. Reading skills and nonverbal IQ were positively correlated. 
Hearing variables were not related to arithmetic achievement.
CONCLUSIONS: Children with CI do not show lower performance in non-verbal 
arithmetic tasks, compared to normal hearing peers.

Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijporl.2014.04.038
PMID: 24861020 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


794. Rapid Commun Mass Spectrom. 2014 Jul 15;28(13):1530-4. doi: 10.1002/rcm.6929.

Isolation and stable nitrogen isotope analysis of ammonium ions in ammonium 
nitrate prills using sodium tetraphenylborate.

Howa JD(1), Lott MJ, Ehleringer JR.

Author information:
(1)IsoForensics, Inc., 421 Wakara Way, Suite 100, Salt Lake City, UT, 84108, 
USA.

RATIONALE: Because of the threat of bombings using improvised explosives 
containing ammonium nitrate (AN), law enforcement and intelligence communities 
have been interested in stable isotope techniques for tracking and 
discriminating AN sources. Separate analysis of the AN component ions ammonium 
and nitrate would add discriminatory power to these techniques.
METHODS: Ammonium ions in dissolved AN solution were isolated from samples by 
precipitation using sodium tetraphenylborate solution. We tested the isolation 
of ammonium from nitrates using solutions of ammonium and nitrate salts with 
different (15)N/(14)N isotope ratios. Ammonium tetraphenylborate and AN were 
separately analyzed for their (15)N/(14)N isotope ratios using EA-ConFlo-IRMS, 
and the (15)N/(14)N isotope ratios of the nitrate ions were calculated using 
mass balance. Ammonium and nitrate nitrogen isotope ratios were plotted as two 
separate variables.
RESULTS: Isolation of ammonium precipitate from solutions containing dissolved 
nitrates did not influence the nitrogen isotope ratios of test ammonium salts. A 
survey set of 42 AN samples showed that the ammonium and nitrate (15)N/(14)N 
isotope ratios were not significantly correlated, and the paired mean 
differences were not statistically significant. Both ammonium and nitrate were 
depleted in (15)N relative to their theoretical atmospheric sources.
CONCLUSIONS: Isolation of the ammonium ion from AN adds another dimension for 
the discrimination of forensic AN samples. This technique using sodium 
tetraphenylborate is robust and does not require specialized equipment. Our 
observations indicated that ammonium nitrogen and nitrate nitrogen have 
independent sources of isotopic variation.

Copyright © 2014 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/rcm.6929
PMID: 24861604 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


795. J Adolesc Health. 2014 Oct;55(4):542-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jadohealth.2014.03.018. 
Epub 2014 May 23.

Employment among schoolchildren and its associations with adult substance use, 
psychological well-being, and academic achievement.

Iosua EE(1), Gray AR(1), McGee R(1), Landhuis CE(2), Keane R(3), Hancox RJ(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive and Social Medicine, Dunedin School of Medicine, 
University of Otago, Dunedin, New Zealand.
(2)Department of Social Sciences, Faculty of Culture and Society, Auckland 
University of Technology, Auckland, New Zealand.
(3)Centre for Innovation, University of Otago, Dunedin, New Zealand.
(4)Department of Preventive and Social Medicine, Dunedin School of Medicine, 
University of Otago, Dunedin, New Zealand. Electronic address: 
bob.hancox@otago.ac.nz.

PURPOSE: To examine the association between paid part-time employment among 
schoolchildren, and adult substance use, psychological well-being, and academic 
achievement.
METHODS: Longitudinal data from the Dunedin Multidisciplinary Health and 
Development Study were used to evaluate the association between employment at 
each of 11, 13, and 15 years and adult smoking, regular alcohol binge drinking, 
regular cannabis use, sense of coherence, social participation, positive coping 
style, prosociality, no formal qualifications, and university degree. 
Associations were initially assessed using unadjusted regression analyses and 
then adjusted for the potential childhood confounders intelligence quotient, 
reading development, Student's Perception of Ability Scale, socioeconomic 
disadvantage, family climate, harsh parent-child interaction, parental opinion 
of their child's attitude to school, and child's personal attitude to school.
RESULTS: Employment at 11 years of age was associated with a lower odds of adult 
smoking; the odds of subsequent regular alcohol binge drinking were greater for 
those who were employed at age 13; and higher adult rates of social 
participation and prosociality were identified for adolescents who were employed 
at 15 years of age. When the potential confounders were controlled, employment 
at age 13 was predictive of both adult smoking and regular binge drinking, and 
working at 15 years of age was protective against regular cannabis use and 
associated with greater social participation.
CONCLUSIONS: There is no consistent evidence that exposing schoolchildren to 
part-time employment compromised subsequent health, well-being, and education in 
a developed country.

Copyright © 2014 Society for Adolescent Health and Medicine. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jadohealth.2014.03.018
PMID: 24861950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


796. Clin Neuropsychol. 2014;28(5):756-70. doi: 10.1080/13854046.2014.920922. Epub 
2014 May 27.

Are verbal intelligence subtests and reading measures immune to non-credible 
effort?

Sawyer RJ 2nd(1), Young JC, Roper BL, Rach A.

Author information:
(1)a Baltimore Veterans Affairs Medical Center , MD , USA.

The validity of neuropsychological testing is reliant on examinees putting forth 
adequate effort, yet it has been asserted that verbal subtests from the Wechsler 
Adult Intelligence Scales (WAIS) are insensitive to suboptimal effort in 
comparison to other commonly used neuropsychological measures. The current study 
examined performance differences on the entire WAIS-IV and WRAT-4 Reading, as 
well as the CVLT-II and several WMS-IV subtests, in 207 Veterans classified into 
Credible Effort (n = 146) and Non-credible Effort (n = 61) groups. Analyses 
revealed that the Non-credible Effort group performed significantly lower on all 
examined measures including verbal tests, with moderate to large effect sizes 
observed for most tests. Current findings thus indicate that WAIS-IV verbal 
subtests and reading ability measures, such as on the WRAT-4, are not 
insensitive to effects of non-credible effort. Consequently it is recommended 
that these tests not generally be used to estimate baseline intellectual 
functioning when found in the presence of non-credible effort. While there was 
broad performance suppression across all measures examined, results also showed 
a distinct continuum of test susceptibility with some measures being more or 
less sensitive to inadequate effort. Recommendations for future performance 
validity test development are presented.

DOI: 10.1080/13854046.2014.920922
PMID: 24862245 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


797. Psychiatry Res. 2014 Sep 30;219(1):86-91. doi: 10.1016/j.psychres.2014.04.055. 
Epub 2014 May 14.

Prospective memory predicts the level of community living skills in 
schizophrenia.

Au RW(1), Man D(2), Xiang YT(3), Shum D(4), Lee E(5), Ungvari GS(6), Tang WK(7).

Author information:
(1)Occupational Therapy Department, United Christian Hospital, Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region; Department of Psychiatry, The Chinese University of Hong 
Kong, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. Electronic address: 
raymondau@hotmail.com.
(2)Department of Rehabilitation Sciences, Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Hong 
Kong Special Administrative Region.
(3)Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Macau, Macau; Beijing Anding 
Hospital, Capital Medical University, Beijing, China.
(4)School of Applied Psychology and Griffith Health Institute, Griffith 
University, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region.
(6)University of Notre Dame Australia/Marian Centre, Perth, Australia; School of 
Psychiatry & Clinical Neurosciences, University of Western Australia, Perth, 
Australia.
(7)Department of Psychiatry, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong 
Special Administrative Region.

Schizophrenia patients are known to have prospective memory (PM) deficits. There 
is no robust evidence showing that PM deficits have a major impact on community 
living skills in schizophrenia. The aim of this study was to examine the 
association between PM and community living skills in schizophrenia. Forty-four 
individuals with schizophrenia formed the study sample. Participants׳ 
psychopathology, prospective and retrospective memory, level of intelligence, 
and community living skills were measured with standardized instruments. In 
bivariate analyses, community living skills overall but not self-care correlated 
with PM total and subscales scores. In multivariate analyses, event-based PM was 
more predictive than time-based PM of the level of community living skills. In 
conclusion, PM has a significant impact on community living skills in 
schizophrenia and attention should be paid to this type of memory disturbance in 
rehabilitation of schizophrenia.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2014.04.055
PMID: 24863867 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


798. Pediatrics. 2014 Jun;133(6):e1608-15. doi: 10.1542/peds.2013-3077.

Intellectual, behavioral, and emotional functioning in children with syndromic 
craniosynostosis.

Maliepaard M, Mathijssen IM, Oosterlaan J, Okkerse JM.

OBJECTIVES: To examine intellectual, behavioral, and emotional functioning of 
children who have syndromic craniosynostosis and to explore differences between 
diagnostic subgroups.
METHODS: A national sample of children who have syndromic craniosynostosis 
participated in this study. Intellectual, behavioral, and emotional outcomes 
were assessed by using standardized measures: Wechsler Intelligence Scale for 
Children, Third Edition, Child Behavior Checklist (CBCL)/6-18, Disruptive 
Behavior Disorder rating scale (DBD), and the National Institute of Mental 
Health Diagnostic Interview Schedule for Children.
RESULTS: We included 82 children (39 boys) aged 6 to 13 years who have syndromic 
craniosynostosis. Mean Full-Scale IQ (FSIQ) was in the normal range (M = 96.6; 
SD = 21.6). However, children who have syndromic craniosynostosis had a 1.9 
times higher risk for developing intellectual disability (FSIQ < 85) compared 
with the normative population (P < .001) and had more behavioral and emotional 
problems compared with the normative population, including higher scores on the 
CBCL/6-18, DBD Total Problems (P < .001), Internalizing (P < .01), social 
problems (P < .001), attention problems (P < .001), and the DBD Inattention (P < 
.001). Children who have Apert syndrome had lower FSIQs (M = 76.7; SD = 13.3) 
and children who have Muenke syndrome had more social problems (P < .01), 
attention problems (P < .05), and inattention problems (P < .01) than normative 
population and with other diagnostic subgroups.
CONCLUSIONS: Although children who have syndromic craniosynostosis have FSIQs 
similar to the normative population, they are at increased risk for developing 
intellectual disability, internalizing, social, and attention problems. Higher 
levels of behavioral and emotional problems were related to lower levels of 
intellectual functioning.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.2013-3077
PMID: 24864183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


799. Seishin Shinkeigaku Zasshi. 2014;116(4):323-31.

[Adverse events of psychotropic drugs].

[Article in Japanese]

Watanabe K, Kikuchi T.

The authors discuss adverse events which are often missed but clinicians should 
pay attention to in order to preserve patients'quality of life(QOL). Among mood 
stabilizers, lithium may cause a urinary volume increase, hyperparathyroidism, 
and serum calcium elevation; sodium valproate possibly increases androgenic 
hormone levels and the risk of polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) as well as 
hypothyroidism. Moreover, in addition to teratogenesis, it has been reported 
that fetal exposure to a higher dose of valproate is associated with a lower 
intelligence quotient and higher incidence of autism spectrum disorders in 
children. Antidepressants with a higher affinity for serotonin transporters 
might induce gastrointestinal bleeding, and some antidepressants cause sexual 
dysfunction more frequently than others. Activation syndrome is still a key side 
effect which should be noted. Regarding the adverse events of antipsychotics, 
subjective side effects unpleasant to patients such as dysphoria and a lower 
subjective well-being should not be overlooked. We clinicians have to cope with 
adverse events worsening the QOL of patients with psychiatric disorders and, 
therefore, we need to adopt appropriate counter-measures.

PMID: 24864567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


800. J Child Psychol Psychiatry. 2014 Dec;55(12):1380-9. doi: 10.1111/jcpp.12255. 
Epub 2014 May 28.

Dimensions of manic symptoms in youth: psychosocial impairment and cognitive 
performance in the IMAGEN sample.

Stringaris A(1), Castellanos-Ryan N, Banaschewski T, Barker GJ, Bokde AL, 
Bromberg U, Büchel C, Fauth-Bühler M, Flor H, Frouin V, Gallinat J, Garavan H, 
Gowland P, Heinz A, Itterman B, Lawrence C, Nees F, Paillere-Martinot ML, Paus 
T, Pausova Z, Rietschel M, Smolka MN, Schumann G, Goodman R, Conrod P; Imagen 
Consortium.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Psychiatry, King's College London, London, UK.

BACKGROUND: It has been reported that mania may be associated with superior 
cognitive performance. In this study, we test the hypothesis that manic symptoms 
in youth separate along two correlated dimensions and that a symptom 
constellation of high energy and cheerfulness is associated with superior 
cognitive performance.
METHOD: We studied 1755 participants of the IMAGEN study, of average age 
14.4 years (SD = 0.43), 50.7% girls. Manic symptoms were assessed using the 
Development and Wellbeing Assessment by interviewing parents and young people. 
Cognition was assessed using the Wechsler Intelligence Scale For Children 
(WISC-IV) and a response inhibition task.
RESULTS: Manic symptoms in youth formed two correlated dimensions: one termed 
exuberance, characterized by high energy and cheerfulness and one of 
undercontrol with distractibility, irritability and risk-taking behavior. Only 
the undercontrol, but not the exuberant dimension, was independently associated 
with measures of psychosocial impairment. In multivariate regression models, the 
exuberant, but not the undercontrolled, dimension was positively and 
significantly associated with verbal IQ by both parent- and self-report; 
conversely, the undercontrolled, but not the exuberant, dimension was associated 
with poor performance in a response inhibition task.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that manic symptoms in youth may form 
dimensions with distinct correlates. The results are in keeping with previous 
findings about superior performance associated with mania. Further research is 
required to study etiological differences between these symptom dimensions and 
their implications for clinical practice.

© 2014 The Authors. Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry published by John 
Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Association for Child and Adolescent Mental 
Health.

DOI: 10.1111/jcpp.12255
PMCID: PMC4167034
PMID: 24865127 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


801. Ophthalmic Genet. 2014 Sep;35(3):162-9. doi: 10.3109/13816810.2014.921317. Epub 
2014 May 27.

Microdeletions involving chromosomes 12 and 22 associated with syndromic Duane 
retraction syndrome.

Abu-Amero KK(1), Kondkar AA, Oystreck DT, Khan AO, Bosley TM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, College of Medicine, King Saud University , 
Riyadh , Saudi Arabia .

BACKGROUND: Duane retraction syndrome (DRS) is the most common of the congenital 
cranial dysinnervation disorders (CCDDs). CCDDs can be monogenic or chromosomal 
in origin. Identification of the genetic cause(s) in patients and families with 
DRS facilitates definitive diagnosis and provides insights into these 
developmental errors.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This study described a young girl with DRS on the left 
and several additional developmental abnormalities. Clinical examination 
including neuroimaging, sequencing of candidate genes associated with DRS, and 
array comparative genomic hybridization (array CGH) were performed.
RESULTS: The proband had unilateral DRS type 3 on the left with somewhat low-set 
ears, mild motor delay with normal intelligence, and an asymmetric neck without 
a palpable right sternocleidomastoid muscle. Spine X-rays revealed a 
Klippel-Feil syndrome (KFS) and an MRI showed a webbed neck. She also had spina 
bifida at C8-T1 and a submucosal cleft palate. The parents of the proband were 
related with no other family member affected similarly. Sequencing of SALL4, 
CHN1, HOXA1, and TUBB3 did not show any mutation. Array CGH revealed de novo 
deletions of 21 Kb on chromosome 12q24.31 and 11 Kb on chromosome 22q13.31, each 
encompassing only one gene, ring finger protein 34, E3 ubiquitin protein ligase 
(RNF34) and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARA) 
respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: This patient presents an unusual phenotype associated with a unique 
combination of two chromosomal microdeletions.

DOI: 10.3109/13816810.2014.921317
PMID: 24865192 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


802. Qual Prim Care. 2014;22(3):139-46.

Immunisation errors reported to a vaccine advice service: intelligence to 
improve practice.

Lang S(1), Ford KJ(2), John T(2), Pollard AJ(3), McCarthy ND(4).

Author information:
(1)Thames Valley Public Health England Centre, Chilton, Didcot OX11 0RQ, UK. 
sarah.lang@phe.gov.uk.
(2)Thames Valley Public Health England Centre, Didcot, UK; Oxford Vaccine Group, 
Department of Paediatrics, University of Oxford and the NIHR Oxford Biomedical 
Research Centre, Oxford, UK.
(3)Department of Paediatrics, University of Oxford, UK.
(4)Thames Valley Public Health England Centre, Didcot, UK.

BACKGROUND: The success of immunisation programmes depends on the quality with 
which they are administered. The Vaccine Advice for CliniCians Service 
(VACCSline) is an advice service to support immunisers and promote excellence in 
immunisation practice, through specialist guidance and local education, covering 
a catchment population of two million people. All enquiries are recorded onto a 
database and categorised. Vaccine error is selected when a vaccine has not been 
prepared or administered according to national recommendations or relevant 
expert guidance.
METHOD: All enquiries from 2009 to 2011, categorised on the VACCSline database 
as 'vaccine error' were analysed and subjected to a detailed free-text review.
RESULTS: Of 4301 enquiries, 158 (3.7%) concerned vaccine errors. The greatest 
frequency of errors, 145 (92.9%) concerned immunisations delivered in primary 
care services; 92% of all errors occurred during either vaccine selection and 
preparation or history checking and scheduling. Administration of the wrong 
vaccine was the most frequent error recorded in 33.3% of reports. A shared first 
letter of the vaccine name was noted to occur in 13 error reports in which the 
incorrect vaccine was inadvertently administered. Consultations involving pairs 
of siblings were associated with various errors in seven enquiries. Failure to 
revaccinate after spillage (seven reports) showed a widespread knowledge gap in 
this area.
CONCLUSION: Advice line enquiries provide intelligence to alert immunisers to 
the errors that are commonly reported and may serve to highlight processes that 
predispose to errors, thus informing immuniser training and updating.

PMID: 24865341 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


803. Am J Primatol. 2014 Dec;76(12):1185-95. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22303. Epub 2014 May 
27.

Ecological factors predictive of wild spider monkey (Ateles belzebuth) foraging 
decisions in Yasuní, Ecuador.

Suarez SA(1).

Author information:
(1)Anthropology Department, Miami University, Oxford, OH.

Because fruiting trees are uncommon in tropical forests, frugivorous primates 
experience selective pressure to incorporate knowledge of where to find feeding 
trees, what to expect when they arrive there, and when they can return after 
depleting a tree. I investigated these abilities in wild spider monkeys (Ateles 
belzebuth) in Yasuní, Ecuador, by analyzing the characteristics of feeding trees 
that drive foraging decisions. Foraging data were derived from four 2-week 
follows of focal adult females, conducted between May and December 1999, during 
which I measured and mapped all trees in which the focal subject fed, feeding 
bout duration, and the number of conspecifics feeding simultaneously with the 
focal. Taking into account the order in which feeding trees were visited across 
each follow, I analyzed each foraging decision from the second week of a follow, 
treating all previously visited trees as options for visits. I scored each 
option tree in terms of nine ecological variables, including the distance from 
the decision to each location tree, DBH, recent feeding time and mean feeding 
times for the focal and other monkeys present, and the interval in hours between 
the foraging decision and the most recent visit to each option tree. I then 
examined the predictive strength of the model using logistic regression 
analysis, comparing characteristics of selected trees to those not selected. The 
overall model successfully predicted trees selected by focal monkeys (r(2) 
 = 0.27). Monkeys preferentially moved to nearby, large canopy trees, in which 
previous feeding success was high, and which were visited after an interval of 
3.5 days. Interval mattered most for medium and large trees, but did not predict 
selection for trees <10 cm DBH. Despite the large home range and large numbers 
of trees, Yasuní spider monkeys appeared to integrate spatial, value, and 
temporal information when deciding where to feed.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22303
PMID: 24865445 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


804. Perspect Med Educ. 2014 Jun;3(3):233-237. doi: 10.1007/s40037-014-0119-y.

Help wanted: developing clinician leaders.

Stoller JK(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Education Institute - NA22, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, 9500 Euclid Avenue, 
Cleveland, OH, 44195, USA. stollej@ccf.org.
(2)Jean Wall Bennett Professor of Medicine, Samson Global Leadership Academy 
Endowed Chair, Cleveland Clinic Lerner College, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH, 
USA. stollej@ccf.org.

Because healthcare faces challenges, such as ensuring quality and access and 
controlling cost, effective leadership is needed at every level of healthcare 
organizations. Yet, physicians are trained in clinical and scientific skills but 
not in leadership competencies. Furthermore, clinicians often feel ill-prepared 
to assume managerial and leadership roles. To close this gap, training in 
leadership competencies, such as emotional intelligence, communication, 
teamwork, and change management, is urgently needed for physicians and 
clinicians of all disciplines. Leadership training should be multidisciplinary 
and should begin early in clinicians' careers.

DOI: 10.1007/s40037-014-0119-y
PMCID: PMC4078054
PMID: 24865886


805. Am J Med Genet C Semin Med Genet. 2014 Jun;166C(2):184-97. doi: 
10.1002/ajmg.c.31405. Epub 2014 May 27.

Agenesis of the corpus callosum: a clinical approach to diagnosis.

Palmer EE, Mowat D.

This review article aims to guide the clinician in establishing a diagnosis in 
patients with agenesis of the corpus callosum (ACC), presenting antenatally or 
postnatally. ACC may be isolated, or occur in association with other 
neuroanatomical lesions and/or congenital anomalies, and has many different 
genetic causes. Neuropsychological outcome varies considerably from normal to 
profound intellectual disability depending on the etiology. Approximately 25% of 
individuals with antenatally diagnosed apparently isolated ACC have intellectual 
disability. Subtle neurological, social, and learning deficits may still occur 
in those with normal intelligence and longitudinal neurocognitive follow-up is 
recommended for all children with ACC. The finding of ACC should prompt detailed 
clinical assessment in order to determine and manage the underlying condition. 
It is recognized that genetic factors contribute to ACC in the vast majority of 
cases. Less commonly ACC can result from antenatal infections, vascular or toxic 
insults, and it is increasingly recognized that ACC, particularly isolated ACC, 
may be due to an interaction of a number of "modifier" genetic and environmental 
factors. There are a large number of genetic conditions in which ACC may be a 
feature. We suggest a diagnostic algorithm to help guide the clinician towards 
diagnosis, to provide outcome advice and to aid in genetic counseling.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.c.31405
PMID: 24866859 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


806. J Int Neuropsychol Soc. 2014 May;20(5):547-54. doi: 10.1017/S1355617714000290.

Assessing metacognition during a cognitive task: impact of "on-line" 
metacognitive questions on neuropsychological performances in a non-clinical 
sample.

Quiles C(1), Verdoux H(1), Prouteau A(1).

Author information:
(1)1Université de Bordeaux,F-33000 Bordeaux,France.

Whereas metacognition is of great interest for neuropsychological practice, 
little is known about the impact of metacognitive questions during a 
neuropsychological assessment. This study explored the impact of measuring 
"on-line" metacognitive processes on neuropsychological performances in a 
non-clinical population. Participants were randomly assigned to a "standard" or 
a "metacognitive" neuropsychological test procedure. The "standard" procedure 
assessed executive functions (Modified Card Sorting Test), episodic memory 
("Rappel libre Rappel indicé" 16), working memory (digit span test Wechsler 
Adult Intelligence Scale III) and social cognition (Faces Test). In the 
"metacognitive" procedure, two questions were added after each item of these 
tests to evaluate "on-line" metacognitive monitoring and control. Working memory 
performances were better and episodic memory performances lower in the 
"metacognitive" versus the "standard" procedure. No significant difference was 
found concerning executive functioning or social cognition. The assessment of 
"on-line" metacognition might improve working memory performances by enhancing 
concentration, and might impair episodic memory performances by acting as a 
distractor. These findings may have implications for the development of 
cognitive remediation programs.

DOI: 10.1017/S1355617714000290
PMID: 24867441 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


807. Eur Child Adolesc Psychiatry. 2015 Jan;24(1):5-19. doi: 
10.1007/s00787-014-0559-2. Epub 2014 May 29.

A meta-analysis of cognitive functions in children and adolescents with major 
depressive disorder.

Wagner S(1), Müller C, Helmreich I, Huss M, Tadić A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University Medical Centre Mainz, 
Untere Zahlbacher Str. 8, Mainz, Germany, stefwagn@uni-mainz.de.

The cumulative prevalence rates of major depressive disorders (MDD) in children 
and adolescents averages 9.5 %. The majority of adults with MDD suffer from 
significant cognitive deficits, but the available neuropsychological data on the 
cognitive performance of children and adolescents with MDD yielded mixed 
results. Meta-analytic methods were used to assess the severity of cognitive 
deficits in children and adolescents with MDD as compared to healthy children 
and adolescents. We identified 17 studies comparing the intelligence, executive 
functions, verbal memory and attention of 447 patients with DSM-IV MDD and 1,347 
healthy children and adolescents. Children and adolescents with MDD performed 
0.194-0.772 (p < 0.001) standard mean differences worse than healthy control 
subjects in neuropsychological test procedures. The most pronounced deficits of 
children and adolescents with MDD were seen in inhibition capacity (STD = 0.772; 
p = 0.002), phonemic verbal fluency (STD = 0.756; p = 0.0001), sustained 
attention (STD = 0.522; p = 0.000), verbal memory (STD = 0.516; p = 0.0009) and 
planning (STD = 0.513; p = 0.014). We revealed cognitive deficits of children 
and adolescents with MDD in various cognitive domains. Long-term studies should 
investigate how the cognitive deficits of depressed youth affect their academic 
and social functioning, and whether age, comorbidity and depression severity 
play a role in this process.

DOI: 10.1007/s00787-014-0559-2
PMID: 24869711 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


808. Environ Health Perspect. 2014 Aug;122(8):856-62. doi: 10.1289/ehp.1307562. Epub 
2014 May 28.

Prenatal polybrominated diphenyl ether exposures and neurodevelopment in U.S. 
children through 5 years of age: the HOME study.

Chen A(1), Yolton K, Rauch SA, Webster GM, Hornung R, Sjödin A, Dietrich KN, 
Lanphear BP.

Author information:
(1)Division of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Department of Environmental 
Health, University of Cincinnati College of Medicine, Cincinnati, Ohio, USA.

Comment in
    Environ Health Perspect. 2014 Aug;122(8):A221.

BACKGROUND: Polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) are persistent chemicals that 
have been widely used as flame retardants in furniture, carpet padding, car 
seats, and other consumer products during the past three decades.
OBJECTIVE: We examined whether in utero exposure to PBDEs is associated with 
child cognitive function and behavior in a U.S. study sample.
METHODS: In a prospective birth cohort, we measured maternal serum 
concentrations of BDE-47 and other PBDE congeners in 309 women at 16 weeks of 
gestation during 2003-2006 and followed their children in Cincinnati, Ohio. We 
measured cognitive and motor abilities using the Bayley Scales of Infant 
Development-II at ages 1, 2, and 3 years; intelligence using the Wechsler 
Preschool and Primary Scale of Intelligence-III at age 5 years; and children's 
behaviors using the Behavioral Assessment System for Children-2 annually at ages 
2-5 years. We used linear mixed models or generalized estimating equations with 
adjustment for potential confounders to estimate associations between these 
outcomes and log10-transformed PBDE concentrations.
RESULTS: The geometric mean of BDE-47 in maternal serum (20.1 ng/g lipid) was 
comparable with U.S. adult national reference values. Prenatal BDE-47 was not 
significantly associated with Bayley Mental or Psychomotor Development Indices 
at 1-3 years, but a 10-fold increase in prenatal BDE-47 was associated with a 
4.5-point decrease (95% CI: -8.8, -0.1) in Full-Scale IQ and a 3.3-point 
increase (95% CI: 0.3, 6.3) in the hyperactivity score at age 5 years.
CONCLUSIONS: Prenatal exposure to PBDEs was associated with lower IQ and higher 
hyperactivity scores in children.

DOI: 10.1289/ehp.1307562
PMCID: PMC4123029
PMID: 24870060 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The findings and conclusions in this report are 
those of the authors and do not necessarily represent the official position of 
the NIEHS or the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The authors declare 
they have no actual or potential competing financial interests.


809. Neurol Med Chir (Tokyo). 2014;54(7):529-36. doi: 10.2176/nmc.oa.2013-0364. Epub 
2014 May 29.

Impact of bilateral subthalamic stimulation on motor/cognitive functions in 
Parkinson's disease.

Asahi T(1), Nakamichi N, Takaiwa A, Kashiwazaki D, Koh M, Dougu N, Takashima S, 
Tanaka K, Kuroda S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Toyama University Hospital.

It is still unclear whether deep brain stimulation targeted to the bilateral 
subthalamic nucleus (STN-DBS) affects cognitive function in Parkinson's disease 
(PD). This prospective study was aimed to systemically evaluate the impact of 
bilateral STN-DBS on motor and cognitive functions in patients with PD. This 
study included totally 11 Japanese patients with medically intolerant PD. 
Neurological and cognitive status was precisely evaluated before and 1 year 
after bilateral STN-DBS, using unified Parkinson's disease rating scale (UPDRS), 
levodopa equivalent doses, mini-mental state examination (MMSE), Japanese adult 
reading test (JART), repeatable battery for the assessment of neuropsychological 
status (RBANS), and Wechsler adult intelligence scale-revised (WAIS-R). 
Preoperative RBANS and WAIS-R identified cognitive dysfunction that could not be 
detected by MMSE and JART. Before surgery, PD patients had significantly 
impaired immediate memory and attention. Motor function significantly improved 1 
year after bilateral STN-DBS. Bilateral STN-DBS did not affect any score on 
cognitive examinations. However, postoperative improvements of total score on 
RBANS and performance intelligence quotient (PIQ) scores on WAIS-R were closely 
related to those of UPDRS part III off (R(2) = 0.61, P < 0.01; R(2) = 0.39, P < 
0.05, respectively). These findings strongly suggest that bilateral STN-DBS may 
significantly improve cognitive function in a certain subgroup of patients whose 
therapeutic effects on motor function are prominent.

DOI: 10.2176/nmc.oa.2013-0364
PMCID: PMC4533462
PMID: 24872253 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest Disclosure None. Takashi 
Asahi and Naomi Nakamichi equally contributed to this manuscript.


810. Healthc Inform Res. 2014 Apr;20(2):125-34. doi: 10.4258/hir.2014.20.2.125. Epub 
2014 Apr 30.

Prediction Model for Health-Related Quality of Life of Elderly with Chronic 
Diseases using Machine Learning Techniques.

Lee SK(1), Son YJ(2), Kim J(3), Kim HG(4), Lee JI(5), Kang BY(6), Cho HS(7), Lee 
S(4).

Author information:
(1)College of Nursing, Keimyung University, Daegu, Korea.
(2)Department of Nursing, Soonchunhyang University, Cheonan, Korea.
(3)College of Nursing, Seoul National University, Seoul, Korea.
(4)Biomedical Knowledge Engineering Lab., Seoul National University, Seoul, 
Korea.
(5)School of Dentistry, Seoul National University, Seoul, Korea.
(6)School of Mechanical Engineering, Kyungpook National University, Daegu, 
Korea.
(7)Electronics and Telecommunications Research Institute, Daejeon, Korea.

OBJECTIVES: The purposes of this study were to identify the factors that affect 
the health-related quality of life (HRQoL) of the elderly with chronic diseases 
and to subsequently develop from such factors a prediction model to help 
identify HRQoL risk groups that require intervention.
METHODS: We analyzed a set of secondary data regarding 716 individuals extracted 
from the Korea National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey from 2008 to 
2010. The statistical package of SPSS and MATLAB were used for data analysis and 
development of the prediction model. The algorithms used in the study were the 
following: stepwise logistic regression (SLR) analysis and machine learning (ML) 
techniques, such as decision tree, random forest, and support vector machine 
methods.
RESULTS: FIVE FACTORS WITH STATISTICAL SIGNIFICANCE WERE IDENTIFIED FOR HRQOL IN 
THE ELDERLY WITH CHRONIC DISEASES: 'monthly income', 'diagnosis of chronic 
disease', 'depression', 'discomfort', and 'perceived health status.' The SLR 
analysis showed the best performance with accuracy = 0.93 and F-score = 0.49. 
The results of this study provide essential materials that will help formulate 
personalized health management strategies and develop interventions programs 
towards the improvement of the HRQoL for elderly people with chronic diseases.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study is, to our best knowledge, the first attempt to identify 
the influencing factors and to apply prediction models for the HRQoL of the 
elderly with chronic diseases by using ML techniques as an alternative and 
complement to the traditional statistical approaches.

DOI: 10.4258/hir.2014.20.2.125
PMCID: PMC4030056
PMID: 24872911

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest relevant to 
this article was reported.


811. J Med Pract Manage. 2014 Mar-Apr;29(5):327-30.

Leveraging business intelligence to make better decisions: Part I.

Reimers M.

Data is the new currency. Business intelligence tools will provide better 
performing practices with a competitive intelligence advantage that will 
separate the high performers from the rest of the pack. Given the investments of 
time and money into our data systems, practice leaders must work to take every 
advantage and look at the datasets as a potential goldmine of business 
intelligence decision tools. A fresh look at decision tools created from 
practice data will create efficiencies and improve effectiveness for end-users 
and managers.

PMID: 24873133 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


812. J Clin Exp Neuropsychol. 2014;36(6):588-95. doi: 10.1080/13803395.2014.918091. 
Epub 2014 May 30.

A mediation model to explain decision making under conditions of risk among 
adolescents: the role of fluid intelligence and probabilistic reasoning.

Donati MA(1), Panno A, Chiesi F, Primi C.

Author information:
(1)a Department of Neuroscience, Psychology, Drug, and Child's Health 
(NEUROFARBA), Section of Psychology , University of Florence , Florence , Italy.

AIM: This study tested the mediating role of probabilistic reasoning ability in 
the relationship between fluid intelligence and advantageous decision making 
among adolescents in explicit situations of risk--that is, in contexts in which 
information on the choice options (gains, losses, and probabilities) were 
explicitly presented at the beginning of the task.
METHOD: Participants were 282 adolescents attending high school (77% males, mean 
age = 17.3 years). We first measured fluid intelligence and probabilistic 
reasoning ability. Then, to measure decision making under explicit conditions of 
risk, participants performed the Game of Dice Task, in which they have to decide 
among different alternatives that are explicitly linked to a specific amount of 
gain or loss and have obvious winning probabilities that are stable over time.
RESULTS: Analyses showed a significant positive indirect effect of fluid 
intelligence on advantageous decision making through probabilistic reasoning 
ability that acted as a mediator. Specifically, fluid intelligence may enhance 
ability to reason in probabilistic terms, which in turn increases the likelihood 
of advantageous choices when adolescents are confronted with an explicit 
decisional context.
CONCLUSIONS: Findings show that in experimental paradigm settings, adolescents 
are able to make advantageous decisions using cognitive abilities when faced 
with decisions under explicit risky conditions. This study suggests that 
interventions designed to promote probabilistic reasoning, for example by 
incrementing the mathematical prerequisites necessary to reason in probabilistic 
terms, may have a positive effect on adolescents' decision-making abilities.

DOI: 10.1080/13803395.2014.918091
PMID: 24873900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


813. Nurse Educ Today. 2014 Dec;34(12):1450-4. doi: 10.1016/j.nedt.2014.04.023. Epub 
2014 May 14.

Developing and piloting the multiple mini-interview in pre-registration student 
midwife selection in a UK setting.

Callwood A(1), Cooke D(2), Allan H(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Social Care, University of Surrey, United Kingdom. 
Electronic address: a.callwood@surrey.ac.uk.
(2)School of Health and Social Care, University of Surrey, United Kingdom.
(3)School of Health and Education, Middlesex University, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: Published research has demonstrated that the multiple mini-interview 
(MMI) is a reliable assessment instrument in medical and nursing student 
selection. There is a dearth of evidence specifically relating to the 
advancement and subsequent evaluation of MMIs in the context of student midwife 
selection.
OBJECTIVES: To develop, pilot and examine the reliability of MMIs in 
pre-registration student midwife selection in a UK setting.
DESIGN AND SETTING: DeVellis' framework for questionnaire development 
underpinned the generation of MMI scenarios. BSc (Hons) Midwifery Studies 
students at a Higher Education Institution in the UK volunteered to participate 
in 'mock' MMI circuits during the first week of their programme.
RESULTS: An eight station model was piloted. Communication skills were rated at 
each station as a generic attribute. Station specific attributes assessed 
included: compassion and empathy; respect for difference and diversity; honesty 
and integrity; intellectual curiosity and reflective nature; advocacy; respect 
for privacy and dignity; team working and initiative; the role of the midwife 
and motivation to become a midwife. Participants' responses to scenario 
questions were rated on a 7 point scale. Cronbach's alpha scores measuring 
internal consistency ranged from 0.91 to 0.97 CONCLUSION: The systematic 
development of the MMI model and scenarios resulted in 'excellent' reliability 
across all stations. These findings endorse the MMI technique as a reliable 
alternative to the personal interview in informing final decisions in 
pre-registration student midwife selection.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nedt.2014.04.023
PMID: 24874073 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


814. Rep Prog Phys. 2014 Jun;77(6):062001. doi: 10.1088/0034-4885/77/6/062001. Epub 
2014 May 29.

Physics and financial economics (1776-2014): puzzles, Ising and agent-based 
models.

Sornette D(1).

Author information:
(1)ETH Zurich-Department of Management, Technology and Economics, 
Scheuchzerstrasse 7, CH-8092 Zurich, Switzerland. Swiss Finance Institute, 40, 
Boulevard du Pont-d' Arve, Case Postale 3, 1211 Geneva 4, Switzerland.

This short review presents a selected history of the mutual fertilization 
between physics and economics--from Isaac Newton and Adam Smith to the present. 
The fundamentally different perspectives embraced in theories developed in 
financial economics compared with physics are dissected with the examples of the 
volatility smile and of the excess volatility puzzle. The role of the Ising 
model of phase transitions to model social and financial systems is reviewed, 
with the concepts of random utilities and the logit model as the analog of the 
Boltzmann factor in statistical physics. Recent extensions in terms of quantum 
decision theory are also covered. A wealth of models are discussed briefly that 
build on the Ising model and generalize it to account for the many stylized 
facts of financial markets. A summary of the relevance of the Ising model and 
its extensions is provided to account for financial bubbles and crashes. The 
review would be incomplete if it did not cover the dynamical field of 
agent-based models (ABMs), also known as computational economic models, of which 
the Ising-type models are just special ABM implementations. We formulate the 
'Emerging Intelligence Market Hypothesis' to reconcile the pervasive presence of 
'noise traders' with the near efficiency of financial markets. Finally, we note 
that evolutionary biology, more than physics, is now playing a growing role to 
inspire models of financial markets.

DOI: 10.1088/0034-4885/77/6/062001
PMID: 24875470


815. Biomed Res Int. 2014;2014:129796. doi: 10.1155/2014/129796. Epub 2014 Apr 29.

Predictors of memory and processing speed dysfunctions after traumatic brain 
injury.

Winardi W(1), Kwan AL(2), Wang TL(3), Su YF(4), Yen CP(5), Tsai HP(6), Sheehan 
J(7), Su CY(8).

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, Poznan University, 61-701 Poznan, Poland.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, University of Virginia Health System, 
Charlottesville, VA 22908, USA ; Department of Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, 
College of Medicine, Kaohsiung Medical University, Kaohsiung City 807, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Neurosurgery, Kaohsiung Medical University Hospital, Kaohsiung 
City 807, Taiwan.
(4)Department of Neurosurgery, University of Virginia Health System, 
Charlottesville, VA 22908, USA ; Department of Neurosurgery, Kaohsiung Medical 
University Hospital, Kaohsiung City 807, Taiwan.
(5)Department of Neurosurgery, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA 
22908, USA.
(6)College of Medicine, Kaohsiung Medical University Hospital, Kaohsiung City 
807, Taiwan.
(7)Department of Neurosurgery, University of Virginia Health System, 
Charlottesville, VA 22908, USA.
(8)Department of Occupational Therapy, College of Health Sciences, Kaohsiung 
Medical University, Kaohsiung City 807, Taiwan.

BACKGROUND: The aims of this study were to evaluate the predictive value of 
admission Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) scores, duration of unconsciousness, 
neurosurgical intervention, and countercoup lesion on the impairment of memory 
and processing speed functions six months after a traumatic brain injury (TBI) 
based on a structural equation modeling.
METHODS: Thirty TBI patients recruited from Neurosurgical Department at the 
Kaohsiung Medical University Hospital were administered the Wechsler Memory 
Scale-III (WMS-III) and the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-III processing 
speed index to evaluate the memory and processing speed functions.
RESULTS: The study showed that GCS scores accounted for 40% of the variance in 
memory/processing speed. No significant predictive effects were found for the 
other three variables. GCS classification at the time of TBI seems to correspond 
moderately to the severity of memory/processing speed dysfunctions.
CONCLUSIONS: The present study demonstrated that admission GCS score is a robust 
predictor of memory/processing speed dysfunctions after TBI. The results should 
be replicated with a large sample of patients with TBI, or be extended by 
examining other potential clinical predictors.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/129796
PMCID: PMC4022287
PMID: 24877054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


816. AIDS Care. 2014;26(11):1327-35. doi: 10.1080/09540121.2014.920949. Epub 2014 May 
30.

Neurodevelopmental outcomes in HIV-exposed-uninfected children versus those not 
exposed to HIV.

Kerr SJ(1), Puthanakit T, Vibol U, Aurpibul L, Vonthanak S, Kosalaraksa P, 
Kanjanavanit S, Hansudewechakul R, Wongsawat J, Luesomboon W, Ratanadilok K, 
Prasitsuebsai W, Pruksakaew K, van der Lugt J, Paul R, Ananworanich J, Valcour 
V; SEARCH 012 Study Team.

Collaborators: Ananworanich J, Puthanakit T, Bunupradah T, Kerr S, Ubolyam S, 
Laopraynak N, Suwanlerk T, Prusakaew K, Ratanadilok K, Pothipala V, Nanthapisal 
K, Valcour V, Catella S, Desai A, Wendelken-Riegelhaupt L, Busovaca E, Phanuphak 
P, Cooper DA, Kaldor J, Vun MC, Vonthanak S, Ruxrungtham K, Giaquinto C, Cotton 
M, Lolekha R, Sirisanthana V, Chokephaibulkit K, Suntarattiwong P, Volberding P, 
Bangdiwala S, Lim K, David NM, Solomon S, Suwangool P, Wang R, Zhang F, Zoloth 
L, Dixon DO, Fox L, Ojumu AO, Bupp JE, Ussery M, Wetherall NT, Brouwers P, 
Mofenson LM, Douoguih M, Petrakova E, Law M, Shearer WT, Valcour V, Paul R, 
Pattanapanyasat K, Sakulploy N, McNicholl JM, Saisaengjan C, Rattanadilok K, 
Ruxrungtham K, Ananworanich J, Puthanakit T, Pancharoen C, Bunupuradah T, van 
der Lugt J, Prasitsuebsai W, Kerr S, Chuenyam T, Ubolyam S, Mahanontharit A, 
Suwanlerk T, Intasan J, Jupimai T, Hirunyanulux T, Pinklow P, Pruksakaew K, 
Butterworth O, Sriheara C, Uanithirat A, Posyauattanakul S, Prungsin T, Boonrak 
P, Sakornjun W, Apornpong T, Sophonphan J, Ritim O, Noumtong N, Hirunwadee N, 
Phadungphon C, Thongsee W, Chaiya O, Suwannawat A, Sattong T, Wongthai N, 
Nantapisan K, Methanggool U, Suebsri N, Panpuy T, Jootakarn P, Santikul K, 
Niyomlaksakul A, Phasomsup C, Wongsawat J, Sunthornkachit R, Moolasart V, 
Siripongpreeda N, Thongyen S, Chathaisong P, Prommool V, Suwannamass D, 
Waradejwinyoo S, Boonyarittipat N, Chiewcharn T, Likanonsakul S, Athichathana C, 
Eampokalap B, Sanchiem W, Pantoe J, Prashyanusorn P, Kaen K, Kosalaraksa P, 
Lumbiganon P, Engchanil C, Tharnprisan P, Sopharak C, Lulitanond V, Khahmahpahte 
S, Kaewmart R, Chaimanee P, Sala M, Udompanit T, Wisai R, Rattanamanee S, 
Chantarasuk Y, Sarvok S, Changtrakun Y, Kunhasura S, Kamollert S, Singkhornard 
J, Unprai P, Udomsri C, Luesomboon W, Eiamapichart P, Jadwattanakul T, 
Limpet-ngam I, Naraporn D, Mathajittiphun P, Sirimaskul C, Klaihong W, Sittisak 
P, Wongwian T, Charoenthammachoke K, Yodpo P, Mai C, Kanjanavanit S, 
Ananthanavanich M, Sornchai P, Namwong T, Chutima D, Tangmankhongworakun S, 
Yingyong P, Kasinrerk J, Raksasang M, Kongdong P, Khampangkome S, Ngao ST, 
Paengta S, Junsom K, Khuankaew R, Moolsombat P, Khuttiwung D, Chanrin C, 
Wongwerapan M, Pansakul W, Hansudewechakul R, Jariyapongpaiboon Y, Chanta C, 
Khonponoi A, Yodsuwan C, Srisuk W, Ussawawuthipong P, Thaweesombat Y, Tongsuk P, 
Kumluang C, Jinasen R, Maneerat N, Surapanichadul K, Donkaew P, Thanapaisan A, 
Sririindharatorn P, Hanpa A, Vonthanak S, Vibol U, Sophan S, Boren P, Chettra K, 
Phary L, Roeun T, Sunly T, Chandara M, Sokheng C, Sokoeun K, Sotharin T, 
Vonthanak S, Vibol U, Bun V, ChhayMeng S, Chettra K, Phan S, vong WI, Dyna K, 
Ngampiyaskul C, Srisawat N, Chamjamrat W, Wattanayothin S, Prasertphan P, 
Wongcheeree T, Greetanukroh P, Imubumroong C, Teirsonsern P, Khantilapapan N, 
Deenarn P, Charoenvikkai B.

Author information:
(1)a HIV-NAT , The Thai Red Cross AIDS Research Centre , Bangkok , Thailand.

Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-negative children born to HIV-infected 
mothers may exhibit differences in neurodevelopment (ND) compared to age- and 
gender-matched controls whose lives have not been affected by HIV. This could 
occur due to exposure to HIV and antiretroviral agents in utero and perinatally, 
or differences in the environment in which they grow up. This study assessed 
neurodevelopmental outcomes in HIV-exposed uninfected (HEU) and HIV-unexposed 
uninfected (HUU) children enrolled as controls in a multicenter ND study from 
Thailand and Cambodia. One hundred sixty HEU and 167 HUU children completed a 
neurodevelopmental assessment using the Beery Visual Motor Integration (VMI) 
test, Color Trails, Perdue Pegboard, and Child Behavior Checklist (CBCL). Thai 
children (n = 202) also completed the Wechsler Intelligence Scale (IQ) and 
Stanford-Binet II memory tests. In analyses adjusted for caregiver education, 
parent as caregiver, household income, age, and ethnicity, statistically 
significant lower scores were seen on verbal IQ (VIQ), full-scale IQ (FSIQ), and 
Binet Bead Memory among HEU compared to HUU. The mean (95% CI) differences were 
-6.13 (-10.3 to -1.96), p = 0.004; -4.57 (-8.80 to -0.35), p = 0.03; and -3.72 
(-6.57 to -0.88), p = 0.01 for VIQ, FSIQ, and Binet Bead Memory, respectively. 
We observed no significant differences in performance IQ, other Binet memory 
domains, Color Trail, Perdue Pegboard, Beery VMI, or CBCL test scores. We 
conclude that HEU children evidence reductions in some neurodevelopmental 
outcomes compared to HUU; however, these differences are small and it remains 
unclear to what extent they have immediate and long-term clinical significance.

DOI: 10.1080/09540121.2014.920949
PMCID: PMC4122621
PMID: 24878112 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


817. J Neurol Sci. 2014 Aug 15;343(1-2):176-9. doi: 10.1016/j.jns.2014.05.005. Epub 
2014 May 14.

Underestimation of cognitive impairments by the Montreal Cognitive Assessment 
(MoCA) in an acute stroke unit population.

Chan E(1), Khan S(2), Oliver R(2), Gill SK(3), Werring DJ(4), Cipolotti L(2).

Author information:
(1)National Hospital for Neurology and Neurosurgery, London, UK. Electronic 
address: edgar.chan@uclh.nhs.uk.
(2)National Hospital for Neurology and Neurosurgery, London, UK.
(3)University College London Hospital, London, UK.
(4)UCL Institute of Neurology, Stroke Research Group, London, UK.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: The Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) is an 
increasingly popular clinical screening tool for detecting cognitive impairment 
in stroke, but few studies have directly compared performance on the MoCA with 
neuropsychological assessment. Our retrospective study examined the extent to 
which intact performance on the MoCA reflects intact cognition as determined by 
neuropsychological assessment.
METHODS: In this retrospective study, cognitive profiles for 136 acute stroke 
patients admitted to the Acute Stroke Unit who had available MoCA and 
neuropsychological assessment data were examined.
RESULTS: 22% of our patients were deemed cognitively intact on the MoCA. Of 
these, 78% were found to be impaired (≤ 5%ile) on neuropsychological assessment 
in one or more cognitive domains. The most common impairments were in general 
intelligence, information processing speed and visual memory; three areas not 
assessed by the MoCA. In addition, a high proportion (up to 59%) of patients who 
scored the maximum points in one of the MoCA-specified domains were impaired on 
comparable neuropsychological assessment.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that although the MoCA may be a useful 
screening tool post-stroke in detecting gross impairments, neuropsychological 
assessment is still necessary for a comprehensive and reliable detection of 
domain-specific cognitive deficits, which can more reliably inform us for 
realistic goal setting and vocational advice vital for effective rehabilitation.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jns.2014.05.005
PMID: 24880539 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


818. Psychiatry Res. 2014 Sep 30;219(1):72-8. doi: 10.1016/j.psychres.2014.04.056. 
Epub 2014 May 14.

Neurocognitive capabilities modulate the integration of evidence in 
schizophrenia.

Eifler S(1), Rausch F(2), Schirmbeck F(3), Veckenstedt R(4), Englisch S(2), 
Meyer-Lindenberg A(2), Kirsch P(5), Zink M(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, Central Institute of Mental 
Health, University of Heidelberg, Medical Faculty Mannheim, J5, 68159 Mannheim, 
Germany. Electronic address: sarah.eifler@zi-mannheim.de.
(2)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, Central Institute of Mental 
Health, University of Heidelberg, Medical Faculty Mannheim, J5, 68159 Mannheim, 
Germany.
(3)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, Central Institute of Mental 
Health, University of Heidelberg, Medical Faculty Mannheim, J5, 68159 Mannheim, 
Germany; Department of Psychiatry, Academic Medical Center, University of 
Amsterdam, Meibergdreef 5, 1105 AZ Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(4)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University Medical Centre 
Hamburg-Eppendorf, 20246 Hamburg, Germany.
(5)Department of Clinical Psychology, Central Institute of Mental Health, 
University of Heidelberg, Medical Faculty Mannheim, J5, 68159 Mannheim, Germany.

Previous studies have demonstrated a cognitive bias in the integration of 
disconfirmatory evidence (BADE) in patients with schizophrenia. This bias has 
been associated with delusions. So far, it is unclear how the integration of 
evidence is associated with neurocognitive capabilities. In the current study, 
31 patients with schizophrenia and 29 healthy controls, matched on age, gender, 
education and premorbid verbal intelligence, underwent a BADE task. Written 
scenarios of three consecutive sentences each were presented, which 
progressively reduced the ambiguity of situations. Participants were asked to 
rate the plausibility of four possible interpretations and adjust their ratings 
in response to the provided sentences. Psychometric rating scales and a 
neuropsychological test battery were applied. Patients displayed a bias in the 
integration of confirmatory, but not disconfirmatory evidence and a liberal 
acceptance of belief formation. Correlation analyses revealed no associations of 
evidence integration with the severity of positive symptoms, but with 
neurocognitive domains, especially with processing speed, executive functioning, 
vigilance and working memory. In conclusion, patients with schizophrenia show a 
bias in evidence integration. Neurocognitive functioning emerged as a modulatory 
factor that should be considered in further research. Studies investigating BADE 
in earlier stages of psychosis will be necessary to reveal causal relationships.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2014.04.056
PMID: 24880580 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


819. Comput Biol Med. 2014 Aug;51:61-72. doi: 10.1016/j.compbiomed.2014.04.004. Epub 
2014 May 9.

Intelligent data analysis of instrumented gait data in stroke patients-a 
systematic review.

Wikström J(1), Georgoulas G(2), Moutsopoulos T(2), Seferiadis A(3).

Author information:
(1)The Gait and Movement laboratory at Southern Älvsborg Hospital, Gång och 
Rörelselaboratoriet, Södra Älvsborgs Sjukhus, 501 82 Borås, Sweden.
(2)Enzyme R&D, 38 Bizaniou St., 45221 Ioannina, Greece.
(3)The Gait and Movement laboratory at Southern Älvsborg Hospital, Gång och 
Rörelselaboratoriet, Södra Älvsborgs Sjukhus, 501 82 Borås, Sweden. Electronic 
address: aris.seferiadis@gmail.com.

Instrumented gait analysis (GA) may be used to analyze the causes of gait 
deviation in stroke patients but generates a large amount of complex data. The 
task of transforming this data into a comprehensible report is cumbersome. 
Intelligent data analysis (IDA) refers to the use of computational methods in 
order to analyze quantitative data more effectively. The purpose of this review 
was to identify and appraise the available IDA methods for handling GA data 
collected from patients with stroke using the standard equipment of a gait lab 
(3D/2D motion capture, force plates, EMG). Eleven databases were systematically 
searched and fifteen studies that employed some type of IDA method for the 
analysis of kinematic and/or kinetic and/or EMG data in populations involving 
stroke patients were identified. Four categories of IDA methods were employed 
for the analysis of sensor-acquired data in these fifteen studies: 
classification methods, dimensionality reduction methods, clustering methods and 
expert systems. The methodological quality of these studies was critically 
appraised by examining sample characteristics, measurements and IDA properties. 
Three overall methodological shortcomings were identified: (1) small sample 
sizes and underreported patient characteristics, (2) testing of which method is 
best suited to the analysis was neglected and (3) lack of stringent validation 
procedures. No IDA method for GA data from stroke patients was identified that 
can be directly applied to clinical practice. Our findings suggest that the 
potential provided by IDA methods is not being fully exploited.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.compbiomed.2014.04.004
PMID: 24880996 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


820. ScientificWorldJournal. 2014;2014:246589. doi: 10.1155/2014/246589. Epub 2014 
Apr 28.

Modeling of steam distillation mechanism during steam injection process using 
artificial intelligence.

Daryasafar A(1), Ahadi A(1), Kharrat R(1).

Author information:
(1)Petroleum Department, Petroleum University of Technology, P.O. Box 
6198144471, Ahwaz, Iran.

Steam distillation as one of the important mechanisms has a great role in oil 
recovery in thermal methods and so it is important to simulate this process 
experimentally and theoretically. In this work, the simulation of steam 
distillation is performed on sixteen sets of crude oil data found in the 
literature. Artificial intelligence (AI) tools such as artificial neural network 
(ANN) and also adaptive neurofuzzy interference system (ANFIS) are used in this 
study as effective methods to simulate the distillate recoveries of these sets 
of data. Thirteen sets of data were used to train the models and three sets were 
used to test the models. The developed models are highly compatible with respect 
to input oil properties and can predict the distillate yield with minimum entry. 
For showing the performance of the proposed models, simulation of steam 
distillation is also done using modified Peng-Robinson equation of state. 
Comparison between the calculated distillates by ANFIS and neural network models 
and also equation of state-based method indicates that the errors of the ANFIS 
model for training data and test data sets are lower than those of other 
methods.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/246589
PMCID: PMC4032774
PMID: 24883365 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


821. ScientificWorldJournal. 2014;2014:398235. doi: 10.1155/2014/398235. Epub 2014 
Apr 24.

Risk intelligence: making profit from uncertainty in data processing system.

Zheng S(1), Liao X(1), Liu X(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Computer, National University of Defense Technology, China.

In extreme scale data processing systems, fault tolerance is an essential and 
indispensable part. Proactive fault tolerance scheme (such as the speculative 
execution in MapReduce framework) is introduced to dramatically improve the 
response time of job executions when the failure becomes a norm rather than an 
exception. Efficient proactive fault tolerance schemes require precise knowledge 
on the task executions, which has been an open challenge for decades. To well 
address the issue, in this paper we design and implement RiskI, a profile-based 
prediction algorithm in conjunction with a riskaware task assignment algorithm, 
to accelerate task executions, taking the uncertainty nature of tasks into 
account. Our design demonstrates that the nature uncertainty brings not only 
great challenges, but also new opportunities. With a careful design, we can 
benefit from such uncertainties. We implement the idea in Hadoop 0.21.0 systems 
and the experimental results show that, compared with the traditional LATE 
algorithm, the response time can be improved by 46% with the same system 
throughput.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/398235
PMCID: PMC4030500
PMID: 24883392 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


822. J Psychiatry Neurosci. 2014 Sep;39(5):330-8. doi: 10.1503/jpn.130223.

Impaired right inferior frontal gyrus response to contextual cues in male 
veterans with PTSD during response inhibition.

van Rooij SJ(1), Rademaker AR(1), Kennis M(1), Vink M(2), Kahn RS(2), Geuze 
E(1).

Author information:
(1)Brain Center Rudolf Magnus, Department of Psychiatry, University Medical 
Center Utrecht and the Research Centre, Military Mental Healthcare, Ministry of 
Defence, the Netherlands.
(2)Brain Center Rudolf Magnus, Department of Psychiatry, University Medical 
Center Utrecht, the Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is often associated with 
impaired fear inhibition and decreased safety cue processing; however, studies 
capturing the cognitive aspect of inhibition and contextual cue processing are 
limited. In this fMRI study, the role of contextual cues in response inhibition 
was investigated.
METHODS: Male medication-naive war veterans with PTSD, male control veterans 
(combat controls) and healthy nonmilitary men (healthy controls) underwent fMRI 
while performing the stop-signal anticipation task (SSAT). The SSAT evokes 2 
forms of response inhibition: reactive inhibition (outright stopping) and 
proactive inhibition (anticipation of stopping based on contextual cues).
RESULTS: We enrolled 28 veterans with PTSD, 26 combat controls and 25 healthy 
controls in our study. Reduced reactive inhibition was observed in all veterans, 
both with and without PTSD, but not in nonmilitary controls, whereas decreased 
inhibition of the left pre/postcentral gyrus appeared to be specifically 
associated with PTSD. Impaired behavioural proactive inhibition was also 
specific to PTSD. Furthermore, the PTSD group showed a reduced right inferior 
frontal gyrus response during proactive inhibition compared with the combat 
control group.
LIMITATIONS: Most patients with PTSD had comorbid psychiatric disorders, but 
such comorbidity is common in patients with PTSD. Also, the education level 
(estimate of intelligence) of participants, but not of their parents, differed 
among the groups.
CONCLUSION: Our findings of reduced proactive inhibition imply that patients 
with PTSD show reduced contextual cue processing. These results complement 
previous findings on fear inhibition and demonstrate that contextual cue 
processing in patients with PTSD is also reduced during cognitive processes, 
indicating a more general deficit.

DOI: 10.1503/jpn.130223
PMCID: PMC4160362
PMID: 24886789 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


823. Psychiatr Genet. 2014 Aug;24(4):158-63. doi: 10.1097/YPG.0000000000000034.

The involvement of serotonin polymorphisms in autistic spectrum symptomatology.

Hervás A(1), Toma C, Romarís P, Ribasés M, Salgado M, Bayes M, Balmaña N, 
Cormand B, Maristany M, Guijarro S, Arranz MJ.

Author information:
(1)aDepartment of Child Psychiatry bFundació Docència i Recerca Mútua Terrassa, 
Hospital Universitari Mútua Terrassa cDepartment of Genetics, University of 
Barcelona dInstitut de Biomedicina de la Universitat de Barcelona (IBUB) 
eBiomedical Network Research Centre on Rare Diseases (CIBERER) fPsychiatric 
Genetics Unit, Vall d"Hebron Research Institute (VHIR) gNational Center for 
Genome Analysis (CNAG) hDepartment of Psychiatry, Hospital Sant Joan de Deu 
iDepartment of Psychiatry, Hospital Santa Creu i Sant Pau, Barcelona, Spain 
jDepartment of Neuroscience, Institute of Psychiatry, King's College London, 
London, UK.

BACKGROUND: Autism spectrum disorders (ASD) are highly inherited developmental 
syndromes, resulting from a complex interaction between environmental and 
genetic factors. To date, only a limited number of genetic variants have been 
discovered with respect to autism, and their contribution to the development of 
the disorder has not been clearly determined. Investigation of specific autistic 
symptomatology may improve the chances of identifying related genes and may help 
to better understand these disorders.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We investigated the contribution of 80 genetic variants 
in 15 serotonin genes to ASD phenotypes [intelligence quotation (IQ), 
intellectual disability (ID) and language onset delay (LD)] in a cohort of 141 
children and young adults (121 male patients and 20 female patients, average age 
14.5±5.1 years).
RESULTS: Two polymorphisms in the HTR2B gene, rs10194776 and rs16827801, were 
associated with IQ (P=0.0004 and 0.003, respectively), ID (P=0.02 and 0.03) and 
LD (P=0.04 and 0.004). Nominal associations were also detected between the ASD 
phenotypes investigated and 5-HT2A, 5-HT4 and 5-HT6 genetic variants.
CONCLUSION: Our study provides evidence of the contribution of serotonergic 
variants to IQ, ID and LD in ASD patients.

DOI: 10.1097/YPG.0000000000000034
PMID: 24887447 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


824. J Child Psychol Psychiatry. 2015 Jan;56(1):30-9. doi: 10.1111/jcpp.12267. Epub 
2014 Jun 3.

Phonological awareness and reading in boys with fragile X syndrome.

Adlof SM(1), Klusek J, Shinkareva SV, Robinson ML, Roberts JE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Communication Sciences and Disorders, University of South 
Carolina, Columbia, SC, USA.

BACKGROUND: Reading delays are well documented in children with fragile X 
syndrome (FXS), but few studies have examined linguistic precursors of reading 
in this population. This study examined the longitudinal development of 
phonological awareness and its relationship with basic reading in boys with FXS. 
Individual differences in genetic, social-behavioral and environmental factors 
were also investigated as predictors of phonological awareness.
METHODS: Participants included 54 boys with FXS and 53 typically developing (TD) 
mental age-matched peers who completed assessments of phonological awareness, 
nonverbal intelligence, and reading annually for up to 4 years. FMRP level and 
autism symptomatology were also measured within the FXS group. Hierarchical 
linear modeling was used to examine change in phonological awareness over time 
and its predictors. Linear regression was used to examine phonological awareness 
as a predictor of word reading.
RESULTS: Boys with FXS exhibited slower growth than TD peers in phonological 
awareness only when nonverbal cognitive abilities were not controlled. The rate 
of change in phonological awareness decreased significantly after age 10 in boys 
with FXS. Phonological awareness accounted for 18% unique variance in basic 
reading ability after controlling for nonverbal cognition, with similar 
relationships across groups.
CONCLUSION: Phonological awareness skills in the boys with FXS were commensurate 
with their nonverbal cognitive abilities, with similar relationships between 
phonological awareness and reading as observed in the TD mental age-matched 
peers. More research is needed to examine potential causal relationships between 
phonological awareness, other language skills, and reading abilities in 
individuals with FXS and other neurodevelopmental disorders.

© 2014 The Authors. Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry. © 2014 
Association for Child and Adolescent Mental Health.

DOI: 10.1111/jcpp.12267
PMCID: PMC4254899
PMID: 24889646 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


825. Ann Neurol. 2014 Jun;75(6):959-63. doi: 10.1002/ana.24158. Epub 2014 Jun 2.

Does bilingualism influence cognitive aging?

Bak TH(1), Nissan JJ, Allerhand MM, Deary IJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, United Kingdom; 
Centre for Cognitive Aging and Cognitive Epidemiology, University of Edinburgh, 
Edinburgh, United Kingdom.

Recent evidence suggests a positive impact of bilingualism on cognition, 
including later onset of dementia. However, monolinguals and bilinguals might 
have different baseline cognitive ability. We present the first study examining 
the effect of bilingualism on later-life cognition controlling for childhood 
intelligence. We studied 853 participants, first tested in 1947 (age = 11 
years), and retested in 2008-2010. Bilinguals performed significantly better 
than predicted from their baseline cognitive abilities, with strongest effects 
on general intelligence and reading. Our results suggest a positive effect of 
bilingualism on later-life cognition, including in those who acquired their 
second language in adulthood.

© 2014 The Authors Annals of Neurology published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc. on 
behalf of American Neurological Association. This is an open access article 
under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits use, 
distribution and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is 
properly cited.

DOI: 10.1002/ana.24158
PMCID: PMC4320748
PMID: 24890334 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


826. Psychooncology. 2015 Feb;24(2):181-9. doi: 10.1002/pon.3586. Epub 2014 Jun 2.

Neuropsychological functioning of children treated for acute lymphoblastic 
leukemia: impact of whole brain radiation therapy.

Annett RD(1), Hile S, Bedrick E, Kunin-Batson AS, Krull KR, Embry L, MacLean WE 
Jr, Noll RB.

Author information:
(1)University of New Mexico Health Sciences Center, MSC10-5590, 1 University of 
New Mexico, Albuquerque, NM, USA.

OBJECTIVES: To provide one of the first prospective reports examining 
neuropsychological outcomes for children treated with 1800 cGy whole brain 
radiotherapy (WBRT) and prophylactic chemotherapy versus prophylactic 
chemotherapy alone for acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). Acute and long-term 
neuropsychological toxicities associated with WBRT are compared.
METHODS: This multisite study included 188 children, ages 4-21 years at 
enrollment, who were assessed with standardized neuropsychological tests at 9, 
21, and 48 months after diagnosis with intermediate risk ALL. All participating 
children were receiving treatment on a parent study CCG105.
RESULTS: Verbal intelligence (VIQ) scores for children receiving WBRT was 
significantly lower than VIQ for prophylactic chemotherapy at the 48-month time 
point (p < 0.05). A significant cross-level interaction between time since 
diagnosis and treatment condition was observed (p < 0.05). WBRT did not result 
in differences in PIQ; both groups of children demonstrated comparable increases 
in PIQ. Neuropsychological findings at 48 months after diagnosis indicated 
diminished performance in neuromotor, visual-motor coordination, and executive 
functioning for children receiving WBRT. Academic achievement was unaffected by 
WBRT at 4 years after diagnosis.
CONCLUSIONS: The measurement of verbal and performance IQ as a primary endpoint 
in ALL clinical trials is critical to characterizing neuropsychological late 
effects. A trajectory of decline in neuropsychological functioning, specifically 
verbal IQ, was observed. Missing data within the trial occurred at random and 
did not impact results observed. The impact of WBRT becomes evident at 48 months 
after diagnosis, suggesting the need for long-term follow-up beyond the time 
frame typically used in Phase III trials.

Copyright © 2014 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/pon.3586
PMID: 24890730 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


827. Epilepsy Behav. 2014 Jul;36:86-9. doi: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2014.05.001. Epub 2014 
Jun 2.

Emotion recognition and social cognition in temporal lobe epilepsy and the 
effect of epilepsy surgery.

Amlerova J(1), Cavanna AE(2), Bradac O(3), Javurkova A(4), Raudenska J(4), 
Marusic P(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Charles University in Prague, 2nd Faculty of 
Medicine, University Hospital Motol, Prague, Czech Republic.
(2)Department of Neuropsychiatry, BSMHFT and University of Birmingham, UK; 
Institute of Neurology, University College London, UK; School of Life and Health 
Sciences, Aston University, Birmingham, UK.
(3)Department of Neurosurgery, Charles University in Prague, 1st Faculty of 
Medicine, Central Military Hospital, Prague, Czech Republic.
(4)Department of Psychology, University Hospital Motol, Prague, Czech Republic.
(5)Department of Neurology, Charles University in Prague, 2nd Faculty of 
Medicine, University Hospital Motol, Prague, Czech Republic; Department of 
Neurosurgery, Charles University in Prague, 1st Faculty of Medicine, Central 
Military Hospital, Prague, Czech Republic. Electronic address: 
petr.marusic@fnmotol.cz.

The abilities to identify facial expression from another person's face and to 
attribute mental states to others refer to preserved function of the temporal 
lobes. In the present study, we set out to evaluate emotion recognition and 
social cognition in presurgical and postsurgical patients with unilateral 
refractory temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). The aim of our study was to investigate 
the effects of TLE surgery and to identify the main risk factors for impairment 
in these functions. We recruited 30 patients with TLE for longitudinal data 
analysis (14 with right-sided and 16 with left-sided TLE) and 74 patients for 
cross-sectional data analysis (37 with right-sided and 37 with left-sided TLE) 
plus 20 healthy controls. Besides standard neuropsychological assessment, we 
administered an analog of the Ekman and Friesen test and the Faux Pas Test to 
assess emotion recognition and social cognition, respectively. Both emotion 
recognition and social cognition were impaired in the group of patients with 
TLE, irrespective of the focus side, compared with healthy controls. The 
performance in both tests was strongly dependent on the intelligence level. 
Beyond intelligence level, earlier age at epilepsy onset, longer disease 
duration, and history of early childhood brain injury predicted social cognition 
problems in patients with TLE. Epilepsy surgery within the temporal lobe seems 
to have neutral effect on patients' performances in both domains. However, there 
are a few individual patients who appear to be at risk of postoperative decline, 
even when seizure freedom is achieved following epilepsy surgery.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2014.05.001
PMID: 24892754 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


828. Pak J Biol Sci. 2014 Feb 1;17(3):335-45. doi: 10.3923/pjbs.2014.335.345.

Support vector machines for microscopic medical images compression.

Bentaouza CM, Benyettou M.

This study presents the compression of microscopic medical images by Support 
Vector Machines using machine learning. The visual cortex is the largest system 
in the human brain and is responsible for image processing such as compression, 
because the eye does not necessarily perceive all the details of an image. 
Medical images are a valuable means of decision support. However, they provide a 
large number of images per examination that can be transmitted over a network or 
stored for several years under the law imposed by the country. To apply the 
reasoning of biological intelligence, this study uses Support Vector Machines 
for compression to reduce the pixels of medical images in order to transmit data 
in less time and store information in less space. The results found by using 
this method are satisfactory for compression though the time must be improved.

DOI: 10.3923/pjbs.2014.335.345
PMID: 24897787 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


829. Psychol Rep. 2014 Apr;114(2):363-75. doi: 10.2466/03.09.PR0.114k22w7.

Construct and incremental validity of the Rotter Incomplete Sentences Blank in 
adult psychiatric outpatients.

McCloskey LC.

The expression of positive vs negative attitudes in response to the 40 stems of 
the Rotter Incomplete Sentences Blank (RISB) can be scored and summed to an 
Overall Adjustment Score (OAS). By extending the validation of the OAS to adult 
psychiatric outpatients, this study demonstrates for the first time the 
incremental validity of a personality test over a simple self-rating. The RISB 
and six tests of adjustment were administered to 41 recent admissions to 
psychotherapy in two rural clinics. The tests of adjustment were selected to 
cover the two domains of symptoms vs function and the three methods of interview 
schedule vs objective inventory vs therapist ratings. Their scores were combined 
into an adjustment composite. The OAS related strongly to the composite in 
univariate regression, and moderately in hierarchical regression after covarying 
demographics, intelligence, social desirability, and self-ratings of adjustment. 
Construct validity was good, and incremental validity at least fair.

DOI: 10.2466/03.09.PR0.114k22w7
PMID: 24897895 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


830. Psychol Rep. 2014 Apr;114(2):597-607. doi: 10.2466/04.10.PR0.114k21w8.

Attentional switching in intellectually gifted and average children: effects on 
performance and ERP.

Duan X, Shi J.

The study compared the performance and brain activity of children who were 
intellectually gifted or of average intelligence. 13 intellectually gifted (4 
girls, 9 boys; M age = 12.0 yr., SD = 0.2) and 13 average children (5 girls, 8 
boys; M age = 11.9 yr., SD = 0.3) participated in a task-switching experiment. 
The children performed a task repeatedly (single-trial blocks) or switched 
between two different tasks (mixed-trial blocks). Intellectually gifted children 
performed quicker than the average group for both mixed and single-trial blocks. 
The electroencephalography P300 amplitude was larger in the mixed compared to 
the single-trial condition, but this effect was observed only in the gifted 
children. The results support the notion that gifted children are characterized 
by a faster maturation that leads to an 'adult-like' brain activity.

DOI: 10.2466/04.10.PR0.114k21w8
PMID: 24897910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


831. Mem Cognit. 2014 Oct;42(7):1186-97. doi: 10.3758/s13421-014-0428-8.

The roles of associative and executive processes in creative cognition.

Beaty RE(1), Silvia PJ, Nusbaum EC, Jauk E, Benedek M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of North Carolina at Greensboro, P.O. 
Box 26170, Greensboro, NC, 27402-6170, USA, rebeaty@uncg.edu.

How does the mind produce creative ideas? Past research has pointed to important 
roles of both executive and associative processes in creative cognition. But 
such work has largely focused on the influence of one ability or the 
other-executive or associative-so the extent to which both abilities may jointly 
affect creative thought remains unclear. Using multivariate structural equation 
modeling, we conducted two studies to determine the relative influences of 
executive and associative processes in domain-general creative cognition (i.e., 
divergent thinking). Participants completed a series of verbal fluency tasks, 
and their responses were analyzed by means of latent semantic analysis (LSA) and 
scored for semantic distance as a measure of associative ability. Participants 
also completed several measures of executive function-including broad retrieval 
ability (Gr) and fluid intelligence (Gf). Across both studies, we found 
substantial effects of both associative and executive abilities: As the average 
semantic distance between verbal fluency responses and cues increased, so did 
the creative quality of divergent-thinking responses (Study 1 and Study 2). 
Moreover, the creative quality of divergent-thinking responses was predicted by 
the executive variables-Gr (Study 1) and Gf (Study 2). Importantly, the effects 
of semantic distance and the executive function variables remained robust in the 
same structural equation model predicting divergent thinking, suggesting unique 
contributions of both constructs. The present research extends recent 
applications of LSA in creativity research and provides support for the notion 
that both associative and executive processes underlie the production of novel 
ideas.

DOI: 10.3758/s13421-014-0428-8
PMID: 24898118 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


832. Technol Health Care. 2014;22(4):531-45. doi: 10.3233/THC-140816.

Seminal quality prediction using data mining methods.

Sahoo AJ(1), Kumar Y(2).

Author information:
(1)System Engineer, Infosys Technologies, Chennai, India.
(2)Department of Information Technology, Birla Institute of Technology, Mesra, 
Ranchi Jharkhand, India.

BACKGROUND: Now-a-days, some new classes of diseases have come into existences 
which are known as lifestyle diseases. The main reasons behind these diseases 
are changes in the lifestyle of people such as alcohol drinking, smoking, food 
habits etc. After going through the various lifestyle diseases, it has been 
found that the fertility rates (sperm quantity) in men has considerably been 
decreasing in last two decades. Lifestyle factors as well as environmental 
factors are mainly responsible for the change in the semen quality.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this paper is to identify the lifestyle and 
environmental features that affects the seminal quality and also fertility rate 
in man using data mining methods.
METHOD: The five artificial intelligence techniques such as Multilayer 
perceptron (MLP), Decision Tree (DT), Navie Bayes (Kernel), Support vector 
machine+Particle swarm optimization (SVM+PSO) and Support vector machine (SVM) 
have been applied on fertility dataset to evaluate the seminal quality and also 
to predict the person is either normal or having altered fertility rate. While 
the eight feature selection techniques such as support vector machine (SVM), 
neural network (NN), evolutionary logistic regression (LR), support vector 
machine plus particle swarm optimization (SVM+PSO), principle component analysis 
(PCA), chi-square test, correlation and T-test methods have been used to 
identify more relevant features which affect the seminal quality. These 
techniques are applied on fertility dataset which contains 100 instances with 
nine attribute with two classes.
RESULTS: The experimental result shows that SVM+PSO provides higher accuracy and 
area under curve (AUC) rate (94% & 0.932) among multi-layer perceptron (MLP) 
(92% & 0.728), Support Vector Machines (91% & 0.758), Navie Bayes (Kernel) (89% 
& 0.850) and Decision Tree (89% & 0.735) for some of the seminal parameters. 
This paper also focuses on the feature selection process i.e. how to select the 
features which are more important for prediction of fertility rate. In this 
paper, eight feature selection methods are applied on fertility dataset to find 
out a set of good features. The investigational results shows that childish 
diseases (0.079) and high fever features (0.057) has less impact on fertility 
rate while age (0.8685), season (0.843), surgical intervention (0.7683), alcohol 
consumption (0.5992), smoking habit (0.575), number of hours spent on setting 
(0.4366) and accident (0.5973) features have more impact. It is also observed 
that feature selection methods increase the accuracy of above mentioned 
techniques (multilayer perceptron 92%, support vector machine 91%, SVM+PSO 94%, 
Navie Bayes (Kernel) 89% and decision tree 89%) as compared to without feature 
selection methods (multilayer perceptron 86%, support vector machine 86%, 
SVM+PSO 85%, Navie Bayes (Kernel) 83% and decision tree 84%) which shows the 
applicability of feature selection methods in prediction.
CONCLUSION: This paper lightens the application of artificial techniques in 
medical domain. From this paper, it can be concluded that data mining methods 
can be used to predict a person with or without disease based on environmental 
and lifestyle parameters/features rather than undergoing various medical test. 
In this paper, five data mining techniques are used to predict the fertility 
rate and among which SVM+PSO provide more accurate results than support vector 
machine and decision tree.

DOI: 10.3233/THC-140816
PMID: 24898862 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


833. Biol Reprod. 2014 Jul;91(1):27. doi: 10.1095/biolreprod.113.117226. Epub 2014 
Jun 4.

Physical and mental development of children after levonorgestrel emergency 
contraception exposure: a follow-up prospective cohort study.

Zhang L(1), Ye W(2), Yu W(3), Cheng L(4), Shen L(5), Yang Z(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics, MOE-Shanghai Key Laboratory of Children's 
Environmental Health, Xinhua Hospital, Shanghai JiaoTong University School of 
Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(2)Department of Obstetrics, Xinhua Hospital, Shanghai JiaoTong University 
School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(3)Department of Child Health Care, International Peace Maternity and Child 
Health Hospital, School of Medicine, Shanghai JiaoTong University, Shanghai, 
China.
(4)Shanghai Institute of Planned Parenthood Research, Shanghai, China.
(5)Department of Child Health Care, MOE-Shanghai Key Laboratory of Children's 
Environmental Health, Xinhua Hospital, Shanghai JiaoTong University School of 
Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(6)Department of Obstetrics, MOE-Shanghai Key Laboratory of Children's 
Environmental Health, Xinhua Hospital, Shanghai JiaoTong University School of 
Medicine, Shanghai, China Yzujing@sohu.com.

Levonorgestrel (LNG), a dedicated emergency contraception (EC) product, has been 
available over-the-counter in China for more than 14 yr. Although LNG-EC is 
considered to have no effects on the developing fetus if the contraceptive fails 
and pregnancy occurs, there have been a few studies specifically examining this 
issue. The purpose of this study was to compare the physical and mental 
development of children born after LNG-EC failure with that of a cohort of 
children born to mothers with no history of exposure to LNG or any teratogenic 
substances. A group of 195 children who were exposed to LNG-EC during their 
mothers' conception cycle (study group) were matched to a group of 214 children 
without exposure to LNG (control group). The physical and mental development of 
the children were evaluated and compared over a 2-yr period. There were four 
congenital malformations in the study group and three in the control group (2.1% 
vs. 1.4%, respectively, P > 0.05). Over the 2-yr follow-up period, there were no 
statistically significant differences between the two groups with respect to 
children's weight, height, head circumference, and intelligence scores, and the 
values of all parameters of both groups were similar to those of the national 
standards. In summary, LNG-EC has no effect on the physical growth, mental 
development, or occurrence of birth defects in children born from pregnancies in 
which EC failed.

© 2014 by the Society for the Study of Reproduction, Inc.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod.113.117226
PMID: 24899575 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


834. PLoS One. 2014 Jun 5;9(6):e98827. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0098827. eCollection 
2014.

What is the Ability Emotional Intelligence Test (MSCEIT) good for? An evaluation 
using item response theory.

Fiori M(1), Antonietti JP(2), Mikolajczak M(3), Luminet O(3), Hansenne M(4), 
Rossier J(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Organizational Behavior, Faculty of Business and Economics, 
University of Lausanne, Lausanne, Switzerland.
(2)Institute of Psychology, Faculty of Social and Political Sciences, University 
of Lausanne, Lausanne, Switzerland.
(3)Department of Psychology, Catholic University of Louvain, Louvain-la-Neuve, 
Belgium.
(4)Department of Psychology, University of Liège, Liège, Belgium.

The ability approach has been indicated as promising for advancing research in 
emotional intelligence (EI). However, there is scarcity of tests measuring EI as 
a form of intelligence. The Mayer Salovey Caruso Emotional Intelligence Test, or 
MSCEIT, is among the few available and the most widespread measure of EI as an 
ability. This implies that conclusions about the value of EI as a meaningful 
construct and about its utility in predicting various outcomes mainly rely on 
the properties of this test. We tested whether individuals who have the highest 
probability of choosing the most correct response on any item of the test are 
also those who have the strongest EI ability. Results showed that this is not 
the case for most items: The answer indicated by experts as the most correct in 
several cases was not associated with the highest ability; furthermore, items 
appeared too easy to challenge individuals high in EI. Overall results suggest 
that the MSCEIT is best suited to discriminate persons at the low end of the 
trait. Results are discussed in light of applied and theoretical considerations.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0098827
PMCID: PMC4046984
PMID: 24901541 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


835. Sensors (Basel). 2014 Jun 4;14(6):9833-77. doi: 10.3390/s140609833.

Flexible unicast-based group communication for CoAP-enabled devices.

Ishaq I(1), Hoebeke J(2), Van den Abeele F(3), Rossey J(4), Moerman I(5), 
Demeester P(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Information Technology (INTEC), Ghent University - iMinds, 
Gaston Crommenlaan 8 Bus 201, Ghent 9050, Belgium. isam.ishaq@intec.ugent.be.
(2)Department of Information Technology (INTEC), Ghent University - iMinds, 
Gaston Crommenlaan 8 Bus 201, Ghent 9050, Belgium. 
jeroen.hoebeke@intec.ugent.be.
(3)Department of Information Technology (INTEC), Ghent University - iMinds, 
Gaston Crommenlaan 8 Bus 201, Ghent 9050, Belgium. 
floris.vandenabeele@intec.ugent.be.
(4)Department of Information Technology (INTEC), Ghent University - iMinds, 
Gaston Crommenlaan 8 Bus 201, Ghent 9050, Belgium. jen.rossey@intec.ugent.be.
(5)Department of Information Technology (INTEC), Ghent University - iMinds, 
Gaston Crommenlaan 8 Bus 201, Ghent 9050, Belgium. 
ingrid.moerman@intec.ugent.be.
(6)Department of Information Technology (INTEC), Ghent University - iMinds, 
Gaston Crommenlaan 8 Bus 201, Ghent 9050, Belgium. 
piet.demeester@intec.ugent.be.

Smart embedded objects will become an important part of what is called the 
Internet of Things. Applications often require concurrent interactions with 
several of these objects and their resources. Existing solutions have several 
limitations in terms of reliability, flexibility and manageability of such 
groups of objects. To overcome these limitations we propose an intermediately 
level of intelligence to easily manipulate a group of resources across multiple 
smart objects, building upon the Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP). We 
describe the design of our solution to create and manipulate a group of CoAP 
resources using a single client request. Furthermore we introduce the concept of 
profiles for the created groups. The use of profiles allows the client to 
specify in more detail how the group should behave. We have implemented our 
solution and demonstrate that it covers the complete group life-cycle, i.e., 
creation, validation, flexible usage and deletion. Finally, we quantitatively 
analyze the performance of our solution and compare it against multicast-based 
CoAP group communication. The results show that our solution improves 
reliability and flexibility with a trade-off in increased communication 
overhead.

DOI: 10.3390/s140609833
PMCID: PMC4118386
PMID: 24901978


836. Folia Morphol (Warsz). 2014 May;73(2):103-12. doi: 10.5603/FM.2014.0018.

Heart in anatomy history, radiology, anthropology and art.

Marinković S(1), Lazić D, Kanjuh V, Valjarević S, Tomić I, Aksić M, Starčević A.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Anatomy, Faculty of Medicine, University of Belgrade, Belgrade, 
Serbia. mocamarinkovic@med.bg.ac.rs.

BACKGROUND: Anthropologic, artistic and medical significance of heart inspired 
usto undertake this multidisciplinary study.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Amongst the 24 obtained echocardiograms and phonograms, 1 
was used for a Photoshop processing. In addition, over 20,000 art work 
reproductions were examined in this study.
RESULTS: Artistic and symbolic presentation of heart started some 15,000 years 
ago. First heart models were made by the Egyptian and Olmec civilisations. 
Ancient cultures regarded heart as the seat of the soul, spirit and 
intelligence. First anatomical and artistic images of heart were created by 
Leonardo da Vinci in the15th century, and first wax models by the Italian 
anatomists in the 17th century. Mediaeval religious symbolism of heart was 
replaced in the Renaissance and later on mainly by its role in the romantic 
love. Anatomical heart art continued in the 18th and 19th centuries through the 
works of Sénac, Cloquet, Hirschfeldand Bourgery. Some modern artists, such as 
Dalí, Kahlo, Rivera, Warhol, Ivanjicki, Vital, Kober and Mastrlova, created the 
anatomical heart images or sculptures, whereas some others, such as Duchamp, 
Klee, Miró, Matisse and Dine, presented heart symbol in their artworks. New 
radiologic technologies produce fine images of heart, some of which are similar 
to the works of modern artists.
CONCLUSIONS: Heart biology and symbolism have had a tremendous influence on our 
culture, including art and medical sciences. New radiologic techniques and 
computer technology have produced such images of heart, which substantially 
improved diagnosis, but also enhanced the heart aesthetics.

DOI: 10.5603/FM.2014.0018
PMID: 24902086


837. J Deaf Stud Deaf Educ. 2014 Oct;19(4):456-70. doi: 10.1093/deafed/enu011. Epub 
2014 Jun 5.

Executive functioning and speech-language skills following long-term use of 
cochlear implants.

Kronenberger WG(1), Colson BG(2), Henning SC(2), Pisoni DB(3).

Author information:
(1)Indiana University School of Medicine Indiana University School of Medicine 
wkronenb@iupui.edu.
(2)Indiana University School of Medicine.
(3)Indiana University School of Medicine Indiana University.

Neurocognitive processes such as executive functioning (EF) may influence the 
development of speech-language skills in deaf children after cochlear 
implantation in ways that differ from normal-hearing, typically developing 
children. Conversely, spoken language abilities and experiences may also exert 
reciprocal effects on the development of EF. The purpose of this study was to 
identify EF domains that are related to speech-language skills in cochlear 
implant (CI) users, compared to normal-hearing peers. Sixty-four prelingually 
deaf, early-implanted, long-term users of CIs and 74 normal-hearing peers 
equivalent in age and nonverbal intelligence completed measures of 
speech-language skills and three domains of EF: working memory, fluency-speed, 
and inhibition-concentration. Verbal working memory and fluency-speed were more 
strongly associated with speech-language outcomes in the CI users than in the 
normal-hearing peers. Spatial working memory and inhibition-concentration 
correlated positively with language skills in normal-hearing peers but not in CI 
users. The core domains of EF that are associated with spoken language 
development are different in long-term CI users compared to normal-hearing 
peers, suggesting important dissociations in neurocognitive development.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. 
For Permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/deafed/enu011
PMCID: PMC4146384
PMID: 24903605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


838. Am J Med Genet A. 2014 Sep;164A(9):2206-11. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.a.36624. Epub 2014 
Jun 5.

Association between macroorchidism and intelligence in FMR1 premutation 
carriers.

Lozano R(1), Summers S, Lozano C, Mu Y, Hessl D, Nguyen D, Tassone F, Hagerman 
R.

Author information:
(1)Medical Investigation of Neurodevelopmental Disorders (MIND) Institute, UC 
Davis Medical Center, Sacramento, California; Departments of Pediatrics, UC 
Davis Medical Center, Sacramento, California.

Characteristics of fragile X syndrome include macroorchidism and intellectual 
disability, which are associated with decreased FMRP levels. FMRP is highly 
expressed in many tissues, but primarily in the brain and testis. The 
relationship between these two characteristics has not previously been studied 
in the premutation or carrier state. To examine this among premutation carriers 
and a possible association with IQ, we evaluated macroorchidism status among 213 
males including 142 premutation carriers and 71 controls. The prevalence of 
macroorchidism among premutation carriers was 32.4% (46 out of 142), and 5.6% 
among controls (4 out of 71, P < 0.0001). Among premutation carriers, the 
age-adjusted odds ratio (OR) of macroorchidism was significantly increased with 
increasing FMR1 mRNA (OR 1.84, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.04-3.25; P = 
0.035). With respect to the association between macroorchidism and IQ, after 
adjustment for number of CGG repeats and age, premutation carriers with 
macroorchidism had lower verbal IQ (104.67 ± 15.86, P = 0.0152) and full scale 
IQ (102.98 ± 15.78, P = 0.0227) than premutation carriers without macroorchidism 
(verbal IQ 112.38 ± 14.14, full scale IQ 110.24 ± 14.21). Similar associations 
were observed for both verbal IQ (P = 0.034) and full scale IQ (P = 0.039) after 
being adjusted for age and FMR1 mRNA. These preliminary data support a 
correlation between macroorchidism and lower verbal and full scale IQ in a 
relevant proportion of premutation carrier males. Whether this is due to higher 
levels of FMR1 mRNA or to lower FMRP levels it remains to be established.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.a.36624
PMCID: PMC4332881
PMID: 24903624 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


839. Front Psychol. 2014 May 16;5:443. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.00443. eCollection 
2014.

Longitudinal and concurrent links between memory span, anxiety symptoms, and 
subsequent executive functioning in young children.

Visu-Petra L(1), Stanciu O(2), Benga O(1), Miclea M(3), Cheie L(1).

Author information:
(1)Developmental Psychology Lab, Department of Psychology, Babeş-Bolyai 
University Cluj-Napoca, Romania.
(2)Department of Applied Mathematics and Computer Science, University of Ghent 
Ghent, Belgium.
(3)Department of Psychology, Applied Cognitive Psychology Center, Babeş-Bolyai 
University Cluj-Napoca, Romania.

It has been conjectured that basic individual differences in attentional control 
influence higher-level executive functioning and subsequent academic performance 
in children. The current study sets out to complement the limited body of 
research on early precursors of executive functions (EFs). It provides both a 
cross-sectional, as well as a longitudinal exploration of the relationship 
between EF and more basic attentional control mechanisms, assessed via 
children's performance on memory storage tasks, and influenced by individual 
differences in anxiety. Multiple measures of verbal and visuospatial short-term 
memory (STM) were administered to children between 3 and 6 years old, alongside 
a non-verbal measure of intelligence, and a parental report of anxiety symptoms. 
After 9 months, children were re-tested on the same STM measures, at which time 
we also administered multiple measures of executive functioning: verbal and 
visuospatial working memory (WM), inhibition, and shifting. A cross-sectional 
view of STM development indicated that between 3 and 6 years the trajectory of 
visuospatial STM and EF underwent a gradual linear improvement. However, between 
5 and 6 years progress in verbal STM performance stagnated. Hierarchical 
regression models revealed that trait anxiety was negatively associated with WM 
and shifting, while non-verbal intelligence was positively related to WM span. 
When age, gender, non-verbal intelligence, and anxiety were controlled for, STM 
(measured at the first assessment) was a very good predictor of overall 
executive performance. The models were most successful in predicting WM, 
followed by shifting, yet poorly predicted inhibition measures. Further 
longitudinal research is needed to directly address the contribution of 
attentional control mechanisms to emerging executive functioning and to the 
development of problematic behavior during early development.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.00443
PMCID: PMC4032945
PMID: 24904462


840. Front Psychol. 2014 May 19;5:446. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.00446. eCollection 
2014.

ADHD among young adults born at extremely low birth weight: the role of fluid 
intelligence in childhood.

Lahat A(1), Van Lieshout RJ(2), Saigal S(3), Boyle MH(2), Schmidt LA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Neuroscience and Behaviour, McMaster University 
Hamilton, ON, Canada.
(2)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioural Neurosciences, McMaster University 
Hamilton, ON, Canada.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, McMaster University Hamilton, ON, Canada.

Poor executive function (EF) has been linked to attention-deficit/hyperactivity 
disorder (ADHD). Children born at extremely low birth weight (ELBW; <1000 g) 
have been found to show both poor EF, as well as elevated levels of symptoms of 
ADHD. In the present study, we examined whether fluid intelligence moderates the 
link between birth weight and later ADHD symptoms by prospectively following a 
cohort of 179 survivors who were born at ELBW. When participants were 8 
years-old, they were matched with 145 normal birth weight (NBW; ≥2500 g) control 
participants. At age 8, fluid intelligence was measured, and during young 
adulthood (ages 22-26), participants' self-reported levels of ADHD symptoms were 
examined. We found that ELBW survivors, who also showed poor fluid intelligence, 
had the highest rates of ADHD symptoms, and particularly, symptoms of 
inattention. These findings point to the importance of examining developmental 
trajectories that contribute to risk for psychopathology in those exposed to 
intrauterine adversity.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.00446
PMCID: PMC4032880
PMID: 24904465


841. Br J Educ Psychol. 2015 Jun;85(2):207-23. doi: 10.1111/bjep.12038. Epub 2014 Jun 
6.

Implicit theories about intelligence and growth (personal best) goals: Exploring 
reciprocal relationships.

Martin AJ(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Education, University of New South Wales, Sydney, New South Wales, 
Australia.

BACKGROUND: There has been increasing interest in growth approaches to students' 
academic development, including value-added models, modelling of academic 
trajectories, growth motivation orientations, growth mindsets, and growth goals.
AIMS: This study sought to investigate the relationships between implicit 
theories about intelligence (incremental and entity theories) and growth 
(personal best, PB) goals - with particular interest in the ordering of factors 
across time.
SAMPLE: The study focused on longitudinal data of 969 Australian high school 
students.
METHOD: The classic cross-lagged panel design (using structural equation 
modelling) was employed to shed light on the ordering of Time 1 growth goals, 
incremental theories, and entity theories relative to Time 2 (1 year later) 
growth goals, incremental theories, and entity theories.
RESULTS: Findings showed that Time 1 growth goals predicted Time 2 incremental 
theories (positively) and entity theories (negatively); Time 1 entity and 
incremental theories negatively predicted Time 2 incremental and entity theories 
respectively; but, Time 1 incremental theories and entity theories did not 
predict growth goals at Time 2.
CONCLUSION: This suggests that entity and incremental theories are negatively 
reciprocally related across time, but growth goals seem to be directionally 
salient over incremental and entity theories. Implications for promoting growth 
goals and growth mindsets are discussed.

© 2014 The British Psychological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/bjep.12038
PMID: 24904989 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


842. Br J Educ Psychol. 2014 Dec;84(Pt 4):571-90. doi: 10.1111/bjep.12042. Epub 2014 
Jun 6.

Implicit theories of writing and their impact on students' response to a SRSD 
intervention.

Limpo T(1), Alves RA.

Author information:
(1)University of Porto, Portugal.

BACKGROUND: In the field of intelligence research, it has been shown that some 
people conceive intelligence as a fixed trait that cannot be changed (entity 
beliefs), whereas others conceive it as a malleable trait that can be developed 
(incremental beliefs). What about writing? Do people hold similar implicit 
theories about the nature of their writing ability? Furthermore, are these 
beliefs likely to influence students' response to a writing intervention?
AIMS: We aimed to develop a scale to measure students' implicit theories of 
writing (pilot study) and to test whether these beliefs influence 
strategy-instruction effectiveness (intervention study).
SAMPLE: In the pilot and intervention studies participated, respectively, 128 
and 192 students (Grades 5-6).
METHOD: Based on existing instruments that measure self-theories of 
intelligence, we developed the Implicit Theories of Writing (ITW) scale that was 
tested with the pilot sample. In the intervention study, 109 students received 
planning instruction based on the self-regulated strategy development model, 
whereas 83 students received standard writing instruction. Students were 
evaluated before, in the middle, and after instruction.
RESULTS: ITW's validity was supported by piloting results and their successful 
cross-validation in the intervention study. In this, intervention students wrote 
longer and better texts than control students. Moreover, latent growth curve 
modelling showed that the more the intervention students conceived writing as a 
malleable skill, the more the quality of their texts improved.
CONCLUSION: This research is of educational relevance because it provides a 
measure to evaluate students' implicit theories of writing and shows their 
impact on response to intervention.

© 2014 The British Psychological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/bjep.12042
PMID: 24905206 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


843. Forensic Sci Int Genet. 2014 Sep;12:77-85. doi: 10.1016/j.fsigen.2014.04.014. 
Epub 2014 May 14.

Error rates in forensic DNA analysis: definition, numbers, impact and 
communication.

Kloosterman A(1), Sjerps M(2), Quak A(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Biological Traces (HBS), Netherlands Forensic Institute, 
P.O. Box 24044, 2490 AA The Hague, The Netherlands; Department of Science, 
Interdisciplinary Research, Statistics and Knowledge Management (WISK), 
Netherlands Forensic Institute, P.O. Box 24044, 2490 AA The Hague, The 
Netherlands; Institute for Biodiversity and Ecosystem Dynamics, University of 
Amsterdam, Science Park 904, 1098 XH Amsterdam, The Netherlands. Electronic 
address: a.kloosterman@nfi.minvenj.nl.
(2)Department of Science, Interdisciplinary Research, Statistics and Knowledge 
Management (WISK), Netherlands Forensic Institute, P.O. Box 24044, 2490 AA The 
Hague, The Netherlands; Korteweg-de Vries Institute for Mathematics, University 
of Amsterdam, Science Park 904, 1098 XH Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Human Biological Traces (HBS), Netherlands Forensic Institute, 
P.O. Box 24044, 2490 AA The Hague, The Netherlands.

Forensic DNA casework is currently regarded as one of the most important types 
of forensic evidence, and important decisions in intelligence and justice are 
based on it. However, errors occasionally occur and may have very serious 
consequences. In other domains, error rates have been defined and published. The 
forensic domain is lagging behind concerning this transparency for various 
reasons. In this paper we provide definitions and observed frequencies for 
different types of errors at the Human Biological Traces Department of the 
Netherlands Forensic Institute (NFI) over the years 2008-2012. Furthermore, we 
assess their actual and potential impact and describe how the NFI deals with the 
communication of these numbers to the legal justice system. We conclude that the 
observed relative frequency of quality failures is comparable to studies from 
clinical laboratories and genetic testing centres. Furthermore, this frequency 
is constant over the five-year study period. The most common causes of failures 
related to the laboratory process were contamination and human error. Most human 
errors could be corrected, whereas gross contamination in crime samples often 
resulted in irreversible consequences. Hence this type of contamination is 
identified as the most significant source of error. Of the known contamination 
incidents, most were detected by the NFI quality control system before the 
report was issued to the authorities, and thus did not lead to flawed decisions 
like false convictions. However in a very limited number of cases crucial errors 
were detected after the report was issued, sometimes with severe consequences. 
Many of these errors were made in the post-analytical phase. The error rates 
reported in this paper are useful for quality improvement and benchmarking, and 
contribute to an open research culture that promotes public trust. However, they 
are irrelevant in the context of a particular case. Here case-specific 
probabilities of undetected errors are needed. These should be reported, 
separately from the match probability, when requested by the court or when there 
are internal or external indications for error. It should also be made clear 
that there are various other issues to consider, like DNA transfer. Forensic 
statistical models, in particular Bayesian networks, may be useful to take the 
various uncertainties into account and demonstrate their effects on the 
evidential value of the forensic DNA results.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fsigen.2014.04.014
PMID: 24905336 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


844. Forensic Sci Int Genet. 2014 Sep;12:86-92. doi: 10.1016/j.fsigen.2014.05.003. 
Epub 2014 May 13.

Direct amplification of casework bloodstains using the Promega PowerPlex(®) 21 
PCR amplification system.

Gray K(1), Crowle D(2), Scott P(2).

Author information:
(1)Forensic Science Service Tasmania, 20 St. Johns Avenue, New Town, Tasmania 
7008, Australia. Electronic address: kerryn.gray@fsst.tas.gov.au.
(2)Forensic Science Service Tasmania, 20 St. Johns Avenue, New Town, Tasmania 
7008, Australia.

A significant number of evidence items submitted to Forensic Science Service 
Tasmania (FSST) are blood swabs or bloodstained items. Samples from these items 
routinely undergo phenol:chloroform:isoamyl alcohol organic extraction and 
quantitative Polymerase Chain Reaction (qPCR) testing prior to PowerPlex(®) 21 
amplification. This multi-step process has significant cost and timeframe 
implications in a fiscal climate of tightening government budgets, pressure 
towards improved operating efficiencies, and an increasing emphasis on rapid 
techniques better supporting intelligence-led policing. Direct amplification of 
blood and buccal cells on cloth and Whatman FTA™ card with PowerPlex(®) 21 has 
already been successfully implemented for reference samples, eliminating the 
requirement for sample pre-treatment. Scope for expanding this method to include 
less pristine casework blood swabs and samples from bloodstained items was 
explored in an endeavour to eliminate lengthy DNA extraction, purification and 
qPCR steps for a wider subset of samples. Blood was deposited onto a range of 
substrates including those historically found to inhibit STR amplification. 
Samples were collected with micro-punch, micro-swab, or both. The potential for 
further fiscal savings via reduced volume amplifications was assessed by 
amplifying all samples at full and reduced volume (25 and 13μL). Overall success 
rate data showed 80% of samples yielded a complete profile at reduced volume, 
compared to 78% at full volume. Particularly high success rates were observed 
for the blood on fabric/textile category with 100% of micro-punch samples 
yielding complete profiles at reduced volume and 85% at full volume. Following 
the success of this trial, direct amplification of suitable casework blood 
samples has been implemented at reduced volume. Significant benefits have been 
experienced, most noticeably where results from crucial items have been provided 
to police investigators prior to interview of suspects, and a coronial 
identification has been successfully completed in a short timeframe to avoid 
delay in the release of human remains to family members.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fsigen.2014.05.003
PMID: 24905337 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


845. Br J Psychol. 2015 May;106(2):217-34. doi: 10.1111/bjop.12075. Epub 2014 Jun 6.

The magic of collective emotional intelligence in learning groups: No guys 
needed for the spell!

Curşeu PL(1), Pluut H, Boroş S, Meslec N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Organisation Studies, Tilburg University, The Netherlands.

Using a cross-lagged design, the present study tests an integrative model of 
emergent collective emotions in learning groups. Our results indicate that the 
percentage of women in the group fosters the emergence of collective emotional 
intelligence, which in turn stimulates social integration within groups 
(increases group cohesion and reduces relationship conflict) and the associated 
affective similarity, with beneficial effects for group effectiveness.

© 2014 The British Psychological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/bjop.12075
PMID: 24905387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


846. J Hepatol. 2014 Nov;61(5):1020-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jhep.2014.05.039. Epub 2014 Jun 
4.

Use of artificial intelligence as an innovative donor-recipient matching model 
for liver transplantation: results from a multicenter Spanish study.

Briceño J(1), Cruz-Ramírez M(2), Prieto M(3), Navasa M(4), Ortiz de Urbina J(5), 
Orti R(6), Gómez-Bravo MÁ(7), Otero A(8), Varo E(9), Tomé S(9), Clemente G(10), 
Bañares R(10), Bárcena R(11), Cuervas-Mons V(12), Solórzano G(13), Vinaixa C(3), 
Rubín A(3), Colmenero J(4), Valdivieso A(5), Ciria R(6), Hervás-Martínez C(2), 
de la Mata M(6).

Author information:
(1)Liver Transplantation Unit, CIBERehd, IMIBIC, Hospital Reina Sofía, Córdoba, 
Spain. Electronic address: javibriceno@hotmail.com.
(2)Department of Computer Science and Numerical Analysis, University of Córdoba, 
Spain.
(3)Liver Transplantation Unit, CIBERehd, Hospital La Fe, Valencia, Spain.
(4)Liver Transplantation Unit, Hospital Clínic, Barcelona, Spain.
(5)Liver Transplantation Unit, Hospital de Cruces, Bilbao, Spain.
(6)Liver Transplantation Unit, CIBERehd, IMIBIC, Hospital Reina Sofía, Córdoba, 
Spain.
(7)Liver Transplantation Unit, Hospital Virgen del Rocío, Sevilla, Spain.
(8)Liver Transplantation Unit, Hospital Juan Canalejo, A Coruña, Spain.
(9)Liver Transplantation Unit, Hospital Clínico Universitario, Santiago de 
Compostela, Spain.
(10)Liver Transplantation Unit, Hospital Gregorio Marañón, Madrid, Spain.
(11)Liver Transplantation Unit, Hospital Ramón y Cajal, Madrid, Spain.
(12)Liver Transplantation Unit, Hospital Puerta de Hierro, Madrid, Spain.
(13)Liver Transplantation Unit, Hospital Infanta Cristina, Badajoz, Spain.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: There is an increasing discrepancy between the number of 
potential liver graft recipients and the number of organs available. Organ 
allocation should follow the concept of benefit of survival, avoiding 
human-innate subjectivity. The aim of this study is to use 
artificial-neural-networks (ANNs) for donor-recipient (D-R) matching in liver 
transplantation (LT) and to compare its accuracy with validated scores (MELD, 
D-MELD, DRI, P-SOFT, SOFT, and BAR) of graft survival.
METHODS: 64 donor and recipient variables from a set of 1003 LTs from a 
multicenter study including 11 Spanish centres were included. For each D-R pair, 
common statistics (simple and multiple regression models) and ANN formulae for 
two non-complementary probability-models of 3-month graft-survival and -loss 
were calculated: a positive-survival (NN-CCR) and a negative-loss (NN-MS) model. 
The NN models were obtained by using the Neural Net Evolutionary Programming 
(NNEP) algorithm. Additionally, receiver-operating-curves (ROC) were performed 
to validate ANNs against other scores.
RESULTS: Optimal results for NN-CCR and NN-MS models were obtained, with the 
best performance in predicting the probability of graft-survival (90.79%) and 
-loss (71.42%) for each D-R pair, significantly improving results from multiple 
regressions. ROC curves for 3-months graft-survival and -loss predictions were 
significantly more accurate for ANN than for other scores in both NN-CCR 
(AUROC-ANN=0.80 vs. -MELD=0.50; -D-MELD=0.54; -P-SOFT=0.54; -SOFT=0.55; 
-BAR=0.67 and -DRI=0.42) and NN-MS (AUROC-ANN=0.82 vs. -MELD=0.41; -D-MELD=0.47; 
-P-SOFT=0.43; -SOFT=0.57, -BAR=0.61 and -DRI=0.48).
CONCLUSIONS: ANNs may be considered a powerful decision-making technology for 
this dataset, optimizing the principles of justice, efficiency and equity. This 
may be a useful tool for predicting the 3-month outcome and a potential research 
area for future D-R matching models.

Copyright © 2014 European Association for the Study of the Liver. Published by 
Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhep.2014.05.039
PMID: 24905493 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


847. Acc Chem Res. 2014 Jun 17;47(6):1681-90. doi: 10.1021/ar400318d. Epub 2014 Jun 
6.

Molecular robots with sensors and intelligence.

Hagiya M(1), Konagaya A, Kobayashi S, Saito H, Murata S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Computer Science, The University of Tokyo , 7-3-1 Hongo, 
Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-8656, Japan .

CONSPECTUS: What we can call a molecular robot is a set of molecular devices 
such as sensors, logic gates, and actuators integrated into a consistent system. 
The molecular robot is supposed to react autonomously to its environment by 
receiving molecular signals and making decisions by molecular computation. 
Building such a system has long been a dream of scientists; however, despite 
extensive efforts, systems having all three functions (sensing, computation, and 
actuation) have not been realized yet. This Account introduces an ongoing 
research project that focuses on the development of molecular robotics funded by 
MEXT (Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology, Japan). 
This 5 year project started in July 2012 and is titled "Development of Molecular 
Robots Equipped with Sensors and Intelligence". The major issues in the field of 
molecular robotics all correspond to a feedback (i.e., plan-do-see) cycle of a 
robotic system. More specifically, these issues are (1) developing molecular 
sensors capable of handling a wide array of signals, (2) developing 
amplification methods of signals to drive molecular computing devices, (3) 
accelerating molecular computing, (4) developing actuators that are controllable 
by molecular computers, and (5) providing bodies of molecular robots 
encapsulating the above molecular devices, which implement the conformational 
changes and locomotion of the robots. In this Account, the latest contributions 
to the project are reported. There are four research teams in the project that 
specialize on sensing, intelligence, amoeba-like actuation, and slime-like 
actuation, respectively. The molecular sensor team is focusing on the 
development of molecular sensors that can handle a variety of signals. This team 
is also investigating methods to amplify signals from the molecular sensors. The 
molecular intelligence team is developing molecular computers and is currently 
focusing on a new photochemical technology for accelerating DNA-based 
computations. They also introduce novel computational models behind various 
kinds of molecular computers necessary for designing such computers. The amoeba 
robot team aims at constructing amoeba-like robots. The team is trying to 
incorporate motor proteins, including kinesin and microtubules (MTs), for use as 
actuators implemented in a liposomal compartment as a robot body. They are also 
developing a methodology to link DNA-based computation and molecular motor 
control. The slime robot team focuses on the development of slime-like robots. 
The team is evaluating various gels, including DNA gel and BZ gel, for use as 
actuators, as well as the body material to disperse various molecular devices in 
it. They also try to control the gel actuators by DNA signals coming from 
molecular computers.

DOI: 10.1021/ar400318d
PMID: 24905779 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


848. Int J Epidemiol. 2015 Apr;44(2):432-40. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyu114. Epub 2014 Jun 
6.

Cohort Profile: The Danish Conscription Database(DCD): A cohort of 728,160 men 
born from 1939 through 1959.

Christensen GT(1), Molbo D(2), Ängquist LH(3), Mortensen EL(2), Christensen 
K(2), Sørensen TI(2), Osler M(4).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Public Health, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark, 
Research Center for Prevention and Health, Glostrup Hospital, Glostrup, Denmark, 
Danish Ageing Research Center, Institute of Public Health, University of 
Southern Denmark, Odense, Denmark, Institute of Preventive Medicine, Bispebjerg 
and Frederiksberg Hospitals, The Capital Region, Copenhagen, Denmark, Department 
of Clinical Genetics and Department of Clinical Biochemistry and Pharmacology, 
Odense University Hospital, Odense, Denmark and Novo Nordisk Foundation Center 
for Basic Metabolic Research, Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, University 
of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark Institute of Public Health, University of 
Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark, Research Center for Prevention and Health, 
Glostrup Hospital, Glostrup, Denmark, Danish Ageing Research Center, Institute 
of Public Health, University of Southern Denmark, Odense, Denmark, Institute of 
Preventive Medicine, Bispebjerg and Frederiksberg Hospitals, The Capital Region, 
Copenhagen, Denmark, Department of Clinical Genetics and Department of Clinical 
Biochemistry and Pharmacology, Odense University Hospital, Odense, Denmark and 
Novo Nordisk Foundation Center for Basic Metabolic Research, Faculty of Health 
and Medical Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark Institute of 
Public Health, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark, Research Center 
for Prevention and Health, Glostrup Hospital, Glostrup, Denmark, Danish Ageing 
Research Center, Institute of Public Health, University of Southern Denmark, 
Odense, Denmark, Institute of Preventive Medicine, Bispebjerg and Frederiksberg 
Hospitals, The Capital Region, Copenhagen, Denmark, Department of Clinical 
Genetics and Department of Clinical Biochemistry and Pharmacology, Odense 
University Hospital, Odense, Denmark and Novo Nordisk Foundation Center for 
Basic Metabolic Research, Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, University of 
Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(2)Institute of Public Health, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark, 
Research Center for Prevention and Health, Glostrup Hospital, Glostrup, Denmark, 
Danish Ageing Research Center, Institute of Public Health, University of 
Southern Denmark, Odense, Denmark, Institute of Preventive Medicine, Bispebjerg 
and Frederiksberg Hospitals, The Capital Region, Copenhagen, Denmark, Department 
of Clinical Genetics and Department of Clinical Biochemistry and Pharmacology, 
Odense University Hospital, Odense, Denmark and Novo Nordisk Foundation Center 
for Basic Metabolic Research, Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, University 
of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark Institute of Public Health, University of 
Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark, Research Center for Prevention and Health, 
Glostrup Hospital, Glostrup, Denmark, Danish Ageing Research Center, Institute 
of Public Health, University of Southern Denmark, Odense, Denmark, Institute of 
Preventive Medicine, Bispebjerg and Frederiksberg Hospitals, The Capital Region, 
Copenhagen, Denmark, Department of Clinical Genetics and Department of Clinical 
Biochemistry and Pharmacology, Odense University Hospital, Odense, Denmark and 
Novo Nordisk Foundation Center for Basic Metabolic Research, Faculty of Health 
and Medical Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(3)Institute of Public Health, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark, 
Research Center for Prevention and Health, Glostrup Hospital, Glostrup, Denmark, 
Danish Ageing Research Center, Institute of Public Health, University of 
Southern Denmark, Odense, Denmark, Institute of Preventive Medicine, Bispebjerg 
and Frederiksberg Hospitals, The Capital Region, Copenhagen, Denmark, Department 
of Clinical Genetics and Department of Clinical Biochemistry and Pharmacology, 
Odense University Hospital, Odense, Denmark and Novo Nordisk Foundation Center 
for Basic Metabolic Research, Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, University 
of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(4)Institute of Public Health, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark, 
Research Center for Prevention and Health, Glostrup Hospital, Glostrup, Denmark, 
Danish Ageing Research Center, Institute of Public Health, University of 
Southern Denmark, Odense, Denmark, Institute of Preventive Medicine, Bispebjerg 
and Frederiksberg Hospitals, The Capital Region, Copenhagen, Denmark, Department 
of Clinical Genetics and Department of Clinical Biochemistry and Pharmacology, 
Odense University Hospital, Odense, Denmark and Novo Nordisk Foundation Center 
for Basic Metabolic Research, Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, University 
of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark Institute of Public Health, University of 
Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark, Research Center for Prevention and Health, 
Glostrup Hospital, Glostrup, Denmark, Danish Ageing Research Center, Institute 
of Public Health, University of Southern Denmark, Odense, Denmark, Institute of 
Preventive Medicine, Bispebjerg and Frederiksberg Hospitals, The Capital Region, 
Copenhagen, Denmark, Department of Clinical Genetics and Department of Clinical 
Biochemistry and Pharmacology, Odense University Hospital, Odense, Denmark and 
Novo Nordisk Foundation Center for Basic Metabolic Research, Faculty of Health 
and Medical Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark Institute of 
Public Health, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark, Research Center 
for Prevention and Health, Glostrup Hospital, Glostrup, Denmark, Danish Ageing 
Research Center, Institute of Public Health, University of Southern Denmark, 
Odense, Denmark, Institute of Preventive Medicine, Bispebjerg and Frederiksberg 
Hospitals, The Capital Region, Copenhagen, Denmark, Department of Clinical 
Genetics and Department of Clinical Biochemistry and Pharmacology, Odense 
University Hospital, Odense, Denmark and Novo Nordisk Foundation Center for 
Basic Metabolic Research, Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, University of 
Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark merete.o

The Danish Conscription Database (DCD) was established to enable studies of the 
influence of early physical and mental exposures on adverse health and social 
outcomes from a life-course perspective. In Denmark, all young men are requested 
to appear before the conscription board when they turn 18 years, to be assessed 
for military service. The DCD was established by digitizing information from 
conscription board register cards on the height, weight, educational level, 
intelligence test score and examination details of Danish conscripts. The DCD 
contains information on 728,160 men born from 1939 through 1959 and examined by 
the conscription board from 1957 through 1984. The unique Danish personal 
identification number of each individual conscript has been traced, and this 
allows linkage of the DCD to all Danish health and socioeconomic registers. More 
than 130,000 deaths have been identified in a recent linkage to the Danish 
Register of Cause of Death. We encourage collaboration, and interested 
researchers should contact: 
danishconscriptiondatabase.glostrup-hospital@regionh.dk.

© The Author 2014; all rights reserved. Published by Oxford University Press on 
behalf of the International Epidemiological Association.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyu114
PMID: 24906367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


849. J Acoust Soc Am. 2014 Jun;135(6):3416-24. doi: 10.1121/1.4874620.

A broadband, capacitive, surface-micromachined, omnidirectional microphone with 
more than 200 kHz bandwidth.

Kuntzman ML(1), Hall NA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, The University of Texas at 
Austin, Austin, Texas 78712.

A surface micromachined microphone is presented with 230 kHz bandwidth. The 
structure uses a 2.25 μm thick, 315 μm radius polysilicon diaphragm suspended 
above an 11 μm gap to form a variable parallel-plate capacitance. The back 
cavity of the microphone consists of the 11 μm thick air volume immediately 
behind the moving diaphragm and also an extended lateral cavity with a radius of 
504 μm. The dynamic frequency response of the sensor in response to 
electrostatic signals is presented using laser Doppler vibrometry and indicates 
a system compliance of 0.4 nm/Pa in the flat-band of the response. The sensor is 
configured for acoustic signal detection using a charge amplifier, and 
signal-to-noise ratio measurements and simulations are presented. A resolution 
of 0.80 mPa/√Hz (32 dB sound pressure level in a 1 Hz bin) is achieved in the 
flat-band portion of the response extending from 10 kHz to 230 kHz. The proposed 
sensor design is motivated by defense and intelligence gathering applications 
that require broadband, airborne signal detection.

DOI: 10.1121/1.4874620
PMID: 24907805


850. Neuro Oncol. 2014 Dec;16(12):1652-60. doi: 10.1093/neuonc/nou101. Epub 2014 Jun 
7.

Prospective evaluation of local control and late effects of conformal radiation 
therapy in children, adolescents, and young adults with high-grade glioma.

Vern-Gross TZ(1), Schreiber JE(1), Broniscer A(1), Wu S(1), Xiong X(1), Merchant 
TE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Florida Proton Therapy 
Institute, Jacksonville, Florida (T.Z.V.-G.); Department of Psychology, St. Jude 
Children's Research Hospital, Memphis, Tennessee (J.E.S.); Department of 
Oncology, St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, Memphis, Tennessee (A.B.); 
Department of Biostatistics, St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, Memphis, 
Tennessee (S.W., X.X.); Department of Radiological Sciences, St. Jude Children's 
Research Hospital, Memphis, Tennessee (T.E.M.).

BACKGROUND: A phase II trial of conformal radiotherapy (CRT) for pediatric 
high-grade glioma (HGG) was performed to evaluate disease control and late 
effects.
METHODS: Between July 1997 and January 2003, 34 pediatric patients (median age, 
13.2 ± 6.7 years) with HGG were enrolled on an International Commission on 
Radiation Units and Measurements Report 50-compliant prospective trial using CRT 
with a 2 cm clinical target volume margin. Baseline and serial evaluations were 
performed to assess functional outcomes.
RESULTS: Median follow-up for the entire group was 18 months (range, 2-134 
months). Twenty (58.8%) patients developed local progression, and 6 (17.6%) 
patients developed distant progression. Progression-free and overall survival at 
10 years were 18.8% ± 6.9% and 16.8% ± 6.5%, respectively. At baseline, 40% of 
patients evaluated for intelligence quotient (IQ) scored below 85. Measures of 
cognitive function obtained during the first 12 months fit a mixed model with a 
quadratic function. The relationship between IQ and time was -1.1883 
points/month for the linear term and 0.07728 points/month for the quadratic term 
(P = .0454). IQ decreased between baseline and 6 months and then increased 
slightly through 12 months. The opposite was found for (all P values of the 
quadratic term) activities of daily living (P = .0155), socialization (P = 
.0049), and the composite score (P = .0257) of adaptive behavior.
CONCLUSION: CRT using a 2 cm clinical target volume margin in pediatric HGG 
demonstrated tumor control comparable to conventional radiation therapy. 
Disrupted cognitive and adaptive behavioral functioning were present at baseline 
and throughout the course of disease.

© The Author(s) 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Society for Neuro-Oncology. All rights reserved. For permissions, please e-mail: 
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/neuonc/nou101
PMCID: PMC4232080
PMID: 24908655 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


851. Sci Rep. 2014 Jun 9;4:5210. doi: 10.1038/srep05210.

Swarm intelligence inspired shills and the evolution of cooperation.

Duan H(1), Sun C(1).

Author information:
(1)1] State Key Laboratory of Virtual Reality Technology and Systems, Beihang 
University, Beijing 100191, P. R. China [2] Science and Technology on Aircraft 
Control Laboratory, School of Automation Science and Electronic Engineering, 
Beihang University, Beijing 100191, P. R. China.

Many hostile scenarios exist in real-life situations, where cooperation is 
disfavored and the collective behavior needs intervention for system efficiency 
improvement. Towards this end, the framework of soft control provides a powerful 
tool by introducing controllable agents called shills, who are allowed to follow 
well-designed updating rules for varying missions. Inspired by swarm 
intelligence emerging from flocks of birds, we explore here the dependence of 
the evolution of cooperation on soft control by an evolutionary iterated 
prisoner's dilemma (IPD) game staged on square lattices, where the shills adopt 
a particle swarm optimization (PSO) mechanism for strategy updating. We 
demonstrate that not only can cooperation be promoted by shills effectively 
seeking for potentially better strategies and spreading them to others, but also 
the frequency of cooperation could be arbitrarily controlled by choosing 
appropriate parameter settings. Moreover, we show that adding more shills does 
not contribute to further cooperation promotion, while assigning higher weights 
to the collective knowledge for strategy updating proves a efficient way to 
induce cooperative behavior. Our research provides insights into cooperation 
evolution in the presence of PSO-inspired shills and we hope it will be 
inspirational for future studies focusing on swarm intelligence based soft 
control.

DOI: 10.1038/srep05210
PMCID: PMC4049027
PMID: 24909519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


852. Br J Educ Psychol. 2014 Dec;84(Pt 4):556-70. doi: 10.1111/bjep.12041. Epub 2014 
Jun 9.

The influence of fluid and crystallized intelligence on the development of 
knowledge and skills.

Thorsen C(1), Gustafsson JE, Cliffordson C.

Author information:
(1)University of Gothenburg, Sweden; University West, Trollhättan, Sweden.

BACKGROUND: Cattell's Gf-Gc distinction is quite generally recognized. However, 
the developmental part of the Gf-Gc theory of intelligence has not gained the 
same recognition. Results are inconsistent, but recent discussions emphasize the 
importance of homogeneity of samples with regard to education and language when 
investigating the developmental Investment theory.
AIMS: The aim of this study was to investigate the influence of Gf and Gc on the 
development of knowledge and skills in a sample of children in compulsory school 
who are homogenous with regard to level of education, age, and cultural 
background.
SAMPLE: Totally, 9,002 individuals from the evaluation through follow-up 
database born in 1972 and who left compulsory school in 1988 were included. 
These individuals were followed up in Grades 3, 6, and 9.
METHODS: Structural equation modelling was used, and autoregressive path models 
were fitted. All modelling was performed using Mplus version 6.1.
RESULTS: In the first step, a path model with a simplex structure was defined. 
However, a second model with direct relations of Gf on Gc in Grades 6 and 9 had 
better model fit, suggesting a continuous influence of Gf on Gc. However, no 
direct influence of Gf was found for the subject grades.
CONCLUSION: Due to the continuous influence of Gf on the measures of Gc 
throughout compulsory school, support for Cattell's (1987) Investment theory was 
found.

© 2014 The British Psychological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/bjep.12041
PMID: 24909645 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


853. BJOG. 2014 Dec;121(13):1642-51. doi: 10.1111/1471-0528.12907. Epub 2014 Jun 9.

Fertility treatment and child intelligence, attention, and executive functions 
in 5-year-old singletons: a cohort study.

Bay B(1), Mortensen EL, Kesmodel US.

Author information:
(1)Section for Epidemiology, School of Public Health, Aarhus University, Aarhus, 
Denmark; The Fertility Clinic, Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, 
Institute of Clinical Medicine, Aarhus University, Aarhus, Denmark.

Comment in
    BJOG. 2014 Dec;121(13):1652.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the association of fertility treatment and subfertility 
with offspring intelligence, attention, and executive functions in 5-year-old 
singletons.
DESIGN: Follow-up study.
SETTING: Denmark 2003-2008.
POPULATION: A cohort of 1782 children sampled from the Danish National Birth 
Cohort.
METHODS: The children were tested with a neuropsychological battery at age five. 
In addition to tests of intelligence, attention and executive functions, the 
follow up included extensive information on important covariates. The analyses 
were conducted using multiple linear regression and adjusted for parental 
educational level, maternal intelligence, age, parity, body mass index, smoking 
in pregnancy, alcohol consumption in pregnancy and child gender, child age, and 
examiner.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Wechsler Preschool and Primary Scale of 
Intelligence-Revised, the Test of Everyday Attention for Children at Five, and 
the Behavior Rating Inventory of Executive Functions scores.
RESULTS: A consistent pattern of nonsignificantly lower scores were only 
observed for intelligence and executive functions in children born after 
fertility treatment or by subfertile parents when the results were unadjusted 
for maternal intelligence and parental educational level. When adjusted for 
these and other covariates, there were no significant mean differences in 
intelligence (mean difference -2.8, 95% CI -7.8, 2.2), overall attention (-0.1, 
95% CI -0.6, 0.3), or parent-rated executive functions (-0.1, 95% CI -3.0, 2.9) 
between children born after spontaneous conception and children born to parents 
conceiving after fertility treatment. Similarly, there were no significant mean 
differences in intelligence (mean difference 0.6, 95% CI -2.2, 3.4), overall 
attention (0.1, 95% CI -0.2, 0.4), or parent-rated executive functions (1.0, 95% 
CI -1.8, 3.7) between children born after spontaneous conception and children 
born to subfertile parents waiting more than 12 months before conceiving 
naturally.
CONCLUSIONS: This study suggests that parental subfertility and fertility 
treatment are unrelated to offspring intelligence, attention and executive 
functions.

© 2014 Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists.

DOI: 10.1111/1471-0528.12907
PMID: 24910085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


854. J Anim Ecol. 2015 Jan;84(1):79-89. doi: 10.1111/1365-2656.12255. Epub 2014 Jul 
9.

Ecological generalism and behavioural innovation in birds: technical 
intelligence or the simple incorporation of new foods?

Ducatez S(1), Clavel J(2), Lefebvre L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, McGill University, 1205, avenue Docteur Penfield, 
Montréal, QC, H3A 1B1, Canada.
(2)Department of Environmental Sciences, Policy and Management, Division of 
Organisms and Environment, University of California, Berkeley, CA, 94720-3114, 
USA.

Generalist species are more successful than specialists in anthropogenically 
modified environments or in environments in which they have been introduced, but 
the nature of the link between generalism and establishment success is unclear. 
A higher feeding innovation rate has previously been reported in habitat 
generalist birds from North America. By allowing them to exploit new resources, 
this higher feeding innovation rate might explain the generalists' advantage. 
This result might be due to generalists being more likely to find new resources 
because they are exposed to more diverse environmental conditions. 
Alternatively, they might differ from specialists in other traits, in particular 
cognitive skills that might allow them to innovate more complex food searching 
and handling techniques. To test these hypotheses, we separated avian feeding 
innovations into a 'technical' (novel searching and handling behaviour) and a 
'food type' (incorporation of a new food in a species' diet) category. Technical 
innovations, but not food type innovations, have previously been shown to 
correlate with avian brain size, suggesting they reflect cognitive ability. We 
used a world-wide data base of 2339 feeding innovations recorded in the 
literature, covering a total of 765 avian species and assessed the correlations 
between brain size and feeding innovation rates on one side and habitat and diet 
generalism on the other. Habitat generalism was positively related with food 
type innovation rate, but not technical innovation rate or brain size. This 
suggests that habitat generalist species are more likely to incorporate new food 
types in their diet because of higher chances to find new food resources in 
their environment, or of a higher opportunism, but not enhanced cognitive 
skills. In contrast, diet generalist species had higher food type and technical 
innovation rates, as well as larger brains, suggesting that cognitive skills 
might help species expand their diet breadth or that an increase in diet breadth 
might favour the evolution of enhanced cognitive abilities. Our results provide 
new insights into the nature of the generalists' advantage in the face of 
environmental changes, and suggest that dietary and habitat generalism are 
different, but convergent, routes to feeding flexibility and adaptation to 
changed environments.

© 2014 The Authors. Journal of Animal Ecology © 2014 British Ecological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/1365-2656.12255
PMID: 24910268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


855. Environ Health Perspect. 2014 Oct;122(10):1123-8. doi: 10.1289/ehp.1307088. Epub 
2014 Jun 3.

Environmental tobacco smoke exposure and children's intelligence at 8-11 years 
of age.

Park S(1), Cho SC, Hong YC, Kim JW, Shin MS, Yoo HJ, Han DH, Cheong JH, Kim BN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Seoul National Hospital, Seoul, Republic of Korea.

BACKGROUND: Evidence supporting a link between postnatal environmental tobacco 
smoke (ETS) exposure and cognitive problems among children is mounting, but 
inconsistent.
OBJECTIVES: We examined the relationship between ETS exposure, measured using 
urine cotinine, and IQ scores in Korean school-aged children.
METHODS: The participants were 996 children 8-11 years of age recruited from 
five administrative regions in South Korea. We performed a cross-sectional 
analysis of urinary cotinine concentrations and IQ scores obtained using the 
abbreviated form of a Korean version of the Wechsler Intelligence Scales for 
Children. Associations were adjusted for potential confounders, and estimates 
were derived with and without adjustment for mother's Full-Scale IQ (FSIQ) 
score.
RESULTS: After adjusting for sociodemographic and developmental covariates, 
urinary cotinine concentrations were inversely associated with FSIQ, Verbal IQ 
(VIQ), Performance IQ (PIQ), vocabulary, math, and block design scores. 
Following further adjustment for maternal IQ, only the VIQ scores remained 
significantly associated with urinary cotinine concentration (B = -0.31; 95% CI: 
-0.60, -0.03 for a 1-unit increase in natural log-transformed urine cotinine 
concentration; p = 0.03).
CONCLUSION: Urine cotinine concentrations were inversely associated with 
children's VIQ scores before and after adjusting for maternal IQ. Further 
prospective studies with serial measurements of cotinine are needed to confirm 
our findings.

DOI: 10.1289/ehp.1307088
PMCID: PMC4181918
PMID: 24911003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare they have no actual or 
potential competing financial interests.


856. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2014 Jun 10;111(23):8392-7. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.1407083111. Epub 2014 May 27.

Chaos-order transition in foraging behavior of ants.

Li L(1), Peng H(2), Kurths J(3), Yang Y(4), Schellnhuber HJ(5).

Author information:
(1)Information Security Center, State Key Laboratory of Networking and Switching 
Technology, andPotsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research, D14473 Potsdam, 
Germany; and.
(2)Information Security Center, State Key Laboratory of Networking and Switching 
Technology, and kurths@pik-potsdam.de penghaipeng@bupt.edu.cn 
director@pik-potsdam.de.
(3)Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research, D14473 Potsdam, Germany; and 
kurths@pik-potsdam.de penghaipeng@bupt.edu.cn director@pik-potsdam.de.
(4)Information Security Center, State Key Laboratory of Networking and Switching 
Technology, andNational Engineering Laboratory for Disaster Backup and Recovery, 
Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications, Beijing 100876, China;
(5)Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research, D14473 Potsdam, Germany; 
andSanta Fe Institute, Santa Fe, NM 87501 kurths@pik-potsdam.de 
penghaipeng@bupt.edu.cn director@pik-potsdam.de.

The study of the foraging behavior of group animals (especially ants) is of 
practical ecological importance, but it also contributes to the development of 
widely applicable optimization problem-solving techniques. Biologists have 
discovered that single ants exhibit low-dimensional deterministic-chaotic 
activities. However, the influences of the nest, ants' physical abilities, and 
ants' knowledge (or experience) on foraging behavior have received relatively 
little attention in studies of the collective behavior of ants. This paper 
provides new insights into basic mechanisms of effective foraging for social 
insects or group animals that have a home. We propose that the whole foraging 
process of ants is controlled by three successive strategies: hunting, homing, 
and path building. A mathematical model is developed to study this complex 
scheme. We show that the transition from chaotic to periodic regimes observed in 
our model results from an optimization scheme for group animals with a home. 
According to our investigation, the behavior of such insects is not represented 
by random but rather deterministic walks (as generated by deterministic 
dynamical systems, e.g., by maps) in a random environment: the animals use their 
intelligence and experience to guide them. The more knowledge an ant has, the 
higher its foraging efficiency is. When young insects join the collective to 
forage with old and middle-aged ants, it benefits the whole colony in the long 
run. The resulting strategy can even be optimal.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1407083111
PMCID: PMC4060675
PMID: 24912159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


857. Eur J Paediatr Neurol. 2014 Nov;18(6):670-6. doi: 10.1016/j.ejpn.2014.05.004. 
Epub 2014 May 22.

Anterior corpus callosotomy in school-aged children with Lennox-Gastaut 
syndrome: a prospective study.

Liang S(1), Zhang S(2), Hu X(3), Zhang Z(4), Fu X(4), Jiang H(5), Xiaoman Y(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Capital Epilepsy Therapy Center, First Affiliated 
Hospital of Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA) General Hospital, Beijing, 
China. Electronic address: liangsl_304@sina.com.
(2)Capital Epilepsy Therapy Center, First Affiliated Hospital of PLA General 
Hospital, Beijing, China.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, First Affiliated Hospital of PLA General Hospital, 
Beijing, China.
(4)Department of Neurosurgery, First Affiliated Hospital of PLA General 
Hospital, Beijing, China.
(5)Department of Psychology, First Affiliated Hospital of PLA General Hospital, 
Beijing, China.

AIMS: To compare outcomes of anterior corpus callosotomy (CCT) with 
anti-epileptic drugs (AEDs) treatment in school-aged children with 
Lennox-Gastaut syndrome (LGS).
METHODS: Sixty school-aged children with LGS were prospectively enrolled and 
divided into either the medicine or surgery group according the choice of the 
patients' caregivers. Cases in the medicine group were treated with multiple 
rational AEDs and patients in the surgery group underwent anterior CCT. Seizure 
control at 1-5 years after enrollment and changes of intelligence quotient (IQ) 
and quality of life (QOL) from pre-treatment to the 2-year follow-up were 
compared between the two groups.
RESULTS: The percentages of patients who were totally seizure-free in the 
surgery group were 17.4% at the 1-year follow-up, 13.0% at the 2-year follow-up 
and 8.7% at the 5-year follow up, and the data for patients in the medicine 
group were 2.9%, 5.9% and 2.9%, respectively. Significant differences were found 
in total seizure control between the two groups at 1, 2, and 5-year follow-up 
(personal χ2 test). Significant differences were found in mean changes of IQ and 
overall QOL between the medicine and surgery groups at the 2-year follow-up, 
showing positive results for the surgery group, but these changes were not 
related to postoperative outcomes of seizure control (t-test).
CONCLUSION: Anterior CCT is a promising treatment for school-aged children with 
LGS, and can present marked seizure control and improvement in QOL and IQ, all 
of which were significantly better than the effects of treatment with multiple 
AEDs.

Copyright © 2014 European Paediatric Neurology Society. Published by Elsevier 
Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejpn.2014.05.004
PMID: 24912732 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


858. Dev Psychopathol. 2014 Nov;26(4 Pt 1):889-900. doi: 10.1017/S0954579414000522. 
Epub 2014 Jun 10.

Social attribution skills of children born preterm at very low birth weight.

Williamson KE(1), Jakobson LS(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Manitoba.

Children born prematurely at very low birth weight (<1500 g) are at increased 
risk for impairments affecting social functioning, including autism spectrum 
disorders (e.g., Johnson et al., 2010). In the current study, we used the 
Happé-Frith animated triangles task (Abell, Happé, & Frith, 2000) to study 
social attribution skills in this population. In this task, typical viewers 
attribute intentionality and mental states to shapes, based on characteristics 
of their movements. Participants included 34 preterm children and 36 full-term 
controls, aged 8-11 years. Groups were comparable in terms of age at test, 
gender, handedness, and socioeconomic status; they also performed similarly on 
tests of selective attention/processing speed and verbal intelligence. Relative 
to full-term peers, preterm children's descriptions of the animations were less 
appropriate overall; they also overattributed intentionality/mental states to 
randomly moving shapes and underattributed intentionality/mental states to 
shapes that seemed to be interacting socially. Impairments in the ability to 
infer the putative mental states of triangles from movement cues alone were most 
evident in children displaying more "autistic-like" traits, and this may reflect 
atypical development of and/or functioning in, or atypical connections between, 
parts of the social brain.

DOI: 10.1017/S0954579414000522
PMID: 24912737 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


859. Laryngoscope. 2014 Sep;124(9):2176-81. doi: 10.1002/lary.24746. Epub 2014 Jun 
10.

Bilateral hearing loss is associated with decreased nonverbal intelligence in US 
children aged 6 to 16 years.

Emmett SD(1), Francis HW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Johns Hopkins University 
School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland; Department of International Health, 
Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland, U.S.A.

OBJECTIVES/HYPOTHESIS: To evaluate the association between hearing loss and 
nonverbal intelligence in US children.
STUDY DESIGN: The Third National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES 
III) is a cross-sectional survey (1988-1994) that used complex multistage 
sampling design to produce nationally representative demographic and examination 
data.
METHODS: A total of 4,823 children ages 6 to 16 years completed audiometric 
evaluation and cognitive testing during NHANES III. Hearing loss was defined as 
low-frequency pure-tone average (PTA) >25 dB (0.5, 1, 2 kHz) or high-frequency 
PTA >25 dB (3, 4, 6, 8 kHz) and was designated as unilateral or bilateral. 
Nonverbal intelligence was measured using the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for 
Children-Revised block design subtest. Low nonverbal intelligence was defined as 
a standardized score <4, two standard deviations below the standardized mean of 
10.
RESULTS: Mean nonverbal intelligence scores differed between children with 
normal hearing (9.59) and children with bilateral (6.87; P = .02) but not 
unilateral (9.12; P = .42) hearing loss. Non-Hispanic black race/ethnicity and 
family income <$20,000 were associated with 3.92 and 1.67 times higher odds of 
low nonverbal intelligence, respectively (odds ratio [OR]: 3.92; P < .001; OR: 
1.67; P = .02). Bilateral hearing loss was independently associated with 5.77 
times increased odds of low nonverbal intelligence compared to normal hearing 
children (OR: 5.77; P = .02). Unilateral hearing loss was not associated with 
higher odds of low nonverbal intelligence (OR: 0.73; P = .40).
CONCLUSIONS: Bilateral but not unilateral hearing loss is associated with 
decreased nonverbal intelligence in US children. Longitudinal studies are 
urgently needed to better understand these associations and their potential 
impact on future opportunities.

© 2014 The American Laryngological, Rhinological and Otological Society, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/lary.24746
PMCID: PMC5844366
PMID: 24913183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: none


860. J Occup Med Toxicol. 2014 May 28;9:23. doi: 10.1186/1745-6673-9-23. eCollection 
2014.

Association between mental demands at work and cognitive functioning in the 
general population - results of the health study of the Leipzig research center 
for civilization diseases (LIFE).

Then FS(1), Luck T(1), Luppa M(2), Arélin K(3), Schroeter ML(3), Engel C(4), 
Löffler M(4), Thiery J(5), Villringer A(6), Riedel-Heller SG(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Social Medicine, Occupational Health and Public Health (ISAP), 
Medical Faculty, University of Leipzig, Philipp-Rosenthal-Str. 55, 04103 
Leipzig, Germany ; LIFE - Leipzig Research Center for Civilization Diseases, 
University of Leipzig, Leipzig, Germany.
(2)Institute of Social Medicine, Occupational Health and Public Health (ISAP), 
Medical Faculty, University of Leipzig, Philipp-Rosenthal-Str. 55, 04103 
Leipzig, Germany.
(3)LIFE - Leipzig Research Center for Civilization Diseases, University of 
Leipzig, Leipzig, Germany ; Max-Planck-Institute for Human Cognitive and Brain 
Sciences, Leipzig, and Clinic for Cognitive Neurology, University Hospital 
Leipzig, Leipzig, Germany.
(4)LIFE - Leipzig Research Center for Civilization Diseases, University of 
Leipzig, Leipzig, Germany ; Institute for Medical Informatics, Statistics and 
Epidemiology (IMISE), University of Leipzig, Leipzig, Germany.
(5)Institute of Laboratory Medicine, Clinical Chemistry and Molecular 
Diagnostics (ILM), University of Leipzig, Leipzig, Germany.
(6)Max-Planck-Institute for Human Cognitive and Brain Sciences, Leipzig, and 
Clinic for Cognitive Neurology, University Hospital Leipzig, Leipzig, Germany.

BACKGROUND: The level of mental demands in the workplace is rising. The present 
study investigated whether and how mental demands at work are associated with 
cognitive functioning in the general population.
METHODS: The analysis is based on data of the Health Study of the Leipzig 
Research Centre for Civilization Disease (LIFE). 2,725 participants aged 40-80 
years underwent cognitive testing (Trail-Making Test, Verbal Fluency Test) and 
provided information on their occupational situation. Participants over the age 
of 65 years additionally completed the Mini-Mental State Examination. Mental 
demands at work were rated by a standardized classification system (O*NET). The 
association between mental demands and cognitive functioning was analyzed using 
Generalized Linear Modeling (GENLIN) adjusted for age, gender, self-regulation, 
working hour status, education, and health-related factors.
RESULTS: Univariate as well as multivariate analyses demonstrated significant 
and highly consistent effects of higher mental demands on better performance in 
cognitive testing. The results also indicated that the effects are independent 
of education and intelligence. Moreover, analyses of retired individuals implied 
a significant association between high mental demands at work of the job they 
once held and a better cognitive functioning in old age.
CONCLUSIONS: In sum, our findings suggest a significant association between high 
mental demands at work and better cognitive functioning. In this sense, higher 
levels of mental demands - as brought about by technological changes in the 
working environment - may also have beneficial effects for the society as they 
could increase cognitive capacity levels and might even delay cognitive decline 
in old age.

DOI: 10.1186/1745-6673-9-23
PMCID: PMC4049483
PMID: 24914403


861. Acta Crystallogr D Biol Crystallogr. 2014 Jun;70(Pt 6):1538-48. doi: 
10.1107/S1399004714006427. Epub 2014 May 23.

CrowdPhase: crowdsourcing the phase problem.

Jorda J(1), Sawaya MR(1), Yeates TO(1).

Author information:
(1)UCLA-DOE, Institute for Genomics and Proteomics, 611 Charles Young Drive 
East, Los Angeles, CA 90095, USA.

The human mind innately excels at some complex tasks that are difficult to solve 
using computers alone. For complex problems amenable to parallelization, 
strategies can be developed to exploit human intelligence in a collective form: 
such approaches are sometimes referred to as `crowdsourcing'. Here, a first 
attempt at a crowdsourced approach for low-resolution ab initio phasing in 
macromolecular crystallography is proposed. A collaborative online game named 
CrowdPhase was designed, which relies on a human-powered genetic algorithm, 
where players control the selection mechanism during the evolutionary process. 
The algorithm starts from a population of `individuals', each with a random 
genetic makeup, in this case a map prepared from a random set of phases, and 
tries to cause the population to evolve towards individuals with better phases 
based on Darwinian survival of the fittest. Players apply their 
pattern-recognition capabilities to evaluate the electron-density maps generated 
from these sets of phases and to select the fittest individuals. A user-friendly 
interface, a training stage and a competitive scoring system foster a network of 
well trained players who can guide the genetic algorithm towards better 
solutions from generation to generation via gameplay. CrowdPhase was applied to 
two synthetic low-resolution phasing puzzles and it was shown that players could 
successfully obtain phase sets in the 30° phase error range and corresponding 
molecular envelopes showing agreement with the low-resolution models. The 
successful preliminary studies suggest that with further development the 
crowdsourcing approach could fill a gap in current crystallographic methods by 
making it possible to extract meaningful information in cases where limited 
resolution might otherwise prevent initial phasing.

DOI: 10.1107/S1399004714006427
PMCID: PMC4051500
PMID: 24914965 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


862. Dev Psychopathol. 2014 Nov;26(4 Pt 1):933-45. doi: 10.1017/S0954579414000479. 
Epub 2014 Jun 10.

Impairments in facial affect recognition associated with autism spectrum 
disorders: a meta-analysis.

Lozier LM(1), Vanmeter JW(1), Marsh AA(1).

Author information:
(1)Georgetown University.

Autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) are characterized by social impairments, 
including inappropriate responses to affective stimuli and nonverbal cues, which 
may extend to poor face-emotion recognition. However, the results of empirical 
studies of face-emotion recognition in individuals with ASD have yielded 
inconsistent findings that occlude understanding the role of face-emotion 
recognition deficits in the development of ASD. The goal of this meta-analysis 
was to address three as-yet unanswered questions. Are ASDs associated with 
consistent face-emotion recognition deficits? Do deficits generalize across 
multiple emotional expressions or are they limited to specific emotions? Do age 
or cognitive intelligence affect the magnitude of identified deficits? The 
results indicate that ASDs are associated with face-emotion recognition deficits 
across multiple expressions and that the magnitude of these deficits increases 
with age and cannot be accounted for by intelligence. These findings suggest 
that, whereas neurodevelopmental processes and social experience produce 
improvements in general face-emotion recognition abilities over time during 
typical development, children with ASD may experience disruptions in these 
processes, which suggested distributed functional impairment in the neural 
architecture that subserves face-emotion processing, an effect with downstream 
developmental consequences.

DOI: 10.1017/S0954579414000479
PMID: 24915526 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


863. Rev Alerg Mex. 2014 Apr-Jun;61(2):110-20.

[Artificial intelligence to assist clinical diagnosis in medicine].

[Article in Spanish; Abstract available in Spanish from the publisher]

Lugo-Reyes SO(1), Maldonado-Colín G, Murata C.

Author information:
(1)Unidad de Investigación en Inmunodeficiencias, Torre de Investigación, piso 
9, Instituto Nacional de Pediatría, Av. del Imán 1, 04530 México, DF. 
dr.lugo.reyes@gmail.com.

Medicine is one of the fields of knowledge that would most benefit from a closer 
interaction with Computer studies and Mathematics by optimizing complex, 
imperfect processes such as differential diagnosis; this is the domain of 
Machine Learning, a branch of Artificial Intelligence that builds and studies 
systems capable of learning from a set of training data, in order to optimize 
classification and prediction processes. In Mexico during the last few years, 
progress has been made on the implementation of electronic clinical records, so 
that the National Institutes of Health already have accumulated a wealth of 
stored data. For those data to become knowledge, they need to be processed and 
analyzed through complex statistical methods, as it is already being done in 
other countries, employing: case-based reasoning, artificial neural networks, 
Bayesian classifiers, multivariate logistic regression, or support vector 
machines, among other methodologies; to assist the clinical diagnosis of acute 
appendicitis, breast cancer and chronic liver disease, among a wide array of 
maladies. In this review we shift through concepts, antecedents, current 
examples and methodologies of machine learning-assisted clinical diagnosis.

Publisher: La medicina es uno de los campos del conocimiento que más podrían 
beneficiarse de una interacción cercana con la computación y las matemáticas, 
mediante la cual se optimizarían procesos complejos e imperfectos como el 
diagnóstico diferencial. De esto se ocupa el aprendizaje automático, rama de la 
inteligencia artificial que construye y estudia sistemas capaces de aprender a 
partir de un conjunto de datos de adiestramiento y de mejorar procesos de 
clasificación y predicción. En México, en los últimos años se ha avanzado en la 
implantación del expediente electrónico y los Institutos Nacionales de Salud 
cuentan con una riqueza de datos clínicos almacenada. Para que esos datos se 
conviertan en conocimiento, necesitan ser procesados y analizados a través de 
métodos estadísticos complejos, como ya se hace en otros países, usando: 
razonamiento basado en casos, redes neuronales artificiales, clasificadores 
bayesianos, regresión logística multivariante o máquinas de soporte vectorial, 
entre otros. Esto facilitará el diagnóstico clínico de padecimientos como: 
apendicitis aguda, cáncer de mama o hepatopatía crónica. En esta revisión se 
repasan conceptos, antecedentes, ejemplos y métodos de aprendizaje automático en 
diagnóstico clínico.

PMID: 24915623 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


864. Psychol Sci. 2014 Aug;25(8):1571-80. doi: 10.1177/0956797614535400. Epub 2014 
Jun 10.

Exploring Solomon's paradox: self-distancing eliminates the self-other asymmetry 
in wise reasoning about close relationships in younger and older adults.

Grossmann I(1), Kross E(2).

Author information:
(1)University of Waterloo igrossma@uwaterloo.ca.
(2)University of Michigan.

Are people wiser when reflecting on other people's problems compared with their 
own? If so, does self-distancing eliminate this asymmetry in wise reasoning? In 
three experiments (N = 693), participants displayed wiser reasoning (i.e., 
recognizing the limits of their knowledge and the importance of compromise and 
future change, considering other people's perspectives) about another person's 
problems compared with their own. Across Studies 2 and 3, instructing 
individuals to self-distance (rather than self-immerse) eliminated this 
asymmetry. Study 3 demonstrated that each of these effects was comparable for 
younger (20-40 years) and older (60-80 years) adults. Thus, contrary to the 
adage "with age comes wisdom," our findings suggest that there are no age 
differences in wise reasoning about personal conflicts, and that the effects of 
self-distancing generalize across age cohorts. These findings highlight the role 
that self-distancing plays in allowing people to overcome a pervasive asymmetry 
that characterizes wise reasoning.

© The Author(s) 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/0956797614535400
PMID: 24916084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


865. Front Hum Neurosci. 2014 Jun 2;8:389. doi: 10.3389/fnhum.2014.00389. eCollection 
2014.

Creativity, brain, and art: biological and neurological considerations.

Zaidel DW(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Behavioral Neuroscience, University of California 
at Los Angeles (UCLA) Los Angeles, CA, USA.

Creativity is commonly thought of as a positive advance for society that 
transcends the status quo knowledge. Humans display an inordinate capacity for 
it in a broad range of activities, with art being only one. Most work on 
creativity's neural substrates measures general creativity, and that is done 
with laboratory tasks, whereas specific creativity in art is gleaned from 
acquired brain damage, largely in observing established visual artists, and some 
in visual de novo artists (became artists after the damage). The verb "to 
create" has been erroneously equated with creativity; creativity, in the classic 
sense, does not appear to be enhanced following brain damage, regardless of 
etiology. The turning to communication through art in lieu of language deficits 
reflects a biological survival strategy. Creativity in art, and in other 
domains, is most likely dependent on intact and healthy knowledge and semantic 
conceptual systems, which are represented in several pathways in the cortex. It 
is adversely affected when these systems are dysfunctional, for congenital 
reasons (savant autism) or because of acquired brain damage (stroke, dementia, 
Parkinson's), whereas inherent artistic talent and skill appear less affected. 
Clues to the neural substrates of general creativity and specific art creativity 
can be gleaned from considering that art is produced spontaneously mainly by 
humans, that there are unique neuroanatomical and neurofunctional organizations 
in the human brain, and that there are biological antecedents of innovation in 
animals.

DOI: 10.3389/fnhum.2014.00389
PMCID: PMC4041074
PMID: 24917807


866. Codas. 2014 Mar-Apr;26(2):105-11. doi: 10.1590/2317-1782/2014494in.

Influence of memory, attention, IQ and age on auditory temporal processing 
tests: preliminary study.

[Article in English, Portuguese]

Murphy CF(1), Zachi EC(1), Roque DT(1), Ventura DS(1), Schochat E(1).

Author information:
(1)Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo, SP, Brazil.

PURPOSE: To investigate the existence of correlations between the performance of 
children in auditory temporal tests (Frequency Pattern and Gaps in Noise--GIN) 
and IQ, attention, memory and age measurements.
METHOD: Fifteen typically developing individuals between the ages of 7 to 12 
years and normal hearing participated in the study. Auditory temporal processing 
tests (GIN and Frequency Pattern), as well as a Memory test (Digit Span), 
Attention tests (auditory and visual modality) and intelligence tests (RAVEN 
test of Progressive Matrices) were applied.
RESULTS: Significant and positive correlation between the Frequency Pattern test 
and age variable were found, which was considered good (p<0.01, 75.6%). There 
were no significant correlations between the GIN test and the variables tested.
CONCLUSIONS: Auditory temporal skills seem to be influenced by different 
factors: while the performance in temporal ordering skill seems to be influenced 
by maturational processes, the performance in temporal resolution was not 
influenced by any of the aspects investigated.

DOI: 10.1590/2317-1782/2014494in
PMID: 24918502 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


867. Proc Biol Sci. 2014 Jul 22;281(1787):20140837. doi: 10.1098/rspb.2014.0837. Epub 
2014 Jun 11.

Of babies and birds: complex tool behaviours are not sufficient for the 
evolution of the ability to create a novel causal intervention.

Taylor AH(1), Cheke LG(2), Waismeyer A(3), Meltzoff AN(3), Miller R(4), Gopnik 
A(5), Clayton NS(2), Gray RD(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 3EB, UK 
Department of Psychology, University of Auckland, Private Bag 92019, Auckland, 
New Zealand alexander.taylor@auckland.ac.nz.
(2)Department of Psychology, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 3EB, UK.
(3)Institute for Learning and Brain Sciences, University of Washington, Seattle, 
WA, USA.
(4)Department of Cognitive Biology, University of Vienna, Althanstrasse 14, 1091 
Vienna, Austria.
(5)Department of Psychology, University of California, Berkeley, CA, USA.
(6)Department of Psychology, University of Auckland, Private Bag 92019, 
Auckland, New Zealand.

Comment in
    Proc Biol Sci. 2015 May 7;282(1806):20142504.
    Proc Biol Sci. 2015 Aug 22;282(1813):20150796.

Humans are capable of simply observing a correlation between cause and effect, 
and then producing a novel behavioural pattern in order to recreate the same 
outcome. However, it is unclear how the ability to create such causal 
interventions evolved. Here, we show that while 24-month-old children can 
produce an effective, novel action after observing a correlation, tool-making 
New Caledonian crows cannot. These results suggest that complex tool behaviours 
are not sufficient for the evolution of this ability, and that causal 
interventions can be cognitively and evolutionarily disassociated from other 
types of causal understanding.

© 2014 The Author(s) Published by the Royal Society. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1098/rspb.2014.0837
PMCID: PMC4071556
PMID: 24920476 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


868. J Aging Health. 2014 Sep;26(6):993-1014. doi: 10.1177/0898264314535633. Epub 
2014 Jun 11.

Factor structure, evolution, and predictive power of emotional competencies on 
physical and emotional health in the elderly.

Fantini-Hauwel C(1), Mikolajczak M(2).

Author information:
(1)Université Libre de Bruxelles, Belgium carole.fantini@ulb.ac.be.
(2)Université catholique de Louvain, Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium.

OBJECTIVE: Emotional competence (EC) has been found to be an important predictor 
of individuals' health. While it is well known that EC predicts important 
outcomes in young adults, its importance is less clear in the elderly. We aimed 
to address this gap: Is the structure of EC the same in older as in younger 
adults? How do EC evolve between 50 and 80 years old? Does the predictive power 
of EC, regarding physical and emotional adjustment, increase or decrease with 
age?
METHOD: A total of 6,688 participants filled subjective health and EC 
questionnaires. We gathered their medication consumption over the last 11 years, 
from the database of health insurance.
RESULTS: While the structure of ECs remains stable in older adults, it generally 
declines as people get older, except for emotion regulation, which improves with 
age. Results also show that EC predicts both physical and emotional health.
DISCUSSION: These results suggest that the development of specific interventions 
to improve EC may be useful for the elderly.

© The Author(s) 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/0898264314535633
PMID: 24920650 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


869. PLoS One. 2014 Jun 12;9(6):e90405. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0090405. 
eCollection 2014.

Multiparametric MRI characterization and prediction in autism spectrum disorder 
using graph theory and machine learning.

Zhou Y(1), Yu F(2), Duong T(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, United States of America.
(2)Research Imaging Institute, Departments of Ophthalmology, Radiology, 
Physiology, University of Texas Health Science Center, South Texas Veterans 
Health Care System, Department of Veterans Affairs, San Antonio, Texas, United 
States of America.

This study employed graph theory and machine learning analysis of 
multiparametric MRI data to improve characterization and prediction in autism 
spectrum disorders (ASD). Data from 127 children with ASD (13.5±6.0 years) and 
153 age- and gender-matched typically developing children (14.5±5.7 years) were 
selected from the multi-center Functional Connectome Project. Regional gray 
matter volume and cortical thickness increased, whereas white matter volume 
decreased in ASD compared to controls. Small-world network analysis of 
quantitative MRI data demonstrated decreased global efficiency based on gray 
matter cortical thickness but not with functional connectivity MRI (fcMRI) or 
volumetry. An integrative model of 22 quantitative imaging features was used for 
classification and prediction of phenotypic features that included the autism 
diagnostic observation schedule, the revised autism diagnostic interview, and 
intelligence quotient scores. Among the 22 imaging features, four (caudate 
volume, caudate-cortical functional connectivity and inferior frontal gyrus 
functional connectivity) were found to be highly informative, markedly improving 
classification and prediction accuracy when compared with the single imaging 
features. This approach could potentially serve as a biomarker in prognosis, 
diagnosis, and monitoring disease progression.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0090405
PMCID: PMC4055499
PMID: 24922325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


870. CNS Neurol Disord Drug Targets. 2014;13(6):1015-20. doi: 
10.2174/1871527313666140612103425.

Psychosocial stress but not exercise increases cortisol and reduces state 
anxiety levels in school classes - results from a stressor applicable in large 
group settings.

Wegner M, Müller-Alcazar A, Jäger A, Machado S, Arias-Carrión O, Budde H(1).

Author information:
(1)(Henning Budde) MSH Medical School Hamburg, Am Kaiserkai 1, 20457 Hamburg, 
Germany. henning.budde@medicalschool-hamburg.de.

Both, psychosocial stress and exercise in the past have been used as stressors 
to elevate saliva cortisol and change state anxiety levels. In the present 
study, high-school students at the age of 14 were randomly assigned to three 
experimental groups: (1) an exercise group (n = 18), that was running 15 minutes 
at a medium intensity level of 65-75% HRmax, (2) a psychosocial stress group (n 
= 19), and (3) a control group (n = 18). The psychosocial stress was induced to 
the students by completing a standardized intelligence test under the assumption 
that their IQ scores would be made public in class. Results display that only 
psychosocial stress but not exercise was able to significantly increase cortisol 
levels but decreased cognitive state anxiety in adolescents. The psychosocial 
stress protocol applied here is proposed for use in future stress studies with 
children or adolescents in group settings, e.g., in school.

DOI: 10.2174/1871527313666140612103425
PMID: 24923345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


871. Behav Modif. 2014 Mar;38(2):297-318. doi: 10.1177/0145445514537059. Epub 2014 
Jun 12.

A Comparison of Urge Intensity and the Probability of Tic Completion During Tic 
Freely and Tic Suppression Conditions.

Specht MW(1), Nicotra CM(2), Kelly LM(2), Woods DW(3), Ricketts EJ(3), 
Perry-Parrish C(2), Reynolds E(2), Hankinson J(2), Grados MA(2), Ostrander 
RS(2), Walkup JT(2).

Author information:
(1)Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore, MD, USA mspecht1@jhmi.edu.
(2)Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(3)University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, USA.

Tic-suppression-based treatments (TSBTs) represent a safe and effective 
treatment option for Chronic Tic Disorders (CTDs). Prior research has 
demonstrated that treatment naive youths with CTDs have the capacity to safely 
and effectively suppress tics for prolonged periods. It remains unclear how tic 
suppression is achieved. The current study principally examines how effective 
suppression is achieved and preliminary correlates of the ability to suppress 
tics. Twelve youths, ages 10 to 17 years, with moderate-to-marked CTDs 
participated in an alternating sequence of tic freely and reinforced tic 
suppression conditions during which urge intensity and tic frequency were 
frequently assessed. Probability of tics occurring was half as likely following 
high-intensity urges during tic suppression (31%) in contrast to low-intensity 
urges during tic freely conditions (60%). Age was not associated with ability to 
suppress. Intelligence indices were associated with or trended toward greater 
ability to suppress tics. Attention difficulties were not associated with 
ability to suppress but were associated with tic severity. In contrast to our 
"selective suppression" hypothesis, we found participants equally capable of 
suppressing their tics regardless of urge intensity during reinforced tic 
suppression. Tic suppression was achieved with an "across-the-board" effort to 
resist urges. Preliminary data suggest that ability to suppress may be 
associated with general cognitive variables rather than age, tic severity, urge 
severity, and attention. Treatment naive youths appear to possess a capacity for 
robust tic suppression. TSBTs may bolster these capacities and/or enable their 
broader implementation, resulting in symptom improvement.

© The Author(s) 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/0145445514537059
PMID: 24924158 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


872. J Biomed Inform. 2014 Oct;51:210-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jbi.2014.06.001. Epub 2014 
Jun 9.

Quality assessment of data discrimination using self-organizing maps.

Mekler A(1), Schwarz D(2).

Author information:
(1)The Bonch-Bruevich Saint-Petersburg State University of Telecommunications, 
61, Moika, 191186 Saint-Petersburg, Russia. Electronic address: 
mekler@yandex.ru.
(2)The Bonch-Bruevich Saint-Petersburg State University of Telecommunications, 
61, Moika, 191186 Saint-Petersburg, Russia.

MOTIVATION: One of the important aspects of the data classification problem lies 
in making the most appropriate selection of features. The set of variables 
should be small and, at the same time, should provide reliable discrimination of 
the classes. The method for the discriminating power evaluation that enables a 
comparison between different sets of variables will be useful in the search for 
the set of variables.
RESULTS: A new approach to feature selection is presented. Two methods of 
evaluation of the data discriminating power of a feature set are suggested. Both 
of the methods implement self-organizing maps (SOMs) and the newly introduced 
exponents of the degree of data clusterization on the SOM. The first method is 
based on the comparison of intraclass and interclass distances on the map. 
Another method concerns the evaluation of the relative number of best matching 
unit's (BMUs) nearest neighbors of the same class. Both methods make it possible 
to evaluate the discriminating power of a feature set in cases when this set 
provides nonlinear discrimination of the classes.
AVAILABILITY: Current algorithms in program code can be downloaded for free at 
http://mekler.narod.ru/Science/Articles_support.html, as well as the supporting 
data files.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbi.2014.06.001
PMID: 24924268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


873. Front Hum Neurosci. 2014 Jun 4;8:392. doi: 10.3389/fnhum.2014.00392. eCollection 
2014.

Rhythm perception and production predict reading abilities in developmental 
dyslexia.

Flaugnacco E(1), Lopez L(2), Terribili C(2), Zoia S(3), Buda S(2), Tilli S(2), 
Monasta L(4), Montico M(4), Sila A(5), Ronfani L(4), Schön D(6).

Author information:
(1)Child Neurology and Psychiatry Ward, Institute for Maternal and Child Health 
- IRCCS Burlo Garofolo Pediatric Institute Trieste, Italy ; Center for the Child 
Health - Onlus Trieste, Italy.
(2)Developmental Neuropsychiatry Ward, Villaggio Eugenio Litta Rome, Italy.
(3)Child Neurology and Psychiatry Ward, Institute for Maternal and Child Health 
- IRCCS Burlo Garofolo Pediatric Institute Trieste, Italy.
(4)Epidemiology and Biostatistics Unit, Institute for Maternal and Child Health 
- IRCCS Burlo Garofolo Pediatric Institute Trieste, Italy.
(5)Center for the Child Health - Onlus Trieste, Italy.
(6)Institut de Neurosciences des Systémes, Aix-Marseille Université Marseille, 
France ; INSERM, U1106 Marseille, France.

Rhythm organizes events in time and plays a major role in music, but also in the 
phonology and prosody of a language. Interestingly, children with developmental 
dyslexia-a learning disability that affects reading acquisition despite normal 
intelligence and adequate education-have a poor rhythmic perception. It has been 
suggested that an accurate perception of rhythmical/metrical structure, that 
requires accurate perception of rise time, may be critical for phonological 
development and subsequent literacy. This hypothesis is mostly based on results 
showing a high degree of correlation between phonological awareness and metrical 
skills, using a very specific metrical task. We present new findings from the 
analysis of a sample of 48 children with a diagnosis of dyslexia, without 
comorbidities. These children were assessed with neuropsychological tests, as 
well as specifically-devised psychoacoustic and musical tasks mostly testing 
temporal abilities. Associations were tested by multivariate analyses including 
data mining strategies, correlations and most importantly logistic regressions 
to understand to what extent the different auditory and musical skills can be a 
robust predictor of reading and phonological skills. Results show a strong link 
between several temporal skills and phonological and reading abilities. These 
findings are discussed in the framework of the neuroscience literature comparing 
music and language processing, with a particular interest in the links between 
rhythm processing in music and language.

DOI: 10.3389/fnhum.2014.00392
PMCID: PMC4045153
PMID: 24926248


874. Dev Med Child Neurol. 2014 Jun;56(6):587-94. doi: 10.1111/dmcn.12295.

Motor impairment in very preterm-born children: links with other developmental 
deficits at 5 years of age.

Van Hus JW, Potharst ES, Jeukens-Visser M, Kok JH, Van Wassenaer-Leemhuis AG.

Comment in
    Dev Med Child Neurol. 2014 Jun;56(6):514-5.

AIM: To elucidate the relation between motor impairment and other developmental 
deficits in very preterm-born children without disabling cerebral palsy and 
term-born comparison children at 5 years of (corrected) age.
METHOD: In a prospective cohort study, 165 children (81 very preterm-born and 84 
term-born)were assessed with the Movement Assessment Battery for Children - 2nd 
edition, Touwen’s neurological examination, the Wechsler Preschool and Primary 
Scale of Intelligence, processing speed and visuomotor coordination tasks of the 
Amsterdam Neuropsychological Tasks, and the Strengths and Difficulties 
Questionnaire.
RESULTS: Motor impairment (≤15th centile) occurred in 32% of the very 
preterm-born children compared with 11% of their term-born peers (p=0.001). Of 
the very preterm-born children with motor impairment, 58% had complex minor 
neurological dysfunctions, 54% had low IQ, 69% had slow processing speed, 58% 
had visuomotor coordination problems, and 27%, 50%,and 46% had conduct, 
emotional, and hyperactivity problems respectively. Neurological outcome (odds 
ratio [OR]=41.7, 95% confidence intervals [CI] 7.5–232.5) and Full-scale 
IQ(OR=7.3, 95% CI 1.9–27.3) were significantly and independently associated with 
motor impairment. Processing speed (OR=4.6, 95% CI 1.8–11.6) and attention 
(OR=3.2, 95% CI1.3–7.9) were additional variables associated with impaired 
manual dexterity. These four developmental deficits mediated the relation 
between preterm birth and motor impairment.
INTERPRETATION: Complex minor neurological dysfunctions, low IQ, slow processing 
speed,and hyperactivity/inattention should be taken into account when very 
preterm-born children are referred for motor impairment.

DOI: 10.1111/dmcn.12295
PMID: 24926490 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


875. Brain Inj. 2014;28(10):1257-61. doi: 10.3109/02699052.2014.901557. Epub 2014 Jun 
13.

Relation between cognition and neural connection from injured cingulum to 
brainstem cholinergic nuclei in chronic patients with traumatic brain injury.

Yoo JS(1), Kim OL, Kim SH, Kim MS, Jang SH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation and.

BACKGROUND: This study investigated the relation between cognition and the 
neural connection from injured cingulum to brainstem cholinergic nuclei in 
patients with traumatic brain injury (TBI), using diffusion tensor tractography 
(DTT).
METHODS: Among 353 patients with TBI, 20 chronic patients who showed 
discontinuation of both anterior cingulums from the basal forebrain on DTT were 
recruited for this study. The Wechsler Intelligence Scale and the Memory 
Assessment Scale (MAS; short-term, verbal, visual and total memory) were used 
for assessment of cognition. Patients were divided into two groups according to 
the presence of a neural connection between injured cingulum and brainstem 
cholinergic nuclei.
RESULTS: Eight patients who had a neural connection between injured cingulum and 
brainstem cholinergic nuclei showed better short-term memory on MAS than 12 
patients who did not (p < 0.05). However, other results of neuropsychological 
testing showed no significant difference (p > 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Better short-term memory in patients who had the neural connection 
between injured cingulum and brainstem cholinergic nuclei appears to have been 
attributed to the presence of cholinergic innervation to the cerebral cortex 
through the neural connection instead of the injured anterior cingulum. The 
neural connection appears to compensate for the injured anterior cingulum in 
obtaining cholinergic innervation.

DOI: 10.3109/02699052.2014.901557
PMID: 24926814 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


876. Appl Neuropsychol Adult. 2015;22(2):94-9. doi: 10.1080/23279095.2013.860602. 
Epub 2014 Jun 13.

Age-related difference in relationships between cognitive processing speed and 
general cognitive status.

Tam HM(1), Lam CL, Huang H, Wang B, Lee TM.

Author information:
(1)a Laboratory of Neuropsychology, Laboratory of Cognitive Affective 
Neuroscience, and Institute of Clinical Neuropsychology , The University of Hong 
Kong , Hong Kong.

General cognitive status (GCS) is a composite of cognitive abilities reflecting 
full function. The literature suggests a relationship between cognitive 
processing speed and GCS, as well as age-related changes of processing speed on 
cognitive performance. Therefore, this study recruited 34 younger and 39 older 
adults to verify age-related differences in relationships between cognitive 
processing speed and GCS. We measured cognitive processing speed with the 
Processing Speed Index of the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale. Findings 
indicated that cognitive processing speed predicted GCS in older but not younger 
adults. Future research may be needed to verify the training effect of 
processing speed on GCS. This study also further examined cognitive factors 
related to processing speed in aging and the relationships between cognitive 
processing speed and verbal fluency, cognitive inhibition, and divided 
attention. A stepwise regression analysis indicated that only verbal fluency 
contributed significantly to cognitive processing speed in older adults, 
accounting for 21% of the variance. These observations suggest that age-related 
changes of prefrontal regions may not fully explain age-related decline in 
cognitive processing speed.

DOI: 10.1080/23279095.2013.860602
PMID: 24927241 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


877. Res Dev Disabil. 2014 Sep;35(9):2224-30. doi: 10.1016/j.ridd.2014.05.013. Epub 
2014 Jun 11.

Differences in the intellectual profile of children with intellectual vs. 
learning disability.

Cornoldi C(1), Giofrè D(2), Orsini A(3), Pezzuti L(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of General Psychology, University of Padua, Italy; President of 
the Italian Association for Learning Disabilities (AIRIPA), Italy.
(2)Department of General Psychology, University of Padua, Italy. Electronic 
address: david.giofre@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Psychology, Sapienza University of Rome, Italy.
(4)Department of Clinical Psychology, Sapienza University of Rome, Italy.

The WISC-IV was used to compare the intellectual profile of two groups of 
children, one with specific learning disorders (SLDs), the other with 
intellectual disabilities (ID), with a view to identifying which of the four 
main factor indexes and two additional indexes can distinguish between the 
groups. We collected information on WISC-IV scores for 267 children (Mage=10.61 
[SD=2.51], range 6-16 years, females=99) with a diagnosis of either SLD or ID. 
Children with SLD performed better than those with ID in all measures. Only the 
SLD children, not the ID children, revealed significant differences in the four 
main factor indexes, and their scores for the additional General Ability Index 
(GAI) were higher than for the Cognitive Proficiency Index (CPI). Children with 
a diagnosis of SLD whose Full-Scale Intelligence Quotient (FSIQ) was <85 showed 
a similar pattern. Our findings confirm the hypothesis that children with SLD 
generally obtain high GAI scores, but have specific deficiencies relating to 
working memory and processing speed, whereas children with ID have a general 
intellectual impairment. These findings have important diagnostic and clinical 
implications and should be considered when making diagnostic decisions in 
borderline cognitive cases.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ridd.2014.05.013
PMID: 24927516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


878. J Trop Pediatr. 2014 Oct;60(5):358-62. doi: 10.1093/tropej/fmu029. Epub 2014 Jun 
13.

Cognitive and behaviour dysfunction of children with neurocysticercosis: a 
cross-sectional study.

Prasad R(1), Shambhavi(2), Mishra OP(2), Upadhyay SK(2), Singh TB(3), Singh 
UK(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Institute of Medical Sciences, Banaras Hindu 
University, Varanasi-221005, India rajnitip@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, Institute of Medical Sciences, Banaras Hindu 
University, Varanasi-221005, India.
(3)Department of Biostatistics, Institute of Medical Sciences, Banaras Hindu 
University, Varanasi-221005, India.
(4)Department of Pediatrics, Nalanda Medical College, Patna 800013, Bihar, 
India.

Eighty-three confirmed cases of neurocysticercosis diagnosed as per modified 
delBrutto criteria were enrolled in the study (Group-I) to observe cognitive and 
behavioural changes. Controls consisted of two groups: children with idiopathic 
generalized tonic-clonic seizure (Group-II) and normal children with 
non-specific cough (Group-III). Cases and controls were subjected to cognitive 
and behaviour assessment. There was significant difference in the intelligence 
quotient (IQ) of cases in domains of visual perception, immediate recall, 
analysis synthesis and reasoning, verbal ability, memory and spatial ability. In 
the age group of 6-18 years, cases had significantly more behaviour problems 
than control without seizure, in domains of anxious depressed, withdrawn 
depressed, somatic problems, social problems and rule-breaking behaviour. 
Neurocysticercosis causes decline in cognitive function and behaviours in older 
children, which should be recognized early for appropriate management and to 
avoid undue parental anxiety.

© The Author [2014]. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. 
For Permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/tropej/fmu029
PMID: 24929075 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


879. Hum Brain Mapp. 2014 Oct;35(10):5127-40. doi: 10.1002/hbm.22538. Epub 2014 Jun 
13.

Same task, different strategies: how brain networks can be influenced by memory 
strategy.

Sanfratello L(1), Caprihan A, Stephen JM, Knoefel JE, Adair JC, Qualls C, Lundy 
SL, Aine CJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, University of New Mexico School of Medicine, 
Albuquerque, New Mexico.

Previous functional neuroimaging studies demonstrated that different neural 
networks underlie different types of cognitive processing by engaging 
participants in particular tasks, such as verbal or spatial working memory (WM) 
tasks. However, we report here that even when a WM task is defined as verbal or 
spatial, different types of memory strategies may be used to complete it, with 
concomitant variations in brain activity. We developed a questionnaire to 
characterize the type of strategy used by individual members in a group of 28 
young healthy participants (18-25 years) during a spatial WM task. A cluster 
analysis was performed to differentiate groups. We acquired functional 
magnetoencephalography and structural diffusion tensor imaging measures to 
characterize the brain networks associated with the use of different strategies. 
We found two types of strategies were used during the spatial WM task, a 
visuospatial and a verbal strategy, and brain regions and time courses of 
activation differed between participants who used each. Task performance also 
varied by type of strategy used with verbal strategies showing an advantage. In 
addition, performance on neuropsychological tests (indices from Wechsler Adult 
Intelligence Scale-IV, Rey Complex Figure Test) correlated significantly with 
fractional anisotropy measures for the visuospatial strategy group in white 
matter tracts implicated in other WM and attention studies. We conclude that 
differences in memory strategy can have a pronounced effect on the locations and 
timing of brain activation and that these differences need further investigation 
as a possible confounding factor for studies using group averaging as a means 
for summarizing results.

Copyright © 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/hbm.22538
PMCID: PMC4315666
PMID: 24931401 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


880. Expert Rev Neurother. 2014 Jul;14(7):819-31. doi: 10.1586/14737175.2014.928203. 
Epub 2014 Jun 14.

Concepts and controversies of juvenile myoclonic epilepsy: still an enigmatic 
epilepsy.

Koepp MJ(1), Thomas RH, Wandschneider B, Berkovic SF, Schmidt D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical and Experimental Epilepsy, University College London - 
Institute of Neurology, 33 Queen Square, London WC1N 3BG, UK.

Juvenile myoclonic epilepsy (JME) is a clinically and genetically heterogenous, 
generalized epilepsy syndrome usually starting in adolescence. An age-related, 
predominantly frontocortical-subcortical network dysfunction is likely to be the 
substrate of bilateral myoclonic seizures occurring at full consciousness within 
hours after awakening, which are the clinical hallmark of JME. Although 
essential features of JME were recognized by Herpin more than 140 years ago, it 
is still an enigmatic epilepsy syndrome in many ways; advanced imaging 
techniques reveal multi-focal abnormalities in this paradigmatic generalized 
epilepsy syndrome; clinical studies reveal a major role of genetics in etiology, 
but the underlying molecular changes are likely to be highly heterogeneous; many 
JME patients have psycho-social issues, even though their intelligence is 
normal; antiepileptic drugs (AEDs), notably valproic acid, achieve seizure 
remission in two thirds of patients, but more patients seem to relapse after 
stopping AEDs than in any other epilepsy syndrome. This pessimistic outlook has 
been challenged in recent population-based studies and needs to be assessed in 
randomized AED withdrawal trials. This review summarizes recent focus 
neuroimaging, genetic, and behavioral aspects of JME and re-appraises the 
entrenched view that remission off AEDs is exceptionally rare in JME.

DOI: 10.1586/14737175.2014.928203
PMID: 24931665 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


881. Attach Hum Dev. 2014;16(5):417-36. doi: 10.1080/14616734.2014.926946. Epub 2014 
Jun 16.

Mothers with intellectual disability, their experiences of maltreatment, and 
their children's attachment representations: a small-group matched comparison 
study.

Granqvist P(1), Forslund T, Fransson M, Springer L, Lindberg L.

Author information:
(1)a Department of Psychology , Stockholm University , Sweden.

Maternal intellectual disability (ID) is regarded a risk factor in child 
development, but there is no scientific evidence on maternal ID in relation to 
children's attachment. Using a matched comparison design, a small group (n = 23) 
of mothers diagnosed with ID was studied to help fill this gap. Besides maternal 
ID, we examined the role of abuse/trauma/maltreatment (ATM) in the mothers' 
biographies, along with potential confounds. Comparison group mothers (n = 25) 
had normal variations in intelligence and matched mothers with ID on residential 
area, income, child age, and sex. History of maternal ATM was assessed using a 
semi-structured interview and was found to be significantly more likely in the 
ID group mothers' experience than the comparison group mothers. Children's (M 
age = 77 months) attachment representations were assessed with the Separation 
Anxiety Test. Among children of mothers with ID, a substantial minority (35%) 
had a secure and the vast majority (>80%) an organized attachment 
representation. Mothers with ID who had suffered elevated ATM were significantly 
more likely to have children who were scored high on disorganization and 
insecurity. We discuss possible implications of our findings for societal 
considerations regarding parenting and child attachment in the context of 
parental ID status.

DOI: 10.1080/14616734.2014.926946
PMID: 24931835 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


882. J Nerv Ment Dis. 2014 Jul;202(7):530-8. doi: 10.1097/NMD.0000000000000154.

Psychiatrists' views of the genetic bases of mental disorders and behavioral 
traits and their use of genetic tests.

Klitzman R(1), Abbate KJ, Chung WK, Marder K, Ottman R, Taber KJ, Leu CS, 
Appelbaum PS.

Author information:
(1)*Columbia University Medical Center, New York, NY; †American Medical 
Association, Chicago, IL; ‡HIV Center for Clinical and Behavioral Studies, 
Columbia University; and §New York State Psychiatric Institute, New York, NY.

We examined how 372 psychiatrists view genetic aspects of mental disorders and 
behaviors and use genetic tests (GTs). Most thought that the genetic 
contribution was moderate/high for bipolar disorder, schizophrenia, depression, 
Alzheimer's, intelligence, creativity, anxiety, and suicidality. In the past 6 
months, 14.1% ordered GTs, 18.3% discussed prenatal testing with patients, 36.0% 
initiated discussions about other GTs, 41.6% had patients ask about GTs, and 
5.3% excluded GT results from patient records. Many thought that GTs; were 
available for schizophrenia (24.3%) and major depression (19.6%). Women were 
more likely to report that patients asked about GTs; and were less certain about 
the degree of genetic contribution to several disorders. Psychiatrists perceive 
strong genetic bases for numerous disorders and traits, and many have discussed 
and ordered tests for GTs, but have relatively limited knowledge about available 
tests. These data suggest possible sex differences in psychiatrists' beliefs 
about genetic contributions to disorders and have implications for future 
research, education, policy, and care.

DOI: 10.1097/NMD.0000000000000154
PMCID: PMC4298352
PMID: 24933415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest The authors had no 
affiliations, nor did they perform actions, that might be regarded as potential 
conflicts of interest during the grant funding, data collection, or manuscript 
preparation stages of their work.


883. Neuropsychologia. 2014 Jul;60:121-30. doi: 
10.1016/j.neuropsychologia.2014.06.003. Epub 2014 Jun 13.

Verbal learning and memory in agenesis of the corpus callosum.

Erickson RL(1), Paul LK(2), Brown WS(3).

Author information:
(1)The Travis Research Institute, Fuller Graduate School of Psychology, 180 N. 
Oakland Avenue, Pasadena, CA 91101, USA.
(2)Division of Humanities and Social Sciences, California Institute of 
Technology, MC 228-77, Pasadena, CA 91125, USA.
(3)The Travis Research Institute, Fuller Graduate School of Psychology, 180 N. 
Oakland Avenue, Pasadena, CA 91101, USA. Electronic address: wsbrown@fuller.edu.

The role of interhemispheric interactions in the encoding, retention, and 
retrieval of verbal memory can be clarified by assessing individuals with 
complete or partial agenesis of the corpus callosum (AgCC), but who have normal 
intelligence. This study assessed verbal learning and memory in AgCC using the 
California Verbal Learning Test-Second Edition (CVLT-II). Twenty-six individuals 
with AgCC were compared to 24 matched controls on CVLT-II measures, as well as 
Donders׳ four CVLT-II factors (i.e., Attention Span, Learning Efficiency, 
Delayed Memory, and Inaccurate Memory). Individuals with AgCC performed 
significantly below healthy controls on the Delayed Memory factor, confirmed by 
significant deficits in short and long delayed free recall and cued recall. They 
also performed less well in original learning. Deficient performance by 
individuals with AgCC during learning trials, as well as deficits in all forms 
of delayed memory, suggest that the corpus callosum facilitates interhemispheric 
elaboration and encoding of verbal information.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuropsychologia.2014.06.003
PMCID: PMC4337878
PMID: 24933663 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


884. J Pediatr Psychol. 2014 Aug;39(7):687-96. doi: 10.1093/jpepsy/jsu043. Epub 2014 
Jun 16.

Longitudinal trajectories of illness perceptions among adolescents with type 1 
diabetes.

Fortenberry KT(1), Berg CA(2), King PS(2), Stump T(2), Butler JM(2), Pham PK(2), 
Wiebe DJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Utah and Division of Psychology, 
Department of Psychiatry, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center at 
Dallas katherine.fortenberry@hsc.utah.edu.
(2)Department of Psychology, University of Utah and Division of Psychology, 
Department of Psychiatry, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center at 
Dallas.

OBJECTIVES: To examine development in illness perceptions of type 1 diabetes 
across adolescence and relationships with intelligence, diabetes responsibility, 
and diabetes outcomes.
METHODS: Illness perceptions were measured via the Illness Perceptions 
Questionnaire at 3 times, every 6 months in 213 adolescents (M age = 13.00; SD = 
1.54) with type 1 diabetes. Intelligence and adolescents' perceived 
responsibility for diabetes were examined, and adolescents' report of adherence 
and quality of life (QOL), and glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c) from medical 
records addressed diabetes-related outcomes.
RESULTS: Linear growth models showed significant increases in perceptions of 
diabetes coherence, chronicity, consequences, personal and treatment control, 
and decreases in diabetes cyclicality and parental control across time. More 
favorable illness perceptions were generally associated with adolescent 
intelligence at baseline, more adolescent responsibility for management, better 
adherence and QOL, and lower HbA1c at each time point.
CONCLUSIONS: Results suggest that adolescents develop complex illness 
perceptions, which are associated with better diabetes management.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society 
of Pediatric Psychology. All rights reserved. For permissions, please e-mail: 
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jpepsy/jsu043
PMCID: PMC4161993
PMID: 24934247 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


885. Semin Fetal Neonatal Med. 2014 Aug;19(4):245-9. doi: 10.1016/j.siny.2014.04.003. 
Epub 2014 Jun 13.

I was born following ART: how will I get on at school?

Abdel-Mannan O(1), Sutcliffe A(2).

Author information:
(1)General and Adolescent Paediatric Unit, Institute of Child Health, London, 
UK. Electronic address: o.abdel-mannan@ucl.ac.uk.
(2)General and Adolescent Paediatric Unit, Institute of Child Health, London, 
UK.

With an ever-expanding population of children born after in-vitro fertilisation 
(IVF), the widespread use of assisted reproductive techniques (ART) has placed a 
great emphasis on the need to study their long-term outcomes. Indeed, there has 
been concern that mechanisms used in ART may have a detrimental effect on the 
neurocognitive development of these children. Reassuringly, most neurocognitive 
and motor development studies using various assessment scales have generally 
found no differences between intracytoplasmic sperm injection, IVF and naturally 
conceived children. Only a few studies have reported concerns. In terms of 
predictors of intelligence in children, ART appears to have a minimal effect in 
comparison to birth weight, gestational age, socio-economic status, and parental 
educational levels. Nevertheless, further research of higher methodological 
quality in children beyond pre-school age and on newer ART procedures is needed.

Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.siny.2014.04.003
PMID: 24935910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


886. Neuroimage Clin. 2014 Feb 19;4:604-14. doi: 10.1016/j.nicl.2014.02.001. 
eCollection 2014.

Associations between white matter microstructure and amyloid burden in 
preclinical Alzheimer's disease: A multimodal imaging investigation.

Racine AM(1), Adluru N(2), Alexander AL(3), Christian BT(4), Okonkwo OC(5), Oh 
J(5), Cleary CA(5), Birdsill A(1), Hillmer AT(6), Murali D(4), Barnhart TE(7), 
Gallagher CL(5), Carlsson CM(5), Rowley HA(8), Dowling NM(5), Asthana S(9), 
Sager MA(10), Bendlin BB(5), Johnson SC(11).

Author information:
(1)Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin School of 
Medicine and Public Health, Madison, WI 53705, USA.
(2)Waisman Laboratory for Brain Imaging and Behavior, University of 
Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI 53705, USA.
(3)Department of Medical Physics, University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and 
Public Health, Madison, WI 53705, USA ; Waisman Laboratory for Brain Imaging and 
Behavior, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI 53705, USA ; Department 
of Psychiatry, University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health, 
Madison, WI 53719, USA.
(4)Department of Medical Physics, University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and 
Public Health, Madison, WI 53705, USA ; Waisman Laboratory for Brain Imaging and 
Behavior, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI 53705, USA.
(5)Geriatric Research Education and Clinical Center, Wm. S. Middleton Veterans 
Hospital, Madison, WI 53705, USA ; Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, 
University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health, Madison, WI 53705, 
USA.
(6)Department of Medical Physics, University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and 
Public Health, Madison, WI 53705, USA ; Department of Psychiatry, University of 
Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health, Madison, WI 53719, USA.
(7)Department of Medical Physics, University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and 
Public Health, Madison, WI 53705, USA.
(8)Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin School of 
Medicine and Public Health, Madison, WI 53705, USA ; Department of Radiology, 
University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health, Madison, WI 53705, 
USA.
(9)Geriatric Research Education and Clinical Center, Wm. S. Middleton Veterans 
Hospital, Madison, WI 53705, USA ; Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, 
University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health, Madison, WI 53705, 
USA ; Wisconsin Alzheimer's Institute, University of Wisconsin School of 
Medicine and Public Health, Madison, WI 53705, USA.
(10)Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin School of 
Medicine and Public Health, Madison, WI 53705, USA ; Wisconsin Alzheimer's 
Institute, University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health, 
Madison, WI 53705, USA.
(11)Geriatric Research Education and Clinical Center, Wm. S. Middleton Veterans 
Hospital, Madison, WI 53705, USA ; Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, 
University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health, Madison, WI 53705, 
USA ; Wisconsin Alzheimer's Institute, University of Wisconsin School of 
Medicine and Public Health, Madison, WI 53705, USA ; Waisman Laboratory for 
Brain Imaging and Behavior, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI 53705, 
USA.

Some cognitively healthy individuals develop brain amyloid accumulation, 
suggestive of incipient Alzheimer's disease (AD), but the effect of amyloid on 
other potentially informative imaging modalities, such as Diffusion Tensor 
Imaging (DTI), in characterizing brain changes in preclinical AD requires 
further exploration. In this study, a sample (N = 139, mean age 60.6, range 46 
to 71) from the Wisconsin Registry for Alzheimer's Prevention (WRAP), a cohort 
enriched for AD risk factors, was recruited for a multimodal imaging 
investigation that included DTI and [C-11]Pittsburgh Compound B (PiB) positron 
emission tomography (PET). Participants were grouped as amyloid positive (Aβ+), 
amyloid indeterminate (Aβi), or amyloid negative (Aβ-) based on the amount and 
pattern of amyloid deposition. Regional voxel-wise analyses of four DTI metrics, 
fractional anisotropy (FA), mean diffusivity (MD), axial diffusivity (Da), and 
radial diffusivity (Dr), were performed based on amyloid grouping. Three regions 
of interest (ROIs), the cingulum adjacent to the corpus callosum, hippocampal 
cingulum, and lateral fornix, were selected based on their involvement in the 
early stages of AD. Voxel-wise analysis revealed higher FA among Aβ+ compared to 
Aβ- in all three ROIs and in Aβi compared to Aβ- in the cingulum adjacent to the 
corpus callosum. Follow-up exploratory whole-brain analyses were consistent with 
the ROI findings, revealing multiple regions where higher FA was associated with 
greater amyloid. Lower fronto-lateral gray matter MD was associated with higher 
amyloid burden. Further investigation showed a negative correlation between MD 
and PiB signal, suggesting that Aβ accumulation impairs diffusion. 
Interestingly, these findings in a largely presymptomatic sample are in 
contradistinction to relationships reported in the literature in symptomatic 
disease stages of Mild Cognitive Impairment and AD, which usually show higher MD 
and lower FA. Together with analyses showing that cognitive function in these 
participants is not associated with any of the four DTI metrics, the present 
results suggest an early relationship between PiB and DTI, which may be a 
meaningful indicator of the initiating or compensatory mechanisms of AD prior to 
cognitive decline.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nicl.2014.02.001
PMCID: PMC4053642
PMID: 24936411 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


887. J Reprod Med. 2014 May-Jun;59(5-6):279-84.

Emotional intelligence characteristics in a cohort of faculty, residents, and 
medical students.

Ogunyemi D, Mehta S, Turner A, Kim D, Alexander C.

OBJECTIVE: To assess emotional intelligence (EQ) and the construct validity of 
the EQ Appraisal survey among academic faculty, residents, and medical students.
STUDY DESIGN: From 2007 to 2011, 155 medical education personnel participated in 
4 self-administered surveys. The EQ Appraisal survey measures Self-Awareness, 
Self-Management, Social Awareness, and Relationship Management. The DISC survey 
defines 4 personality domains: Dominance, Influence, Steadiness/ Submissiveness, 
and Conscientious/Compliance. The Thomas-Kilmann Conflict Instrument defines 5 
conflict styles: Competing, Collaborating, Compromising, Accommodating, and 
Avoiding. The Interpersonal Influence Inventory categorizes 4 behavior styles: 
Openly Aggressive, Assertive, Concealed Aggressive, and Passive behaviors. 
Statistical analysis was done as indicated. The p value of < 0.05 was taken as 
significant.
RESULTS: The overall mean EQ score was 75.9 (SD 8.2), and components scores 
were: Self-Awareness = 74.6 (SD 10), Self-Management = 74.8 (SD 10.6), Social 
Awareness = 77.0 (SD 9.6), and Relationship Management = 76.8 (SD 9.9). Faculty 
and residents had higher Social Awareness scores as compared to medical students 
(79.33 [SD 8] vs. 75.59 [SD 10.3], p = 0.01). Mean EQ scores correlated 
positively with Collaborating conflict style, Assertive Behavior, Influence, and 
Steadiness/Submissiveness but correlated negatively with Dominance personality 
domain, Passive, and Concealed Aggressive behaviors.
CONCLUSION: EQ varied with level of training. EQ competence may occur by 
Collaborating and Assertive Behaviors utilizing Influence and 
Steadiness/Submissiveness personality domains.

PMID: 24937970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


888. Int J Lang Commun Disord. 2014 Sep-Oct;49(5):558-66. doi: 
10.1111/1460-6984.12092. Epub 2014 Jun 17.

A longitudinal assessment of early childhood education with integrated speech 
therapy for children with significant language impairment in Germany.

Ullrich D(1), Ullrich K, Marten M.

Author information:
(1)Medical Practice, Wedemark, Germany.

BACKGROUND: In Lower Saxony, Germany, pre-school children with language- and 
speech-deficits have the opportunity to access kindergartens with integrated 
language-/speech therapy prior to attending primary school, both regular or with 
integrated speech therapy. It is unknown whether these early childhood education 
treatments are helpful and effective.
AIMS: To determine the value of early language-/speech therapy treatment in 
combination with support of personality traits during the pre-school and primary 
school period on the long-term social and academic development of children with 
significant language-/speech delay.
METHODS & PROCEDURES: We conducted prospective longitudinal case series, 
following the academic progress of 71 children after they had been discharged 
from a speech therapy kindergarten (STK) up to 19 years previously. Data 
collection included details on language/speech impairment, socio-economic 
factors, psycho-social skills and intelligence quotient.
RESULTS & IMPLICATIONS: At the end of the follow-up period, 58 children were 
attending secondary schools: 44 (76%) children attended a regular secondary 
school, whereas 14 (24%) children were enrolled in a school with special needs 
education. The results suggest that self-awareness and intelligence quotient in 
this study cohort correlated with later academic achievements.
CONCLUSION & IMPLICATIONS: Kindergartens and primary schools which support 
curriculum-integrated language-/speech therapy and allow for different 
personality traits appear to improve longterm development and academic outcome 
of children with language-/speech impairment or delay.

© 2014 Royal College of Speech and Language Therapists.

DOI: 10.1111/1460-6984.12092
PMID: 24939594 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


889. Clin EEG Neurosci. 2015 Apr;46(2):100-12. doi: 10.1177/1550059414524403. Epub 
2014 Jun 16.

Improvement of neurofeedback therapy for improved attention through facilitation 
of brain activity using local sinusoidal extremely low frequency magnetic field 
exposure.

Zandi Mehran Y(1), Firoozabadi M(2), Rostami R(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Science and Research Branch, Islamic 
Azad University, Tehran, Iran zandi@srbiau.ac.ir.
(2)Medical Physics Department, Tarbiat Modares University, Tehran, Iran.
(3)Department of Psychology, Faculty of Psychology and Educational Sciences, 
University of Tehran, Tehran, Iran Atieh Neuroscience Centre, Tehran, Iran.

Traditional neurofeedback (NF) is a training approach aimed at altering brain 
activity using electroencephalography (EEG) rhythms as feedback. In NF training, 
external factors such as the subjects' intelligence can have an effect. In 
contrast, a low-energy NF system (LENS) does not require conscious effort from 
the subject, which results in fewer attendance sessions. However, eliminating 
the subject role seems to eliminate an important part of the NF system. This 
study investigated the facilitating effect on the theta-to-beta ratio from NF 
training, using a local sinusoidal extremely low frequency magnetic field 
(LSELF-MF) versus traditional NF. Twenty-four healthy, intelligent subjects 
underwent 10 training sessions to enhance beta (15-18 Hz), and simultaneously 
inhibit theta (4-7 Hz) and high beta (22-30 Hz) activity, at the Cz point in a 
3-boat-race video game. Each session consisted of 3 statuses, PRE, DURING, and 
POST. In the DURING status, the NF training procedure lasted 10 minutes. 
Subjects were led to believe that they would be exposed to a magnetic field 
during NF training; however, 16 of the subjects who were assigned to the 
experimental group were really exposed to 45 Hz-360 µT LSELF-MF at Cz. For the 8 
other subjects, only the coil was located at the Cz point with no exposure. The 
duty cycle of exposure was 40% (2-second exposure and 3-second pause). The 
results show that the theta-to-beta ratio in the DURING status of each group 
differs significantly from the PRE and POST statuses. Between-group analysis 
shows that the theta-to-beta ratio in the DURING status of the experimental 
group is significantly (P < .001) lower than in the sham group. The result shows 
the effect of LSELF-MF on NF training.

© EEG and Clinical Neuroscience Society (ECNS) 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/1550059414524403
PMID: 24939868 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


890. PLoS One. 2014 Jun 18;9(6):e100262. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0100262. 
eCollection 2014.

Reliability and validity of the new Tanaka B Intelligence Scale scores: a group 
intelligence test.

Uno Y(1), Mizukami H(2), Ando M(3), Yukihiro R(4), Iwasaki Y(5), Ozaki N(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Nagoya University Graduate 
School of Medicine, Nagoya, Japan.
(2)Department of Psychology, Chiba Juvenile Detention Home, Chiba, Japan.
(3)Center for Advanced Medicine and Clinical Research, Nagoya University 
Hospital, Nagoya, Japan.
(4)Department of Psychology, Kyoto Gakuen University, Kyoto, Japan.
(5)Department of Psychology, Saitama Juvenile Detention Home, Saitama, Japan.

OBJECTIVE: The present study evaluated the reliability and concurrent validity 
of the new Tanaka B Intelligence Scale, which is an intelligence test that can 
be administered on groups within a short period of time.
METHODS: The new Tanaka B Intelligence Scale and Wechsler Intelligence Scale for 
Children-Third Edition were administered to 81 subjects (mean age ± SD 15.2 ± 
0.7 years) residing in a juvenile detention home; reliability was assessed using 
Cronbach's alpha coefficient, and concurrent validity was assessed using the 
one-way analysis of variance intraclass correlation coefficient. Moreover, 
receiver operating characteristic analysis for screening for individuals who 
have a deficit in intellectual function (an FIQ<70) was performed. In addition, 
stratum-specific likelihood ratios for detection of intellectual disability were 
calculated.
RESULTS: The Cronbach's alpha for the new Tanaka B Intelligence Scale IQ (BIQ) 
was 0.86, and the intraclass correlation coefficient with FIQ was 0.83. Receiver 
operating characteristic analysis demonstrated an area under the curve of 0.89 
(95% CI: 0.85-0.96). In addition, the stratum-specific likelihood ratio for the 
BIQ≤65 stratum was 13.8 (95% CI: 3.9-48.9), and the stratum-specific likelihood 
ratio for the BIQ≥76 stratum was 0.1 (95% CI: 0.03-0.4). Thus, intellectual 
disability could be ruled out or determined.
CONCLUSION: The present results demonstrated that the new Tanaka B Intelligence 
Scale score had high reliability and concurrent validity with the Wechsler 
Intelligence Scale for Children-Third Edition score. Moreover, the post-test 
probability for the BIQ could be calculated when screening for individuals who 
have a deficit in intellectual function. The new Tanaka B Intelligence Test is 
convenient and can be administered within a variety of settings. This enables 
evaluation of intellectual development even in settings where performing 
intelligence tests have previously been difficult.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0100262
PMCID: PMC4062530
PMID: 24940880 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: Norio Ozaki is a PLOS ONE 
Editorial Board member. This does not alter the authors’ adherence to PLOS ONE 
Editorial policies and criteria.


891. Clin Child Psychol Psychiatry. 2015 Oct;20(4):591-610. doi: 
10.1177/1359104514538434. Epub 2014 Jun 18.

Affect Consciousness in children with internalizing problems: Assessment of 
affect integration.

Taarvig E(1), Solbakken OA(2), Grova B(3), Monsen JT(2).

Author information:
(1)Lovisenberg Hospital, Health South-East Hospital Trust, Department Nic Waal's 
Institute, Norway eva.taarvig@lds.no.
(2)Department of Psychology, University of Oslo, Norway.
(3)Institute of Psychology, Norway.

Affect integration was operationalized through the Affect Consciousness (AC) 
construct as degrees of awareness, tolerance, nonverbal expression and 
conceptual expression of 11 affects. These aspects are assessed through a 
semi-structured Affect Consciousness Interview (ACI) and separate rating scales 
(Affect Consciousness Scales (ACSs)) developed for use in research and clinical 
work with adults with psychopathological disorders. Age-adjusted changes were 
made in the interview and rating system. This study explored the applicability 
of the adjusted ACI to a sample of 11-year-old children with internalizing 
problems through examining inter-rater reliability of the adjusted ACI, along 
with relationships between the AC aspects and aspects of mental health as 
symptoms of depression, symptoms of anxiety, social competence, besides general 
intelligence. Satisfactory inter-rater reliability was found, as well as 
consistent relationships between the AC aspects and the various aspects of 
mental health, a finding which coincides with previous research. The finding 
indicates that the attainment of the capacity to deal adaptively with affect is 
probably an important contributor to the development of adequate social 
competence and maybe in the prevention of psychopathology in children. The 
results indicate that the adjusted ACI and rating scales are useful tools in 
treatment planning with children at least from the age of 11 years.

© The Author(s) 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/1359104514538434
PMID: 24941941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


892. Anim Cogn. 2015 Jan;18(1):1-17. doi: 10.1007/s10071-014-0761-0. Epub 2014 Jun 
19.

Fish intelligence, sentience and ethics.

Brown C(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Macquarie University, Sydney, 2109, 
Australia, Culum.Brown@mq.edu.au.

Fish are one of the most highly utilised vertebrate taxa by humans; they are 
harvested from wild stocks as part of global fishing industries, grown under 
intensive aquaculture conditions, are the most common pet and are widely used 
for scientific research. But fish are seldom afforded the same level of 
compassion or welfare as warm-blooded vertebrates. Part of the problem is the 
large gap between people's perception of fish intelligence and the scientific 
reality. This is an important issue because public perception guides government 
policy. The perception of an animal's intelligence often drives our decision 
whether or not to include them in our moral circle. From a welfare perspective, 
most researchers would suggest that if an animal is sentient, then it can most 
likely suffer and should therefore be offered some form of formal protection. 
There has been a debate about fish welfare for decades which centres on the 
question of whether they are sentient or conscious. The implications for 
affording the same level of protection to fish as other vertebrates are great, 
not least because of fishing-related industries. Here, I review the current 
state of knowledge of fish cognition starting with their sensory perception and 
moving on to cognition. The review reveals that fish perception and cognitive 
abilities often match or exceed other vertebrates. A review of the evidence for 
pain perception strongly suggests that fish experience pain in a manner similar 
to the rest of the vertebrates. Although scientists cannot provide a definitive 
answer on the level of consciousness for any non-human vertebrate, the extensive 
evidence of fish behavioural and cognitive sophistication and pain perception 
suggests that best practice would be to lend fish the same level of protection 
as any other vertebrate.

DOI: 10.1007/s10071-014-0761-0
PMID: 24942105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


893. J Child Psychol Psychiatry. 2015 Jan;56(1):58-66. doi: 10.1111/jcpp.12278. Epub 
2014 Jun 19.

The possible involvement of genetic variants of NET1 in the etiology of 
attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder comorbid with oppositional defiant 
disorder.

Liu L(1), Cheng J, Li H, Yang L, Qian Q, Wang Y.

Author information:
(1)Peking University Sixth Hospital, Institute of Mental Health, Beijing, China; 
Key Laboratory of Mental Health, Ministry of Health (Peking University), 
Beijing, China.

BACKGROUND: Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and oppositional 
defiant disorder (ODD) often coexist and shared some genetic influences. 
Evidence from the existing literature indicated that comorbid with ODD may 
increase the heterogeneity of ADHD genetics. Our present study sought to 
investigate the role of norepinephrine transporter gene (NET1) for ADHD comorbid 
with ODD.
METHODS: Six single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of NET1 were genotyped for a 
total of 1,815 ADHD cases, including 587 subjects (32.3%) with ODD. Chi-square 
tests were conducted for pseudo case-control study comparing allelic and 
genotypic distributions between ADHD with and without ODD. Among them, there 
were 1,249 probands together with their parents composing trios for family-based 
association studies using transmission disequilibrium tests (TDTs). In addition, 
1,337 ADHD probands have detailed information of ODD symptoms and were included 
for quantitative analyses with genotypes using analyses of covariance (ANCOVA). 
To consider the overlap and correlation of other comorbidities with ODD and 
eliminate their potential confounding effect, we further repeated above analyses 
for 'pure ADHD+ODD' versus 'ADHD-only' after excluding other comorbidities 
except for ODD.
RESULTS: The pseudo case-control study showed different allelic and genotypic 
distributions of SNP rs3785143 between ADHD with ODD and those without ODD. 
Family-based association tests indicated overtransmission of the T allele of 
rs3785143 in ADHD with ODD trios, but no biased transmission in those without 
ODD. ANCOVA showed association between genotypes of rs3785143 with ODD symptoms 
in ADHD probands, especially with 'Argumentative/Defiant Behavior (ADB)' 
dimension after controlling gender, age, clinical subtypes and intelligence. 
Above association still existed after removing the samples with other 
comorbidities.
CONCLUSION: NET1 was associated with comorbidity of ODD and ODD symptoms in ADHD 
probands. Our findings emphasize the importance of considering the comorbidity 
of ODD in ADHD genetic studies, especially ADHD with ADB. However, further 
replication in independent sample or different populations is still needed.

© 2014 The Authors. Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry. © 2014 
Association for Child and Adolescent Mental Health.

DOI: 10.1111/jcpp.12278
PMID: 24942521 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


894. J Nurs Manag. 2015 Sep;23(6):744-53. doi: 10.1111/jonm.12204. Epub 2014 Jun 19.

A reflective framework to foster emotionally intelligent leadership in nursing.

Heckemann B(1), Schols JM(2), Halfens RJ(3).

Author information:
(1)CAPHRI - School for Public Health and Primary Care, Maastricht University, 
Maastricht, the Netherlands.
(2)Faculty of Health, Medicine and Life Sciences, Department of Family Medicine 
and Department of Health Services Research, CAPHRI - School for Public Health 
and Primary Care, Maastricht University, Maastricht, the Netherlands.
(3)Faculty of Health, Medicine and Life Sciences, Department of Health Care and 
Nursing Science, CAPHRI - School for Public Health and Primary Care, Maastricht 
University, Maastricht, the Netherlands.

AIM: To propose a reflective framework based on the perspective of emotional 
intelligence (EI) in nurse leadership literature.
BACKGROUND: Emotional intelligence is a self-development construct aimed at 
enhancing the management of feelings and interpersonal relationships, which has 
become increasingly popular in nurse leadership. Reflection is an established 
means to foster learning. Integrating those aspects of emotional intelligence 
pertinent to nurse leadership into a reflective framework might support the 
development of nurse leadership in a practical context.
METHOD: A sample of 22 articles, retrieved via electronic databases 
(Ovid/Medline, BNI, psycArticles, Zetoc and CINAHL) and published between 
January 1996 and April 2009, was analysed in a qualitative descriptive content 
analysis.
RESULT: Three dimensions that characterise emotional intelligence leadership in 
the context of nursing - the nurse leader as a 'socio-cultural architect', as a 
'responsive carer' and as a 'strategic visionary' - emerged from the analysis. 
To enable practical application, these dimensions were contextualised into a 
reflective framework.
CONCLUSION: Emotional intelligence skills are regarded as essential for 
establishing empowering work environments in nursing. A reflective framework 
might aid the translation of emotional intelligence into a real-world context.
IMPLICATIONS FOR NURSING PRACTICE: The proposed framework may supplement 
learning about emotional intelligence skills and aid the integration of 
emotional intelligence in a clinical environment.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jonm.12204
PMID: 24942539 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


895. Arch Immunol Ther Exp (Warsz). 2014 Aug;62(4):263-75. doi: 
10.1007/s00005-014-0298-6. Epub 2014 Jun 19.

Natural or deliberate outbreak in Pakistan: how to prevent or detect and trace 
its origin: biosecurity, surveillance, forensics.

Shinwari ZK(1), Khalil AT, Nasim A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Quaid i Azam University, Islamabad, Pakistan.

Over the last few decades biosecurity and biosafety have emerged as a prominent 
public health concern due to some high-profile accidents. Effective strategies 
to deal with the outbreak, whether deliberate or non-deliberate requires a 
multidisciplinary approach and coordinated decision-making by various state 
departments such as health, forensics, agriculture, environment, intelligence, 
law and enforcement, etc. In a dynamic global environment and the overwhelming 
asymmetric threats from the non-state actors, it is of utmost importance to 
understand the biosecurity issues and initiate a coordinated global effort to 
cope with biosecurity and biosafety breaches and develop an as effective 
response mechanism. An attractive choice for the terrorists, state enemies and 
non-state actors is the use of biological weapons. An unwanted incident may not 
only bring chaos to the people, but also can inflict severe economic damage 
industrially and locally as was in the notorious foot-and-mouth disease 
outbreak. Because of special geopolitical compulsion, Pakistan is one of the hot 
spots where special action needs to be taken. The current review focuses on the 
various approaches, technologies that can be used to alleviate the chances of 
biosafety and biosecurity incident and emphasizes the role of modern technology 
that can be used in this regard.

DOI: 10.1007/s00005-014-0298-6
PMID: 24942803 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


896. Br J Psychol. 2014 Aug;105(3):316-37. doi: 10.1111/bjop.12039. Epub 2013 Jun 28.

Why is intelligence associated with stability of happiness?

Kanazawa S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Management, London School of Economics and Political Science, 
UK.

In the National Child Development Study, life-course variability in happiness 
over 18 years was significantly negatively associated with its mean level 
(happier individuals were more stable in their happiness, and it was not due to 
the ceiling effect), as well as childhood general intelligence and all Big Five 
personality factors (except for Agreeableness). In a multiple regression 
analysis, childhood general intelligence was the strongest predictor of 
life-course variability in life satisfaction, stronger than all Big Five 
personality factors, including Emotional stability. More intelligent individuals 
were significantly more stable in their happiness, and it was not entirely 
because: (1) they were more educated and wealthier (even though they were); (2) 
they were healthier (even though they were); (3) they were more stable in their 
marital status (even though they were); (4) they were happier (even though they 
were); (5) they were better able to assess their own happiness accurately (even 
though they were); or (6) they were better able to recall their previous 
responses more accurately or they were more honest in their survey responses 
(even though they were both). While I could exclude all of these alternative 
explanations, it ultimately remained unclear why more intelligent individuals 
were more stable in their happiness.

© 2013 The British Psychological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/bjop.12039
PMID: 24943404 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


897. Drug Test Anal. 2015 May;7(5):393-400. doi: 10.1002/dta.1684. Epub 2014 Jun 17.

Qualitative analysis of seized cocaine samples using desorption electrospray 
ionization- mass spectrometry (DESI-MS).

Stojanovska N(1), Tahtouh M(2), Kelly T(3), Beavis A(1), Fu S(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Forensic Science, University of Technology, Sydney (UTS), PO 
Box 123, Broadway, NSW, 2000, Australia.
(2)Australian Federal Police, 110 Goulburn St, Sydney, NSW, 2007, Australia.
(3)National Centre for Forensic Studies, Faculty of Education, Science, 
Technology and Mathematics (ESTeM), University of Canberra, ACT, 2601, 
Australia.

Desorption electrospray ionization - mass spectrometry (DESI-MS) is a useful 
technique for the qualitative analysis of compounds found in seized drug 
material. In this study, DESI-MS was utilized in the screening analysis of 
illicit cocaine samples. The technique was also applied to the geographical 
origin determination of these samples. The limit of detection was determined to 
be 24.3 µg (or 3.47 µg/mm(2) ) and the analysis time was less than 1 minute per 
sample. The intra-day and inter-day precision for the detection of cocaine was 
11 % and 42 %, respectively; therefore the quantitative data provided by DESI-MS 
was limited in its use for accurate determination of cocaine concentration in a 
sample. Using the quadrupole time-of-flight (QTOF) mass spectrometer, the 
presence of cocaine and impurities detected were confirmed by accurate tandem MS 
data. The qualitative chemical profiles obtained using DESI-MS were compared to 
two popular analysis techniques, GC-MS and LC-MS. The effects of a range of 
adulterants including caffeine, procaine, levamisole, lignocaine, paracetamol, 
and atropine on the detectability of cocaine were also investigated. It was 
found that the addition of these adulterants in a cocaine sample did not prevent 
the detection of the analyte itself (there was slight enhancement in some 
samples), which was useful in drug detection. The detection of truxillines in 
the seized samples by DESI-MS aided in the preliminary determination of 
geographical origin, i.e., Bolivian, Peruvian or Colombian leaf origin. The 
application of DESI-MS to the qualitative analysis and screening of seized 
cocaine samples demonstrates the potential and applicability of the technique to 
the fast chemical profiling of illicit samples.

Copyright © 2014 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/dta.1684
PMID: 24943809 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


898. Eur Rev Med Pharmacol Sci. 2014 Jun;18(11):1632-7.

Neuropsychological and neurophysiological evaluation of cognitive deficits 
related to the severity of traumatic brain injury.

Soldatovic-Stajic B(1), Misic-Pavkov G, Bozic K, Novovic Z, Gajic Z.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Center of Vojvodina, Faculty of Medicine, University of Novi Sad, 
Novi Sad, Serbia. bozick@eunet.rs.

OBJECTIVES: Cognitive impairment is a common permanent sequela of traumatic 
brain injury (TBI). Its objectivization is based on neuropsychological and 
neurophysiological assessment. Neuropsychological evaluation requires a test 
battery, whereas for neurophysiological assessment the most significant is 
application of P300 Event-Related Potentials (ERPs). The aim of the study was to 
determine whether it is possible to differentiate between degrees of severity of 
TBI on the basis of neuropsychological and neurophysiological parameters.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A total of 90 patients with closed TBI were evaluated at 
least one year after trauma. Subjects were classified into three groups 
according to severity of TBI: mild, moderate and severe. In all subjects the 
Intelligence Test, the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST) and P300 ERPs were 
performed.
RESULTS: General intelligence measures did not prove sensitivity enough to 
differentiate levels of severity of TBI, whereas the number of achieved 
categories on the WCST significantly discerned patients with mild and moderate 
TBI from patients with severe TBI. Perseverative errors significantly separated 
patients with mild TBI from patients with moderate and severe TBI. 
Non-perseverative errors significantly differentiated only patients with mild 
TBI from patients with severe TBI. Finally, P300 latency (EPLAT) significantly 
differentiated patients with mild TBI from patients with moderate and severe 
TBI. The results show that the applied test battery can discriminate between 
different levels of severity of TBI and emphasize the importance of P300 ERP in 
the evaluation of patients with brain injury.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings indicate that the WCST and ERP P300 latency have a 
significant role in the assessment of cognitive deficit related to TBI.

PMID: 24943974 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


899. Intelligence. 2014 May;44(100):26-32. doi: 10.1016/j.intell.2014.02.006.

Molecular genetic contributions to socioeconomic status and intelligence.

Marioni RE(1), Davies G(2), Hayward C(3), Liewald D(4), Kerr SM(3), Campbell 
A(5), Luciano M(1), Smith BH(6), Padmanabhan S(7), Hocking LJ(8), Hastie ND(3), 
Wright AF(3), Porteous DJ(9), Visscher PM(10), Deary IJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, University of 
Edinburgh, 7 George Square, Edinburgh EH8 9JZ, UK ; Department of Psychology, 
University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh EH8 9JZ, UK.
(2)Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, University of 
Edinburgh, 7 George Square, Edinburgh EH8 9JZ, UK ; Department of Psychology, 
University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh EH8 9JZ, UK ; Medical Genetics Section, 
Centre for Genomic and Experimental Medicine, Institute of Genetics and 
Molecular Medicine, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh EH4 2XU, UK.
(3)Medical Research Council Human Genetics Unit, Institute of Genetics and 
Molecular Medicine, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh EH4 2XU, UK.
(4)Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, University of 
Edinburgh, 7 George Square, Edinburgh EH8 9JZ, UK.
(5)Medical Genetics Section, Centre for Genomic and Experimental Medicine, 
Institute of Genetics and Molecular Medicine, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh 
EH4 2XU, UK.
(6)Medical Research Institute, University of Dundee, Dundee DD2 4RB, UK.
(7)British Heart Foundation Glasgow Cardiovascular Research Centre, Institute of 
Cardiovascular and Medical Sciences, College of Medical, Veterinary and Life 
Sciences, University of Glasgow, Glasgow G12 8TA, UK.
(8)Musculoskeletal Research Programme, Division of Applied Medicine, University 
of Aberdeen, Aberdeen AB25 2ZD, UK.
(9)Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, University of 
Edinburgh, 7 George Square, Edinburgh EH8 9JZ, UK ; Medical Genetics Section, 
Centre for Genomic and Experimental Medicine, Institute of Genetics and 
Molecular Medicine, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh EH4 2XU, UK.
(10)Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, University of 
Edinburgh, 7 George Square, Edinburgh EH8 9JZ, UK ; University of Queensland 
Diamantina Institute, The University of Queensland, Princess Alexandra Hospital, 
Brisbane 4072, QLD, Australia ; Queensland Brain Institute, The University of 
Queensland, Brisbane 4072, QLD, Australia.

Education, socioeconomic status, and intelligence are commonly used as 
predictors of health outcomes, social environment, and mortality. Education and 
socioeconomic status are typically viewed as environmental variables although 
both correlate with intelligence, which has a substantial genetic basis. Using 
data from 6815 unrelated subjects from the Generation Scotland study, we 
examined the genetic contributions to these variables and their genetic 
correlations. Subjects underwent genome-wide testing for common single 
nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). DNA-derived heritability estimates and genetic 
correlations were calculated using the 'Genome-wide Complex Trait Analyses' 
(GCTA) procedures. 21% of the variation in education, 18% of the variation in 
socioeconomic status, and 29% of the variation in general cognitive ability was 
explained by variation in common SNPs (SEs ~ 5%). The SNP-based genetic 
correlations of education and socioeconomic status with general intelligence 
were 0.95 (SE 0.13) and 0.26 (0.16), respectively. There are genetic 
contributions to intelligence and education with near-complete overlap between 
common additive SNP effects on these traits (genetic correlation ~ 1). Genetic 
influences on socioeconomic status are also associated with the genetic 
foundations of intelligence. The results are also compatible with substantial 
environmental contributions to socioeconomic status.

DOI: 10.1016/j.intell.2014.02.006
PMCID: PMC4051988
PMID: 24944428


900. East Mediterr Health J. 2014 Mar 13;20(2):73-81.

Framework for assessing stewardship of the oral health system in Islamic 
Republic of Iran.

Tahani B(1), Yazdani S(2), Khoshnevisan MH(3), Dugdale P(4), Siddiqi S(5), 
Ahmady AE(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Oral Health, School of Dentistry, Shahid Beheshti 
University of Medical Science, Tehran, Islamic Republic of Iran.
(2)Educational Development Centre, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical 
Science, Tehran, Islamic Republic of Iran.
(3)Department of Community Oral Health, School of Dentistry, Preventive 
Dentistry Research Centre, Research Institute of Dental Sciences, Shahid 
Beheshti University of Medical Science, Tehran, Islamic Republic of Iran.
(4)Centre for Health Stewardship, Australian National University, Canberra, 
Australia.
(5)Information Evidence and Research, World Health Organization Regional Office 
for the Eastern Mediterranean, Cairo, Egypt.
(6)Department of Community Oral Health, School of Dentistry, Shahid Beheshti 
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Islamic Republic of Iran.

This study designed a framework for assessing the stewardship function of the 
oral health system in Islamic Republic of Iran. The modified RAND 
Corporation/University of California Los Angeles (RAND-UCLA) Appropriateness 
Method was used in a 2-step process that combined literature evidence and the 
collective judgement of experts. After a comprehensive literature review, policy 
instruments related to stewardship components were extracted as candidate 
standards and categorized according to the 6 sub-functions of stewardship 
(accountability; defining strategic direction; alignment of policy objectives 
and organizational structure; regulation; intersectoral leadership; and 
generation of intelligence). Five key informants then rated the appropriateness 
of the 85 standards on a 5-point Likert scale. The 38 highest ranked standards, 
including at least 2 standards in each of the 6 sub-functions, formed a set of 
proposed standards for evaluating the current stewardship of oral health system. 
Piloting of the instrument will be reported separately.

Publisher: إطار لتقييم القوامة في نظام صحة الفم في جمهورية إيران الإسلامية 
باهاره تهاني، شهرام يازداني، محمد خوشنيفيسان، بول دوغدالي، ثمين صديقي، أريزو ابن 
أحمدي وضعت هذه الدراسة إطار عمل لتقييم وظيفة القوامة في نظام صحة الفم في جمهورية 
إيران الإسلامية. وتم استخدام الطريقة المعدلة لمؤسسة البحث والتقييم التابعة 
لجامعة كاليفورنيا في لوس أنجلوس على خطوتين للربط بين البيِّنات المنشورة والرأي 
الجماعي للخبراء. وبعد إجراء مراجعة شاملة للنّشريات، تم استخلاص النصوص الخاصة 
بالسياسات المتعلقة بعنصر القوامة كمقاييس مقترحة، وتم تصنيفها وفقاً للوظائف 
الفرعية الست للقوامة (المساءلة، والتوجهات الاستراتيجية المحددة؛ وترتيب أهداف 
السياسيات؛ والهيكل التنظيمي؛ والتنظيم، والقيادة المشتركة بين القطاعات، وإنتاج 
المعلومات). ثم قام خمسة مبلِّغين رئيسيين بتقييم مدى ملاءمة المعايير البالغ عددها 
85 مقياساً وفقاً لمقياس ليكرت ذي النقاط الخمس. وقد شكلت المقاييس التي حصلت على 
أعلى ترتيب والبالغ عددها 38 مقياساً، بما فيها مقياسان على الأقل في كل من الوظائف 
الفرعية الست، مجموعة من المقاييس المقترحة لتقييم القوامة الحالية لنظام صحة الفم. 
وسيتم تقديم تقرير عن هذه الأداة بشكل منفصل.

Publisher: Cadre d’évaluation de la gouvernance du système de santé 
bucco-dentaire en République islamique d’Iran. La présente étude a conçu un 
cadre d’évaluation de la fonction de gouvernance du système de santé 
bucco-dentaire en République islamique d’Iran. La Méthode modifiée de 
détermination de la pertinence des indications de la Rand Corporation et de 
l’Université de Californie Los Angeles (Rand/UCIA) a été utilisée, dans un 
processus en deux étapes, combinant les données probantes de la littérature et 
le point de vue collectif d’experts. Après un examen exhaustif de la 
littérature, des instruments de politiques liés aux composantes de gouvernance 
ont été extraits en tant que normes candidates puis classés en catégories selon 
les six sous-fonctions de gouvernance (responsabilisation, définition d’une 
orientation stratégique, harmonisation des objectifs politiques et de la 
structure organisationnelle, réglementation, direction intersectorielle et 
production de données). Cinq informateurs clés ont ensuite attribué une note à 
la pertinence de 85 normes sur l’échelle de Likert en cinq points. Les 38 normes 
les mieux notées, dont au moins deux normes dans chacune des six sous-fonctions, 
ont formé un ensemble proposé pour l’évaluation de la gouvernance actuelle du 
système de santé bucco-dentaire. Le pilotage de l’instrument fera l’objet d’un 
rapport distinct.

PMID: 24945555 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


901. Community Dent Oral Epidemiol. 2014 Jun;42(3):279-88. doi: 10.1111/cdoe.12084.

Subjective well-being in dentists: the role of intrinsic aspirations.

Montasem A, Brown SL, Harris R.

OBJECTIVES: To take a motivational approach, testing an idea derived from 
self-determination theory (SDT) that the pursuit of intrinsic life and 
professional aspirations is associated with enhanced subjective well-being.
METHODS: A cross-sectional survey of a cluster sample of 583 dentists in England 
provided data on the subjective importance of their intrinsic and extrinsic 
aspirations and their perceived likelihood of achieving those aspirations. The 
dependent variable was a four-domain measure of subjective well-being.
RESULTS: Controlling measures of core self-evaluations and trait emotional 
intelligence, the perceived importance and likelihood of achieving intrinsic 
aspirations were uniquely related to positive affect; the perceived likelihood 
of achieving intrinsic aspirations was uniquely related to job and life 
satisfaction and positive affect, and the perceived likelihood of achieving 
extrinsic aspirations was uniquely related to life satisfaction. No aspiration 
variables uniquely predicted negative affect.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings lend support to self-determination theory and 
provide a platform for the future development of interventions that can promote 
and maintain well-being in dentists.

DOI: 10.1111/cdoe.12084
PMID: 24949514 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


902. Sensors (Basel). 2014 Jun 19;14(6):10952-76. doi: 10.3390/s140610952.

Computational intelligence techniques for tactile sensing systems.

Gastaldo P(1), Pinna L(2), Seminara L(3), Valle M(4), Zunino R(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Electric, Electronic, Telecommunication Engineering and Naval 
Architecture, DITEN, University of Genoa, Via Opera Pia 11a, 16145 Genova, 
Italy. paolo.gastaldo@unige.it.
(2)Department of Electric, Electronic, Telecommunication Engineering and Naval 
Architecture, DITEN, University of Genoa, Via Opera Pia 11a, 16145 Genova, 
Italy. luigi.pinna@unige.it.
(3)Department of Electric, Electronic, Telecommunication Engineering and Naval 
Architecture, DITEN, University of Genoa, Via Opera Pia 11a, 16145 Genova, 
Italy. lucia.seminara@unige.it.
(4)Department of Electric, Electronic, Telecommunication Engineering and Naval 
Architecture, DITEN, University of Genoa, Via Opera Pia 11a, 16145 Genova, 
Italy. maurizio.valle@unige.it.
(5)Department of Electric, Electronic, Telecommunication Engineering and Naval 
Architecture, DITEN, University of Genoa, Via Opera Pia 11a, 16145 Genova, 
Italy. unige.it@unige.it.

Tactile sensing helps robots interact with humans and objects effectively in 
real environments. Piezoelectric polymer sensors provide the functional building 
blocks of the robotic electronic skin, mainly thanks to their flexibility and 
suitability for detecting dynamic contact events and for recognizing the touch 
modality. The paper focuses on the ability of tactile sensing systems to support 
the challenging recognition of certain qualities/modalities of touch. The 
research applies novel computational intelligence techniques and a tensor-based 
approach for the classification of touch modalities; its main results consist in 
providing a procedure to enhance system generalization ability and architecture 
for multi-class recognition applications. An experimental campaign involving 70 
participants using three different modalities in touching the upper surface of 
the sensor array was conducted, and confirmed the validity of the approach.

DOI: 10.3390/s140610952
PMCID: PMC4118344
PMID: 24949646 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


903. J Neurosurg Pediatr. 2014 Aug;14(2):136-44. doi: 10.3171/2014.5.PEDS13571. Epub 
2014 Jun 20.

Cognitive disorders in pediatric medulloblastoma: what neuroimaging has to 
offer.

Hoang DH(1), Pagnier A, Guichardet K, Dubois-Teklali F, Schiff I, Lyard G, 
Cousin E, Krainik A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, University Hospital Viettiep, Haiphong, Vietnam;

Medulloblastomas are the most common malignant childhood brain tumors arising in 
the posterior fossa. Treatment improvements for these tumors have meant that 
there are a greater number of survivors, but this long-term patient survival has 
increased the awareness of resulting neurocognitive deficits. Impairments in 
attention, memory, executive functions, and intelligence quotient demonstrate 
that the cerebellum likely plays a significant role in numerous higher cognitive 
functions such as language, cognitive, and emotional functions. In addition, 
children with medulloblastoma not only have cerebellar lesions but also brain 
white matter damages due to radiation and chemotherapy. Functional neuroimaging, 
a noninvasive method with many advantages, has become the standard tool in 
clinical and cognitive neuroscience research. By reviewing functional 
neuroimaging studies, this review aims to clarify the role of the cerebellum in 
cognitive function and explain more clearly cognitive sequelae due to 
polytherapy in children with medulloblastoma. This review suggests that the 
posterior cerebellar lobes are crucial to maintaining cognitive performance. 
Clinical investigations could help to better assess the involvement of these 
lobes in cognitive functions.

DOI: 10.3171/2014.5.PEDS13571
PMID: 24950472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


904. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2014 Nov;148(5):2190-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.jtcvs.2013.10.087. Epub 2014 May 23.

Neurologic and psycho-intellectual outcome related to structural brain imaging 
in adolescents and young adults after neonatal arterial switch operation for 
transposition of the great arteries.

Heinrichs AK(1), Holschen A(1), Krings T(2), Messmer BJ(3), Schnitker R(4), 
Minkenberg R(5), Hövels-Gürich HH(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Cardiology, University Hospital, Aachen University of 
Technology, Aachen, Germany.
(2)Department of Neuroradiology, University Hospital, Aachen University of 
Technology, Aachen, Germany.
(3)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, University Hospital, Aachen University 
of Technology, Aachen, Germany.
(4)Department of Central Service Facility "Functional Imaging" at the 
ICCR-Biomat, University Hospital, Aachen University of Technology, Aachen, 
Germany.
(5)Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma GmbH & Co KG, Ingelheim, Germany.
(6)Department of Pediatric Cardiology, University Hospital, Aachen University of 
Technology, Aachen, Germany. Electronic address: hhoevels-guerich@ukaachen.de.

Comment in
    J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2014 Nov;148(5):1790-1.
    J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2014 Nov;148(5):2199-200.

OBJECTIVE: We studied brain structure abnormalities in adolescents and young 
adults who had undergone the neonatal arterial switch operation for 
transposition of the great arteries and related them to the neurologic and 
psycho-intellectual outcomes.
METHODS: In a prospective longitudinal study, 60 unselected adolescents and 
young adults who had undergone surgery with combined deep hypothermic 
circulatory arrest and low flow cardiopulmonary bypass were re-evaluated at a 
mean age of 16.9±1.7 years to determine their clinical neurologic status, 
intellectual development, and psychological condition. The results were related 
to population norms and anatomic structural abnormalities assessed by brain 
magnetic resonance imaging, with consideration of the risk factors in the 
preoperative and perioperative periods.
RESULTS: Neurologic impairment was more frequent (10%) than in the normal 
population. Although the average full-scale, verbal, and performance 
intelligence quotients were not reduced, scores>2 standard deviations less than 
the expected mean were increased. Above average scores were found for analytical 
thinking, but the orthography testing results were reduced. The self-rated 
psychological condition was better than expected. Magnetic resonance imaging 
demonstrated moderate or severe structural brain abnormalities in 32% of the 
patients. Periventricular leukomalacia was detected in >50%; its severity 
correlated with the grade of neurologic impairment, which correlated 
significantly with reduced intelligence, analytical thinking, and orthography. 
Preoperative acidosis and hypoxia were the only independent patient-related risk 
factors for neurologic dysfunction, reduced intelligence, periventricular 
leukomalacia, and reduced brain volume.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite encouraging overall neurodevelopmental outcomes, a 
significant minority had performances below the expected level, emphasizing the 
need for ongoing surveillance. Considering the high frequency of structural 
brain abnormalities, prospective long-term studies are needed to define their 
prognostic value with respect to the neuropsychological outcomes in childhood 
and adolescence.

Copyright © 2014 The American Association for Thoracic Surgery. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtcvs.2013.10.087
PMID: 24951021 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


905. Am J Alzheimers Dis Other Demen. 2015 Feb;30(1):69-77. doi: 
10.1177/1533317514539724. Epub 2014 Jun 20.

An ambient assisted living approach in designing domiciliary services combined 
with innovative technologies for patients with Alzheimer's disease: a case 
study.

Cavallo F(1), Aquilano M(2), Arvati M(3).

Author information:
(1)The BioRobotics Institute - Scuola Superiore Sant'Anna, Pontedera, Italy 
f.cavallo@sssup.it.
(2)The BioRobotics Institute - Scuola Superiore Sant'Anna, Pontedera, Italy.
(3)A.S.P. e F. Azienda Servizi alla Persona e alla Famiglia, Mantova, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is one of the most disabling diseases to 
affect large numbers of elderly people worldwide. Because of the characteristics 
of this disease, patients with AD require daily assistance from service 
providers both in nursing homes and at home. Domiciliary assistance has been 
demonstrated to be cost effective and efficient in the first phase of the 
disease, helping to slow down the course of the illness, improve the quality of 
life and care, and extend independence for patients and caregivers. In this 
context, the aim of this work is to demonstrate the technical effectiveness and 
acceptability of an innovative domiciliary smart sensor system for providing 
domiciliary assistance to patients with AD which has been developed with an 
Ambient Assisted Living (AAL) approach.
METHODS: The design, development, testing, and evaluation of the innovative 
technological solution were performed by a multidisciplinary team. In all, 15 
sociomedical operators and 14 patients with AD were directly involved in 
defining the end-users' needs and requirements, identifying design principles 
with acceptability and usability features and evaluating the technological 
solutions before and after the real experimentation.
RESULTS: A modular technological system was produced to help caregivers 
continuously monitor the health status, safety, and daily activities of patients 
with AD. During the experimentation, the acceptability, utility, usability, and 
efficacy of this system were evaluated as quite positive.
CONCLUSION: The experience described in this article demonstrated that AAL 
technologies are feasible and effective nowadays and can be actively used in 
assisting patients with AD in their homes. The extensive involvement of 
caregivers in the experimentation allowed to assess that there is, through the 
use of the technological system, a proven improvement in care performance and 
efficiency of care provision by both formal and informal caregivers and 
consequently an increase in the quality of life of patients, their relatives, 
and their caregivers.

© The Author(s) 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/1533317514539724
PMID: 24951634 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


906. Res Dev Disabil. 2014 Oct;35(10):2341-51. doi: 10.1016/j.ridd.2014.05.026. Epub 
2014 Jun 20.

The acquisition of contextual cueing effects by persons with and without 
intellectual disability.

Merrill EC(1), Conners FA(2), Yang Y(2), Weathington D(2).

Author information:
(1)The University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa, AL, USA. Electronic address: 
emerrill@ua.edu.
(2)The University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa, AL, USA.

Two experiments were conducted to compare the acquisition of contextual cueing 
effects of adolescents and young adults with intellectual disabilities (ID) 
relative to typically developing children and young adults. Contextual cueing 
reflects an implicit, memory based attention guidance mechanism that results in 
faster search for target locations that have been previously experienced in a 
predictable context. In the study, participants located a target stimulus 
embedded in a context of numerous distracter stimuli. During a learning phase, 
the location of the target was predictable from the location of the distracters 
in the search displays. We then compared response times to locating predictable 
relative to unpredictable targets presented in a test phase. In Experiment 1, 
all of the distracters predicted the location of the target. In Experiment 2, 
half of the distracters predicted the location of the target while the other 
half varied randomly. The participants with ID exhibited significant contextual 
facilitation in both experiments, with the magnitude of facilitation being 
similar to that of the typically developing (TD) children and adults. We 
concluded that deficiencies in contextual cueing are not necessarily associated 
with low measured intelligence that results in a classification of ID.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ridd.2014.05.026
PMID: 24953040 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


907. Int Rev Psychiatry. 2014 Jun;26(3):279-88. doi: 10.3109/09540261.2014.890922.

The role of spirituality in coping with the demands of the hospital culture 
amongst fourth-year nursing students.

Cilliers F(1), Terblanche L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Industrial and Organisational Psychology, University of South 
Africa , Pretoria , South Africa.

The aim of this research was to describe the role of spirituality in coping with 
the demands of the hospital culture amongst fourth-year nursing students. 
Qualitative, descriptive, hermeneutic interpretive research was done. A case 
study of 14 female Canadian nursing students was asked to write an essay on 
their experiences of the demands of the hospital culture. Content analysis was 
used and positive psychology served as the interpretive lens. Trustworthiness 
and ethicality were ensured. The findings indicated that although the nursing 
students expressed themselves in religious and spiritual words, they did not 
significantly illustrate the theoretically associated intra-, interpersonal and 
sacred behaviours to be referred to as being spiritual in their experience as a 
care giver in the hospital culture. They also did not illustrate behaviours 
linked to other positive psychology constructs such as sense of coherence, 
resilience, engagement or emotional intelligence. Rather, the nursing students 
experienced identity crises. Recommendations for the inclusion of mentoring in 
the curriculum of nursing students were formulated.

DOI: 10.3109/09540261.2014.890922
PMID: 24953147 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


908. Indian Pediatr. 2014 May;51(5):359-65. doi: 10.1007/s13312-014-0417-9.

INCLEN Diagnostic Tool for Autism Spectrum Disorder (INDT-ASD): development and 
validation.

Juneja M(1), Mishra D, Russell PS, Gulati S, Deshmukh V, Tudu P, Sagar R, 
Silberberg D, Bhutani VK, Pinto JM, Durkin M, Pandey RM, Nair MK, Arora NK; 
INCLEN Study Group.

Collaborators: Thakkar A, Singh A, Singh GB, Mehta M, Das M, Babu N, Suman P, 
Konanki R, Saxena R, Aneja S, Sapra S, Mukherjee S, Reddy SK, Dada T, Niswade 
AK, Mohapatra A, Maria A, Prasad A, Das BC, Vyas B, Murthy GV, Devi GM, Nair H, 
Gupta JC, Handa KK, Sumaraj L, Kulkarni M, Masoodi M, Natrajan P, Kumar R, Dass 
R, Devi R, Bavdekar S, Mohanty S, Suresh S, Sharma S, Thyagu SS, Karande S, 
Sharma TD, Aggarwal V, Chaudhuri Z.

Author information:
(1)INCLEN Trust International, New Delhi, India. Correspondence to: Dr Narendra 
K Arora, Executive Director, The INCLEN TRUST International, F1/5, Okhla 
Industrial Area, Phase-1, New Delhi, India. nkarora@inclentrust.org.

Comment in
    Indian Pediatr. 2014 May;51(5):355-6.
    Indian Pediatr. 2014 May;51(5):356-7.

OBJECTIVE: To develop and validate INCLEN Diagnostic Tool for Autism Spectrum 
Disorder (INDT-ASD).
DESIGN: Diagnostic test evaluation by cross sectional design.
SETTING: Four tertiary pediatric neurology centers in Delhi and 
Thiruvanthapuram, India.
METHODS: Children aged 2-9 years were enrolled in the study. INDT-ASD and 
Childhood Autism Rating Scale (CARS) were administered in a randomly decided 
sequence by trained psychologist, followed by an expert evaluation by DSM-IV TR 
diagnostic criteria (gold standard).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Psychometric parameters of diagnostic accuracy, validity 
(construct, criterion and convergent) and internal consistency.
RESULTS: 154 children (110 boys, mean age 64.2 mo) were enrolled. The overall 
diagnostic accuracy (AUC=0.97, 95% CI 0.93, 0.99; P<0.001) and validity 
(sensitivity 98%, specificity 95%, positive predictive value 91%, negative 
predictive value 99%) of INDT-ASD for Autism spectrum disorder were high, taking 
expert diagnosis using DSM-IV-TR as gold standard. The concordance rate between 
the INDT-ASD and expert diagnosis for 'ASD group' was 82.52% [Cohen's k=0.89; 
95% CI (0.82, 0.97); P=0.001]. The internal consistency of INDT-ASD was 0.96. 
The convergent validity with CARS (r = 0.73, P= 0.001) and divergent validity 
with Binet-Kamat Test of intelligence (r = -0.37; P=0.004) were significantly 
high. INDT-ASD has a 4-factor structure explaining 85.3% of the variance.
CONCLUSIONS: INDT-ASD has high diagnostic accuracy, adequate content validity, 
good internal consistency high criterion validity and high to moderate 
convergent validity and 4-factor construct validity for diagnosis of Autistm 
spectrum disorder.

DOI: 10.1007/s13312-014-0417-9
PMID: 24953575 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


909. Psychiatry Res. 2014 Aug 30;223(2):67-74. doi: 
10.1016/j.pscychresns.2014.05.013. Epub 2014 Jun 2.

No significant brain volume decreases or increases in adults with 
high-functioning autism spectrum disorder and above average intelligence: a 
voxel-based morphometric study.

Riedel A(1), Maier S(2), Ulbrich M(3), Biscaldi M(4), Ebert D(1), Fangmeier 
T(1), Perlov E(3), Tebartz van Elst L(5).

Author information:
(1)Section for Experimental Neuropsychiatry, Clinic for Psychiatry & 
Psychotherapy, Albert-Ludwigs-University, Hauptstraße 5, 79104 Freiburg, 
Germany; Universitäres Zentrum Autismus Spektrum, Clinic for Psychiatry & 
Psychotherapy, Albert-Ludwigs-University, Hauptstraße 5, 79104 Freiburg, 
Germany.
(2)Freiburg Brain Imaging, University Medical Center Freiburg, Breisacher Straße 
64, 79106 Freiburg, Germany; Institute of Biology III, Faculty of Biology, 
Albert-Ludwigs-University, 79104 Freiburg, Germany. Electronic address: 
simon.maier@uniklinik-freiburg.de.
(3)Section for Experimental Neuropsychiatry, Clinic for Psychiatry & 
Psychotherapy, Albert-Ludwigs-University, Hauptstraße 5, 79104 Freiburg, 
Germany.
(4)Department for Child & Adolescent Psychiatry & Psychotherapy, 
Albert-Ludwigs-University, Hauptstraße 8, 79104 Freiburg, Germany.
(5)Section for Experimental Neuropsychiatry, Clinic for Psychiatry & 
Psychotherapy, Albert-Ludwigs-University, Hauptstraße 5, 79104 Freiburg, 
Germany; Universitäres Zentrum Autismus Spektrum, Clinic for Psychiatry & 
Psychotherapy, Albert-Ludwigs-University, Hauptstraße 5, 79104 Freiburg, 
Germany; Freiburg Brain Imaging, University Medical Center Freiburg, Breisacher 
Straße 64, 79106 Freiburg, Germany.

Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is increasingly being recognized as an important 
issue in adult psychiatry and psychotherapy. High intelligence indicates overall 
good brain functioning and might thus present a particularly good opportunity to 
study possible cerebral correlates of core autistic features in terms of 
impaired social cognition, communication skills, the need for routines, and 
circumscribed interests. Anatomical MRI data sets for 30 highly intelligent 
patients with high-functioning autism and 30 pairwise-matched control subjects 
were acquired and analyzed with voxel-based morphometry. The gray matter volume 
of the pairwise-matched patients and the controls did not differ significantly. 
When correcting for total brain volume influences, the patients with ASD 
exhibited smaller left superior frontal volumes on a trend level. Heterogeneous 
volumetric findings in earlier studies might partly be explained by study 
samples biased by a high inclusion rate of secondary forms of ASD, which often 
go along with neuronal abnormalities. Including only patients with high IQ 
scores might have decreased the influence of secondary forms of ASD and might 
explain the absence of significant volumetric differences between the patients 
and the controls in this study.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pscychresns.2014.05.013
PMID: 24953998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


910. Homo. 2014 Oct;65(5):349-75. doi: 10.1016/j.jchb.2014.02.002. Epub 2014 May 23.

Absolute and relative endocranial size in Neandertals and later Pleistocene 
Homo.

Gallagher A(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Anthropological Research (CAfR), University of Johannesburg, 
Auckland Park 2006, Johannesburg, South Africa. Electronic address: 
agal1815@gmail.com.

Eurasian Neandertals encompass the entire observed range of recent and fossil 
Homo sapiens in absolute, but not relative endocranial volume, and Neandertals 
attest an average EQ significantly lower than their Upper Pleistocene 
successors. While the cognitive, social, and evolutionary implications of this 
phenomenon have been emphasised, the statistical basis of a mean inference of EQ 
in the Neandertal hypodigm has not been appropriately demonstrated. A 
demonstrable male bias in the available postcranial, not cranial, series has 
skewed perceptions of Neandertal brain-to-body size scaling towards a rejection 
of the null hypothesis. A simple resolution to this problem is a concise 
assessment of paired associated covariates against a suitable recent human 
comparator series. Permutations of Fisher's z and Student's t statistics are 
valid metrics in tests of significance in single datum hypotheses. Bootstrapped 
single observation tests determined significance in body size, absolute and 
relative endocranial volume in Pleistocene archaic, early modern, and late 
Pleistocene H. sapiens. With respect to absolute ECV, all current Middle-Upper 
Pleistocene crania fall within the substantial recent Homo range. Nevertheless, 
simple indices derived from raw and modified data in normal and logarithmic 
space reveal that Western European Neandertal males approach the lower extremes 
of our observed size range in relative ECV, yet none exceed statistical 
significance. Results confirm that relative ECV/brain size in Neandertals was 
not significantly depressed relative to recent and fossil H. sapiens and this is 
consistent with a substantial body of data from living humans dismissing any 
simple correspondence of relative brain size with intelligence and, by 
extension, evolutionary success.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jchb.2014.02.002
PMID: 24954798 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


911. Cognition. 2014 Sep;132(3):461-70. doi: 10.1016/j.cognition.2014.05.009. Epub 
2014 Jun 20.

Perceived stress during pregnancy and the catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) 
rs165599 polymorphism impacts on childhood IQ.

Lamb YN(1), Thompson JM(2), Murphy R(3), Wall C(4), Kirk IJ(1), Morgan AR(4), 
Ferguson LR(4), Mitchell EA(2), Waldie KE(5); ABC Study group.

Author information:
(1)School of Psychology, The University of Auckland, New Zealand.
(2)Department of Paediatrics, The University of Auckland, New Zealand.
(3)Department of Medicine, The University of Auckland, New Zealand.
(4)Discipline of Nutrition, University of Auckland, New Zealand.
(5)School of Psychology, The University of Auckland, New Zealand. Electronic 
address: k.waldie@auckland.ac.nz.

Maternal stress during pregnancy has been associated with a range of adverse 
outcomes in offspring and the catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) gene has been 
linked to differential susceptibility to the consequences of antenatal stress. 
This study examined two functional polymorphisms of the COMT gene (rs4680 and 
rs165599) in relation to maternal perceived stress and childhood cognitive 
performance. Data from the longitudinal Auckland Birthweight Collaborative (ABC) 
study was used. Maternal perceived stress over the prior month was measured at 
birth, 3.5 and 7years. Full-Scale IQ (FSIQ) was measured at ages 7 and 11. At 
age 11, a total of 546 DNA samples were collected from the child participants. 
Data were subjected to a series of split-plot ANCOVAs with birthweight for 
gestational age and maternal school leaving age as covariates. There were direct 
effects of maternal stress during the last month of pregnancy on offspring FSIQ 
at ages 7 and 11years. A significant interaction revealed that children exposed 
to high maternal antenatal stress had significantly lower FSIQ scores at both 7 
and 11years of age than those exposed to low stress, only when they were 
carriers of the rs165599 G allele. At each age, this difference was of 
approximately 5 IQ points. The G allele of the rs165599 polymorphism may confer 
genetic susceptibility to negative cognitive outcomes arising from exposure to 
antenatal stress. This finding highlights the need to consider gene-environment 
interactions when investigating the outcomes of antenatal stress exposure.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cognition.2014.05.009
PMID: 24955500 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


912. Child Neuropsychol. 2015;21(6):840-8. doi: 10.1080/09297049.2014.929101. Epub 
2014 Jun 23.

Brief report: Neurocognitive functioning in adolescents following childhood 
maltreatment and evidence for underlying planning & organizational deficits.

Kavanaugh B(1), Holler K(2).

Author information:
(1)a Department of Clinical Psychology , Antioch University New England , Keene 
, New Hampshire, USA.
(2)b Department of Psychiatry and Human Behavior , Alpert Medical School of 
Brown University , Providence , Rhode Island , USA.

Children and adolescents with a history of childhood maltreatment are at risk 
for a host of psychiatric conditions, although the underlying neurocognitive 
functioning of these individuals remains largely understudied. This study 
examined the neurocognitive functioning of childhood maltreatment victims in an 
adolescent psychiatric inpatient setting. The sample consisted of adolescent 
inpatients (ages 13-19) that completed intellectual testing as part of a 
neuropsychological/psychological assessment during hospitalization (n = 39). The 
sample was grouped based on childhood maltreatment history with one group 
categorized by maltreatment history (n = 15) and the other group characterized 
by no maltreatment history (n = 24). Analyses revealed statistically significant 
differences (p < .01) between maltreatment groups on the majority of assessed 
domains. When controlling for intelligence, only performance differences on the 
RCFT remained. RCFT differences remained after controlling for the influence of 
visual-motor and visual-perceptual/visual-spatial functioning, highlighting the 
influence of organizational and planning difficulties in those individuals with 
maltreatment history. Group differences in the frequency of impaired performance 
for neuropsychological tasks were largest (p < .001) for FSIQ and RCFT. 
Compromised neurocognitive functioning may negatively contribute to the clinical 
presentation of this population, highlighting the importance of the child 
neuropsychologist in the effective treatment of children and adolescents with a 
history of childhood maltreatment.

DOI: 10.1080/09297049.2014.929101
PMID: 24955614 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


913. Small. 2014 Nov;10(22):4626-35. doi: 10.1002/smll.201401309. Epub 2014 Jun 23.

Structural DNA nanotechnology for intelligent drug delivery.

Chao J(1), Liu H, Su S, Wang L, Huang W, Fan C.

Author information:
(1)Division of Physical Biology and Bioimaging Center, Shanghai Synchrotron 
Radiation Facility, CAS Key Laboratory of Interfacial Physics and Technology, 
Shanghai Institute of Applied Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai, 
201800, China; Key Laboratory for Organic Electronics & Information Displays 
(KLOEID), Institute of Advanced Materials (IAM) and School of Materials Science 
and Engineering, Nanjing University of Posts & Telecommunications, 9 Wenyuan 
Road, Nanjing, 210046, China.

Drug delivery carriers have been popularly employed to improve solubility, 
stability, and efficacy of chemical and biomolecular drugs. Despite the rapid 
progress in this field, it remains a great challenge to develop an ideal carrier 
with minimal cytotoxicity, high biocompatibility and intelligence for targeted 
controlled release. The emergence of DNA nanotechnology offers unprecedented 
opportunities in this regard. Due to the unparalleled self-recognition 
properties of DNA molecules, it is possible to create numerous artificial DNA 
nanostructures with well-defined structures and DNA nanodevices with precisely 
controlled motions. More importantly, recent studies have proven that DNA 
nanostructures possess greater permeability to the membrane barrier of cells, 
which pave the way to developing new drug delivery carriers with nucleic acids, 
are summarized. In this Concept, recent advances on the design and fabrication 
of both static and dynamic DNA nanostructures, and the use of these 
nanostructures for the delivery of various types of drugs, are highlighted. It 
is also demonstrated that dynamic DNA nanostructures provide the required 
intelligence to realize logically controlled drug release.

© 2014 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

DOI: 10.1002/smll.201401309
PMID: 24955859 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


914. Cognition. 2014 Oct;133(1):10-24. doi: 10.1016/j.cognition.2014.05.010. Epub 
2014 Jun 20.

How children perceive fractals: hierarchical self-similarity and cognitive 
development.

Martins MD(1), Laaha S(2), Freiberger EM(2), Choi S(3), Fitch WT(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cognitive Biology, University of Vienna, Althanstrasse 14, 
A-1090 Vienna, Austria; Language Research Laboratory, Lisbon Faculty of 
Medicine, Av. Professor Egas Moniz, 1649-028 Lisboa, Portugal. Electronic 
address: mauricio.martins@univie.ac.at.
(2)Department of Linguistics, University of Vienna, Porzellangasse 4, A-1090 
Vienna, Austria.
(3)Department of Linguistics, University of Vienna, Porzellangasse 4, A-1090 
Vienna, Austria; Department of Linguistics & Asian/Middle Eastern Languages, San 
Diego State University, 5500 Campanile Drive, San Diego, CA 92182-7727, USA.
(4)Department of Cognitive Biology, University of Vienna, Althanstrasse 14, 
A-1090 Vienna, Austria.

The ability to understand and generate hierarchical structures is a crucial 
component of human cognition, available in language, music, mathematics and 
problem solving. Recursion is a particularly useful mechanism for generating 
complex hierarchies by means of self-embedding rules. In the visual domain, 
fractals are recursive structures in which simple transformation rules generate 
hierarchies of infinite depth. Research on how children acquire these rules can 
provide valuable insight into the cognitive requirements and learning 
constraints of recursion. Here, we used fractals to investigate the acquisition 
of recursion in the visual domain, and probed for correlations with grammar 
comprehension and general intelligence. We compared second (n=26) and fourth 
graders (n=26) in their ability to represent two types of rules for generating 
hierarchical structures: Recursive rules, on the one hand, which generate new 
hierarchical levels; and iterative rules, on the other hand, which merely insert 
items within hierarchies without generating new levels. We found that the 
majority of fourth graders, but not second graders, were able to represent both 
recursive and iterative rules. This difference was partially accounted by second 
graders' impairment in detecting hierarchical mistakes, and correlated with 
between-grade differences in grammar comprehension tasks. Empirically, recursion 
and iteration also differed in at least one crucial aspect: While the ability to 
learn recursive rules seemed to depend on the previous acquisition of simple 
iterative representations, the opposite was not true, i.e., children were able 
to acquire iterative rules before they acquired recursive representations. These 
results suggest that the acquisition of recursion in vision follows learning 
constraints similar to the acquisition of recursion in language, and that both 
domains share cognitive resources involved in hierarchical processing.

Copyright © 2014 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cognition.2014.05.010
PMCID: PMC4148595
PMID: 24955884 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


915. J Child Adolesc Psychopharmacol. 2014 Aug;24(6):341-6. doi: 
10.1089/cap.2013.0090. Epub 2014 Jun 23.

A 36 month naturalistic retrospective study of clinic-treated youth with 
attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder.

Hong M(1), Lee WH, Moon DS, Lee SM, Chung US, Bahn GH.

Author information:
(1)1 Department of Neuropsychiatry, School of Medicine, Kyung Hee University , 
Seoul, Korea.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to investigate factors for 
pharmacotherapy adherence in patients with attention-deficit/hyperactivity 
disorder (ADHD), with an emphasis on medication possession ratio (MPR).
METHODS: The medical records of 300 clinic-treated youth diagnosed with ADHD 
were retrospectively reviewed. Patients from March 2005 through January 2009 
were diagnosed using the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, 
4(th) ed., Text Revision (DSM-IV-TR) and psychological tests. Patients were 
classified based on the time period from the initial visit to the last visit. We 
selectively compared the early dropout group within 6 months and the long-term 
medication group over 36 months (LMed) to identify long-term follow-up 
characteristics. The short-term follow-up group was divided into an early 
dropout group without pharmacotherapy commencement (EDO) and a short-term 
medication group (SMed). Sociodemographic data, psychological test scores, and 
average MPR of the EDO, SMed, and LMed groups were compared.
RESULTS: The number of EDO patients was 69 (23.0%) out of the 300 total patients 
who were studied, and there were 59 SMed patients (19.3%), and 60 LMed patients 
(20.0%). Compared with other groups, the EDO group included significantly more 
younger patients, younger parents, higher maternal education level, lower Short 
Form Korean-Conners' Parent Rating Scale (K-CPRS) score, and higher full scale 
and performance intelligence quotient (IQ). There was no significant correlation 
between the average MPR and the treatment duration.
CONCLUSIONS: Within the first 6 months of visiting the hospital, >40% of the 
patients dropped out of treatment regardless of methylphenidate (MPH) use. 
Twenty percent of the subjects showed adherence to MPH medication after 36 
months.

DOI: 10.1089/cap.2013.0090
PMID: 24955936 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


916. Sensors (Basel). 2014 Jun 20;14(6):11031-44. doi: 10.3390/s140611031.

A mobile device system for early warning of ECG anomalies.

Szczepański A(1), Saeed K(2).

Author information:
(1)AGH University of Science and Technology, Faculty of Physics and Applied 
Computer Science, 30 Mickiewicza Av., PL-30059, Krakow 004812, Poland. 
Adam.Szczepanski@fis.agh.edu.pl.
(2)AGH University of Science and Technology, Faculty of Physics and Applied 
Computer Science, 30 Mickiewicza Av., PL-30059, Krakow 004812, Poland. 
saeed@agh.edu.pl.

With the rapid increase in computational power of mobile devices the amount of 
ambient intelligence-based smart environment systems has increased greatly in 
recent years. A proposition of such a solution is described in this paper, 
namely real time monitoring of an electrocardiogram (ECG) signal during everyday 
activities for identification of life threatening situations. The paper, being 
both research and review, describes previous work of the authors, current state 
of the art in the context of the authors' work and the proposed aforementioned 
system. Although parts of the solution were described in earlier publications of 
the authors, the whole concept is presented completely for the first time along 
with the prototype implementation on mobile device-a Windows 8 tablet with 
Modern UI. The system has three main purposes. The first goal is the detection 
of sudden rapid cardiac malfunctions and informing the people in the patient's 
surroundings, family and friends and the nearest emergency station about the 
deteriorating health of the monitored person. The second goal is a monitoring of 
ECG signals under non-clinical conditions to detect anomalies that are typically 
not found during diagnostic tests. The third goal is to register and analyze 
repeatable, long-term disturbances in the regular signal and finding their 
patterns.

DOI: 10.3390/s140611031
PMCID: PMC4118409
PMID: 24955946 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


917. Psychol Aging. 2014 Jun;29(2):236-249. doi: 10.1037/a0036187.

Structure and correlates of cognitive aging in a narrow age cohort.

Tucker-Drob EM(1), Briley DA(1), Starr JM(2), Deary IJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology.
(2)Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, Department of 
Psychology.

Aging-related changes occur for multiple domains of cognitive functioning. An 
accumulating body of research indicates that, rather than representing 
statistically independent phenomena, aging-related cognitive changes are 
moderately to strongly correlated across domains. However, previous studies have 
typically been conducted in age-heterogeneous samples over longitudinal time 
lags of 6 or more years, and have failed to consider whether results are robust 
to a comprehensive set of controls. Capitalizing on 3-year longitudinal data 
from the Lothian Birth Cohort of 1936, we took a longitudinal narrow age cohort 
approach to examine cross-domain cognitive change interrelations from ages 70 to 
73 years. We fit multivariate latent difference score models to factors 
representing visuospatial ability, processing speed, memory, and crystallized 
ability. Changes were moderately interrelated, with a general factor of change 
accounting for 47% of the variance in changes across domains. Change 
interrelations persisted at close to full strength after controlling for a 
comprehensive set of demographic, physical, and medical factors including 
educational attainment, childhood intelligence, physical function, APOE 
genotype, smoking status, diagnosis of hypertension, diagnosis of cardiovascular 
disease, and diagnosis of diabetes. Thus, the positive manifold of aging-related 
cognitive changes is highly robust in that it can be detected in a narrow age 
cohort followed over a relatively brief longitudinal period, and persists even 
after controlling for many potential confounders.

PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/a0036187
PMCID: PMC4067230
PMID: 24955992 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


918. J Stroke Cerebrovasc Dis. 2014 Aug;23(7):1789-94. doi: 
10.1016/j.jstrokecerebrovasdis.2014.04.032. Epub 2014 Jun 21.

Cognitive function of patients with adult moyamoya disease.

Araki Y(1), Takagi Y(2), Ueda K(3), Ubukata S(3), Ishida J(4), Funaki T(2), 
Kikuchi T(2), Takahashi JC(2), Murai T(3), Miyamoto S(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Kyoto University Graduate School of Medicine, 
Kyoto. Electronic address: y.araki@med.nagoya-u.ac.jp.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, Kyoto University Graduate School of Medicine, 
Kyoto.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, Kyoto University Graduate School of Medicine, 
Kyoto.
(4)Department of Rehabilitation, Kyoto University Hospital, Kyoto, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Neurocognitive impairment is one of several unsolved social issues 
faced by patients with moyamoya disease. Although efforts have been made to 
investigate cognitive function using neuropsychologic tasks, generalizability 
has been limited. Here, in a preliminary study, we used structured 
neuropsychologic tasks to establish a standardized neuropsychologic assessment 
for adult moyamoya patients with and without difficulty in social independence.
METHODS: Ten patients with neuroradiologically confirmed adult moyamoya disease 
(3 male, 7 female) participated. Half of all subjects did not have difficulty 
with social independence (group 1) and the others had (group 2). Group 
differences were evaluated after basic cognitive abilities and frontal lobe 
function were tested.
RESULTS: Although the mean age of group 1 was substantially higher than that of 
group 2, disease duration did not differ significantly between groups. Means 
scores for intelligence functions including all subtests for basic cognitive 
abilities were higher in group 1 compared with group 2. Scores from only 2 
frontal lobe evaluation tasks (Trail Making Test B and Theory of Mind) were 
significantly different between groups.
CONCLUSIONS: This preliminary study provides a profile of neurocognitive 
dysfunction in adult patients with moyamoya disease using structured 
neuropsychologic tasks. A broad range of cognitive functions was disrupted 
particularly in the patients who had difficulty with social independence. To 
obtain stronger evidence regarding neurocognitive dysfunction in patients with 
moyamoya disease, a multicenter prospective study is essential.

Copyright © 2014 National Stroke Association. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jstrokecerebrovasdis.2014.04.032
PMID: 24957308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


919. J Med Syst. 2014 Aug;38(8):60. doi: 10.1007/s10916-014-0060-y. Epub 2014 Jun 24.

Comparison of AI techniques for prediction of liver fibrosis in hepatitis 
patients.

Keltch B(1), Lin Y, Bayrak C.

Author information:
(1)Computer Science Department, University of Arkansas at Little Rock, Little 
Rock, AR, 72204, USA, bwkeltch@ualr.edu.

Globally one in twelve people have the Hepatitis B or Hepatitis C virus. 
Diagnosis and treatment of this disease is guided by liver biopsies where a 
small amount of tissue is removed by a surgeon and examined by a pathologist to 
determine the fibrosis stage from F(0) (no damage) to F(4) (cirrhosis). Biopsies 
are costly and carry some risk for the patient. Non-invasive techniques for 
determining fibrosis stage have been developed and evaluated since 2003. 
Non-invasive methods have utilized serum markers, imaging test, and genetic 
studies. The accuracy of these non-invasive techniques has not achieved 
sufficient acceptance and so the invasive biopsy is still considered the gold 
standard.Clinical decision support systems (CDSS) use decision support system 
theory and technology to assist clinicians in the evaluation and treatment 
process. Using historical clinical data and the relationship processed by 
Artificial Intelligence (AI) techniques to aid physicians in their decision 
making process is the goal of CDSS. The CDSS provides a large number of medical 
support functions to help clinicians make the most reasonable diagnosis and 
choose the best treatment measures.This paper applies four artificial 
intelligence predictive techniques to publicly available data on 424 Hepatitis B 
and Hepatitis C patients. Demographic and standard serum markers are utilized to 
predict fibrosis stage and compare these predictions to known biopsy results. A 
final decision tree evaluation is applied to make a final prediction. We have 
also developed a publically available web application that can be used as a 
prototype for presenting AI predictive results in a CDSS environment based on 
these models. This technique along with others could mitigate the need for some 
liver biopsies in the more than 500 million Hepatitis B and C patients worldwide 
with additional validation and verification.

DOI: 10.1007/s10916-014-0060-y
PMID: 24957386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


920. J Learn Disabil. 2016 Mar-Apr;49(2):216-24. doi: 10.1177/0022219414539565. Epub 
2014 Jun 23.

Structural Validity of the WISC-IV for Students With Learning Disabilities.

Styck KM(1), Watkins MW(2).

Author information:
(1)University of Texas at San Antonio, USA Kara.Styck@utsa.edu.
(2)Baylor University, Waco, TX, USA.

The structural validity of the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children-Fourth 
Edition (WISC-IV) was evaluated using confirmatory factor analysis for a 
clinical sample of 1,537 students diagnosed with specific learning disabilities 
(SLD) by school psychologists in two large southwestern school districts. 
Results indicated that a bifactor model consisting of four first-order domain 
specific factors and a general intelligence breadth factor fit the data best. 
Consequently, the structural validity of the WISC-IV for students with SLD was 
supported by the results of the present study. The general intelligence factor 
contributed the most information, accounting for 48% of the common variance. 
Given this structure, it was recommended that score interpretation should 
emphasize the Full-Scale IQ score because of the marginal contributions of the 
first-order domain-specific factors and their low precision of measurement 
independent of the general factor.

© Hammill Institute on Disabilities 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/0022219414539565
PMID: 24958633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


921. Front Psychol. 2014 Jun 10;5:570. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.00570. eCollection 
2014.

How emotions affect logical reasoning: evidence from experiments with 
mood-manipulated participants, spider phobics, and people with exam anxiety.

Jung N(1), Wranke C(1), Hamburger K(1), Knauff M(1).

Author information:
(1)Experimental Psychology and Cognitive Science, Justus Liebig University 
Giessen, Germany.

Recent experimental studies show that emotions can have a significant effect on 
the way we think, decide, and solve problems. This paper presents a series of 
four experiments on how emotions affect logical reasoning. In two experiments 
different groups of participants first had to pass a manipulated intelligence 
test. Their emotional state was altered by giving them feedback, that they 
performed excellent, poor or on average. Then they completed a set of logical 
inference problems (with if p, then q statements) either in a Wason selection 
task paradigm or problems from the logical propositional calculus. Problem 
content also had either a positive, negative or neutral emotional value. Results 
showed a clear effect of emotions on reasoning performance. Participants in 
negative mood performed worse than participants in positive mood, but both 
groups were outperformed by the neutral mood reasoners. Problem content also had 
an effect on reasoning performance. In a second set of experiments, participants 
with exam or spider phobia solved logical problems with contents that were 
related to their anxiety disorder (spiders or exams). Spider phobic 
participants' performance was lowered by the spider-content, while exam anxious 
participants were not affected by the exam-related problem content. Overall, 
unlike some previous studies, no evidence was found that performance is improved 
when emotion and content are congruent. These results have consequences for 
cognitive reasoning research and also for cognitively oriented psychotherapy and 
the treatment of disorders like depression and anxiety.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.00570
PMCID: PMC4050437
PMID: 24959160


922. ScientificWorldJournal. 2014;2014:167124. doi: 10.1155/2014/167124. Epub 2014 
May 14.

The research on web-based testing environment using simulated annealing 
algorithm.

Lu P(1), Cong X(2), Zhou D(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Media Technology and Communication, Northeast Dianli 
University, Jilin, Jilin 132012, China.
(2)College of Science, Northeast Dianli University, Jilin, Jilin 132012, China.
(3)School of Software, Northeast Normal University, Jilin, Changchun 130117, 
China.

The computerized evaluation is now one of the most important methods to diagnose 
learning; with the application of artificial intelligence techniques in the 
field of evaluation, the computerized adaptive testing gradually becomes one of 
the most important evaluation methods. In this test, the computer dynamic 
updates the learner's ability level and selects tailored items from the item 
pool. In order to meet the needs of the test it requires that the system has a 
relatively high efficiency of the implementation. To solve this problem, we 
proposed a novel method of web-based testing environment based on simulated 
annealing algorithm. In the development of the system, through a series of 
experiments, we compared the simulated annealing method and other methods of the 
efficiency and efficacy. The experimental results show that this method ensures 
choosing nearly optimal items from the item bank for learners, meeting a variety 
of assessment needs, being reliable, and having valid judgment in the ability of 
learners. In addition, using simulated annealing algorithm to solve the 
computing complexity of the system greatly improves the efficiency of select 
items from system and near-optimal solutions.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/167124
PMCID: PMC4052093
PMID: 24959600 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


923. ScientificWorldJournal. 2014;2014:270171. doi: 10.1155/2014/270171. Epub 2014 
May 14.

Episodic reasoning for vision-based human action recognition.

Santofimia MJ(1), Martinez-del-Rincon J(2), Nebel JC(3).

Author information:
(1)Computer Architecture and Network Group, School of Computer Science, 
University of Castilla-La Mancha, 13072 Ciudad Real, Spain.
(2)The Institute of Electronics, Communications and Information Technology 
(ECIT), Queens University of Belfast, Belfast BT3 9DT, UK.
(3)Digital Imaging Research Centre, Kingston University, London KT1 2EE, UK.

Smart Spaces, Ambient Intelligence, and Ambient Assisted Living are 
environmental paradigms that strongly depend on their capability to recognize 
human actions. While most solutions rest on sensor value interpretations and 
video analysis applications, few have realized the importance of incorporating 
common-sense capabilities to support the recognition process. Unfortunately, 
human action recognition cannot be successfully accomplished by only analyzing 
body postures. On the contrary, this task should be supported by profound 
knowledge of human agency nature and its tight connection to the reasons and 
motivations that explain it. The combination of this knowledge and the knowledge 
about how the world works is essential for recognizing and understanding human 
actions without committing common-senseless mistakes. This work demonstrates the 
impact that episodic reasoning has in improving the accuracy of a computer 
vision system for human action recognition. This work also presents 
formalization, implementation, and evaluation details of the knowledge model 
that supports the episodic reasoning.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/270171
PMCID: PMC4052108
PMID: 24959602 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


924. Dev Neurorehabil. 2016 Jun;19(3):154-61. doi: 10.3109/17518423.2014.927017. Epub 
2014 Jun 24.

Resilience and emotional intelligence in children with high-functioning autism 
spectrum disorder.

McCrimmon AW(1), Matchullis RL(1), Altomare AA(1).

Author information:
(1)a Werklund School of Education, University of Calgary , Calgary , Alberta , 
Canada.

PURPOSE: This article presents the results of an investigation of resilience 
factors and their relation to emotional intelligence (EI) as an area of 
potential strength for children with high-functioning autism spectrum disorder 
(HFASD). Based upon previous research with young adults, it was hypothesized 
that children with HFASD would demonstrate reduced EI and differential relations 
between EI and resilience as compared to typically developing (TD) children.
METHODS: Forty children aged 8-12 years (20 with HFASD and 20 TD control 
children) completed measures of resilience and EI.
RESULTS: Children with HFASD did not significantly differ from TD children on 
either measure. However, several significant correlations between resilience and 
EI were found in the HFASD sample.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings suggest that EI may be a unique area of interest for 
this population, particularly for interventions that propose to capitalize upon 
potentially inherent strengths. Implications of these results for intervention 
are discussed.

DOI: 10.3109/17518423.2014.927017
PMID: 24960312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


925. Case Rep Crit Care. 2014;2014:906283. doi: 10.1155/2014/906283. Epub 2014 May 
20.

Starvation ketoacidosis: a cause of severe anion gap metabolic acidosis in 
pregnancy.

Sinha N(1), Venkatram S(1), Diaz-Fuentes G(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Bronx Lebanon Hospital 
Center and Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY 10457, USA.

Pregnancy is a diabetogenic state characterized by relative insulin resistance, 
enhanced lipolysis, elevated free fatty acids and increased ketogenesis. In this 
setting, short period of starvation can precipitate ketoacidosis. This sequence 
of events is recognized as "accelerated starvation." Metabolic acidosis during 
pregnancy may have adverse impact on fetal neural development including impaired 
intelligence and fetal demise. Short periods of starvation during pregnancy may 
present as severe anion gap metabolic acidosis (AGMA). We present a 41-year-old 
female in her 32nd week of pregnancy, admitted with severe AGMA with pH 7.16, 
anion gap 31, and bicarbonate of 5 mg/dL with normal lactate levels. She was 
intubated and accepted to medical intensive care unit. Urine and serum acetone 
were positive. Evaluation for all causes of AGMA was negative. The diagnosis of 
starvation ketoacidosis was established in absence of other causes of AGMA. 
Intravenous fluids, dextrose, thiamine, and folic acid were administered with 
resolution of acidosis, early extubation, and subsequent normal delivery of a 
healthy baby at full term. Rapid reversal of acidosis and favorable outcome are 
achieved with early administration of dextrose containing fluids.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/906283
PMCID: PMC4055099
PMID: 24963418


926. J Clin Exp Neuropsychol. 2014;36(7):716-29. doi: 10.1080/13803395.2014.933779. 
Epub 2014 Jun 26.

An investigation of attention, executive, and psychomotor aspects of cognitive 
fatigability.

Möller MC(1), Nygren de Boussard C, Oldenburg C, Bartfai A.

Author information:
(1)a Centre for Clinical Research Sörmland, Uppsala University , Uppsala , 
Sweden.

OBJECTIVE: Self-perceived mental fatigue is a common presenting symptom in many 
neurological diseases. Discriminating objective fatigability from self-perceived 
mental fatigue might facilitate neuropsychological diagnosis and treatment 
programs. However clinically valid neuropsychological instruments suitable for 
assessment of fatigability are still lacking. The prime aim of the study was to 
investigate aspects of cognitive fatigability and to identify properties of 
neuropsychological tests suitable to assess fatigability in patients with 
persistent cognitive complaints after mild brain injury. Another aim was to 
investigate whether cognitive fatigability captured by neuropsychological 
measures is influenced by depression or sleep disturbances.
METHOD: Twenty-four patients with persistent cognitive symptoms after mild 
traumatic brain injury (mTBI), (aged 18-51 years) and 31 healthy controls (aged 
20-49 years) underwent neuropsychological testing measuring three cognitive 
fatigability domains: Attention fatigability was assessed using the Ruff 2 & 7 
Selective Attention Test, executive fatigability using the Color Word Test 
(Stroop), and psychomotor fatigability using the Digit Symbol Substitution Test 
from the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Third Edition (WAIS-III). Subjective 
fatigue was measured using the Fatigue Severity Scale and a questionnaire of 
everyday consequences of fatigue. Depression was screened using the Hospital 
Anxiety and Depression Scale and sleep disturbances using the Pittsburgh Sleep 
Quality Index.
RESULTS: The patients reported significantly more mental fatigue and performed 
worse on tests of psychomotor and executive fatigability than the healthy 
controls. Furthermore, the cognitive fatigability measures were not influenced 
by depression or sleep disturbances, as was the case in self-reported fatigue.
CONCLUSION: Tests demanding executive or simultaneous processing of several 
neuropsychological functions seem most sensitive in order to capture cognitive 
fatigability. Clinical tests that can capture fatigability enable a deeper 
understanding of how fatigability might contribute to cognitive complaints and 
problems in maintaining daily activities.

DOI: 10.1080/13803395.2014.933779
PMID: 24965830 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


927. Front Psychol. 2014 Jun 11;5:543. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.00543. eCollection 
2014.

Event-related brain potentials to emotional images and gonadal steroid hormone 
levels in patients with schizophrenia and paired controls.

Champagne J(1), Mendrek A(2), Germain M(1), Hot P(3), Lavoie ME(1).

Author information:
(1)Axe de Neurobiologie Cognitive, Laboratoire de Psychophysiologie Cognitive et 
Sociale, Centre de Recherche de l'Institut Universitaire en Santé Mentale de 
Montréal Montréal, QC, Canada ; Department of Psychiatry, Université de Montréal 
Montréal, QC, Canada.
(2)Axe de Neurobiologie Cognitive, Laboratoire de Psychophysiologie Cognitive et 
Sociale, Centre de Recherche de l'Institut Universitaire en Santé Mentale de 
Montréal Montréal, QC, Canada ; Department of Psychology, Bishop's University, 
Sherbrooke QC, Canada.
(3)Laboratoire de Psychologie et Neurocognition, Université de Savoie Chambéry, 
France.

Prominent disturbances in the experience, expression, and emotion recognition in 
patients with schizophrenia have been relatively well documented over the last 
few years. Furthermore, sex differences in behavior and brain activity, 
associated with the processing of various emotions, have been reported in the 
general population and in schizophrenia patients. Others proposed that sex 
differences should be rather attributed to testosterone, which may play a role 
in the etiology of schizophrenia. Also, it had been suggested that estradiol may 
play a protective role in schizophrenia. Surprisingly, few studies investigating 
this pathology have focused on both brain substrates and gonadal steroid hormone 
levels, in emotional processing. In the present study, we investigated 
electrocortical responses related to emotional valence and arousal as well as 
gonadal steroid hormone levels in patients with schizophrenia. Event-Related 
Potentials (ERP) were recorded during exposition to emotional pictures in 18 
patients with schizophrenia and in 24 control participants paired on 
intelligence, manual dominance and socioeconomic status. Given their previous 
sensitivity to emotional and attention processes, the P200, N200 and the P300 
were selected for analysis. More precisely, emotional valence generally affects 
early components (N200), which reflect early process of selective attention, 
whereas emotional arousal and valence both influences the P300 component, which 
is related to memory context updating, and stimulus categorization. Results 
showed that, in the control group, the amplitude of the N200 was significantly 
more lateralized over the right hemisphere, while there was no such 
lateralization in patients with schizophrenia. In patients with schizophrenia, 
significantly smaller anterior P300 amplitude was observed to the unpleasant, 
compared to the pleasant. That anterior P300 reduction was also correlated with 
negative symptoms. The N200 and P300 amplitudes were positively correlated with 
the estradiol level in all conditions, revealing that the N200 and the P300 were 
reduced, when estradiol level was higher. Conversely, only the P300 amplitude 
showed positive correlation with the testosterone level.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.00543
PMCID: PMC4052747
PMID: 24966840


928. Cogn Behav Neurol. 2014 Jun;27(2):88-95. doi: 10.1097/WNN.0000000000000026.

A girl with tuberous sclerosis complex presenting with severe epilepsy and 
electrical status epilepticus during sleep, and with high-functioning autism and 
mutism.

Pacheva I(1), Panov G, Gillberg C, Neville B.

Author information:
(1)*Department of Pediatrics and Medical Genetics, Medical University, Plovdiv, 
Bulgaria †Neurology and Neurophysiology Unit, Hospital Stoyan Kirkovich, Stara 
Zagora, Bulgaria ‡Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Gothenburg 
University, Gothenburg, Sweden §Neurosciences Unit, Institute of Child Health, 
University College London, London, UK ∥Young Epilepsy, Lingfield, Surrey, UK.

Most patients with tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) suffer from epilepsy, and 
many have cognitive and behavioral problems like severe intellectual disability, 
autism, and hyperactivity. Only rare patients with TSC and autism have a normal 
intelligence quotient. We report a 13-year-old girl with definite TSC who had 
early-onset severe epilepsy, autistic behavior, and moderate developmental 
delay. By school age, however, she had normal intelligence; her intelligence 
quotient was at least 70 based on a Stanford-Binet test that she refused to 
complete. She showed good reading, writing, and language comprehension skills, 
and the special abilities of hyperlexia, hypermnesia, and hypercalculia. 
However, she did not speak. Criteria of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of 
Mental Disorders, 4th edition, and her Childhood Autism Rating Scale score of 36 
indicated mild to moderate autism. She had severe electroencephalographic 
abnormalities: hypsarrhythmia, multifocal or generalized epileptiform 
discharges, and electrical status epilepticus during sleep, with a continuous 
left temporal focus. Magnetic resonance imaging showed many cortical tubers in 
all brain lobes, and subependymal nodules. We discuss possible explanations for 
her lack of speech. Considered as speech apraxia, her mutism could be either a 
symptom of her TSC or a component of her autism. Another possibility is that 
long-lasting electrical status epilepticus during sleep led to her autistic 
behavior and language arrest. Still another possibility is that a disinhibited 
mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) pathway was at the root of all of her 
neuropsychiatric symptoms.

DOI: 10.1097/WNN.0000000000000026
PMID: 24968009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


929. Healthc Financ Manage. 2014 Jun;68(6):56-8.

The integration aspiration.

Moore KD, Eyestone KM, Coddington DC.

Integration is a common goal when health systems acquire medical practices, but 
may take various forms and continue to evolve beyond the classic model. 
Characteristics of the classic model of integration include strong and committed 
physician leadership, an emphasis on care coordination, easy access to primary 
care, integrated IT and business intelligence, and a willingness to accept 
financial risk. Leaders of integrated delivery systems continue to strive for 
greater levels of coordination and leveraging of collected talents and 
resources.

PMID: 24968627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


930. Rom J Morphol Embryol. 2014;55(2):413-8.

Atypical Bourneville sclerosis without epilepsy and mental retardation: case 
report and literature review.

Ciobanu AM(1), Lisievici MG, Coman TC, Ciurea J, Popa MC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, "Carol Davila" University of Medicine and Pharmacy, 
1st Department, "Prof. Dr. Alexandru Obregia" Clinical Psychiatry Hospital, 
Bucharest, Romania; adela.ciobanu@gmail.com.

Twenty-four-year-old woman without familiar detected signs of Bourneville's 
disease or tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) was diagnosed with this disease by 
casual discovery on cerebral magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of an 
intraventricular tumor, after symptoms consist in headache, equilibrium 
disturbances, and progressive loss of vision. MRI shows an intracranial mass, 
33÷24÷30 mm in size, localized at the level of third ventricle and lateral 
ventricles, with irregular shape, interesting the foramen of Monroe. There are 
also nodular areas of calcification and a supratentorial hydrocephalus involving 
the lateral ventricles and the posterior part of the third ventricle. The 
patients present facial angiofibromas, but from the classical triad of the 
disease, the epilepsy and mental retardation were absent, the patient never 
presented seizures. The total removal of the tumor (peace to peace) was 
performed surgically, the macroscopic features of resected tumor (20/10/10 mm) 
was of white-gray color, elastic consistency, localized in the both lateral 
ventricles (left>right) and into the third ventricle, traversing the foramen 
Monroe. The histopatological examination associated with specific localization 
of tumor and the facial angiofibromas are very suggestive for subependimar giant 
cell astrocytoma (SEGA). We have a rare case of atypical or incomplete TSC in 
which the epileptic seizures and the mental retardation are absent, the 
intelligence is normal, but occur some psychical symptoms: anxiety, 
sleeplessness, and autism or behavior disturbances. The evolution of this case 
was marked by complications because of postoperative hydrocephalus and multiple 
shunt insertions and revisions were performed after the tumor resection.

PMID: 24969994 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


931. Euro Surveill. 2014 Jun 19;19(24):20832. doi: 
10.2807/1560-7917.es2014.19.24.20832.

Evaluation of the Health Protection Event-Based Surveillance for the London 2012 
Olympic and Paralympic Games.

Severi E(1), Kitching A, Crook P.

Author information:
(1)Health Protection Agency, London regional Epidemiology Unit, London, United 
Kingdom.

The Health Protection Agency (HPA) (currently Public Health England) implemented 
the Health Protection Event-Based Surveillance (EBS) to provide additional 
national epidemic intelligence for the 2012 London Olympic and Paralympic Games 
(the Games). We describe EBS and evaluate the system attributes. EBS aimed at 
identifying, assessing and reporting to the HPA Olympic Coordination Centre 
(OCC) possible national infectious disease threats that may significantly impact 
the Games. EBS reported events in England from 2 July to 12 September 2012. EBS 
sourced events from reports from local health protection units and from 
screening an electronic application 'HPZone Dashboard' (DB). During this period, 
147 new events were reported to EBS, mostly food-borne and vaccine-preventable 
diseases: 79 from regional units, 144 from DB (76 from both). EBS reported 61 
events to the OCC: 21 of these were reported onwards. EBS sensitivity was 95.2%; 
positive predictive value was 32.8%; reports were timely (median one day; 10th 
percentile: 0 days - same day; 90th percentile: 3.6 days); completeness was 
99.7%; stability was 100%; EBS simplicity was assessed as good; the daily time 
per regional or national unit dedicated to EBS was approximately 4 hours 
(weekdays) and 3 hours (weekends). OCC directors judged EBS as efficient, fast 
and responsive. EBS provided reliable, reassuring, timely, simple and stable 
national epidemic intelligence for the Games.

DOI: 10.2807/1560-7917.es2014.19.24.20832
PMID: 24970374 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


932. AAPS PharmSciTech. 2014 Dec;15(6):1447-53. doi: 10.1208/s12249-014-0174-z. Epub 
2014 Jun 27.

Integrating artificial and human intelligence into tablet production process.

Gams M(1), Horvat M, Ožek M, Luštrek M, Gradišek A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Intelligent Systems, Jožef Stefan Institute, Jamova 39, 
SI-1000, Ljubljana, Slovenia.

We developed a new machine learning-based method in order to facilitate the 
manufacturing processes of pharmaceutical products, such as tablets, in 
accordance with the Process Analytical Technology (PAT) and Quality by Design 
(QbD) initiatives. Our approach combines the data, available from prior 
production runs, with machine learning algorithms that are assisted by a human 
operator with expert knowledge of the production process. The process parameters 
encompass those that relate to the attributes of the precursor raw materials and 
those that relate to the manufacturing process itself. During manufacturing, our 
method allows production operator to inspect the impacts of various settings of 
process parameters within their proven acceptable range with the purpose of 
choosing the most promising values in advance of the actual batch manufacture. 
The interaction between the human operator and the artificial intelligence 
system provides improved performance and quality. We successfully implemented 
the method on data provided by a pharmaceutical company for a particular 
product, a tablet, under development. We tested the accuracy of the method in 
comparison with some other machine learning approaches. The method is especially 
suitable for analyzing manufacturing processes characterized by a limited amount 
of data.

DOI: 10.1208/s12249-014-0174-z
PMCID: PMC4245424
PMID: 24970587 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


933. Trends Cogn Sci. 2014 Jul;18(7):334-6. doi: 10.1016/j.tics.2014.03.009.

The case for an ecological approach to cognitive training.

Moreau D(1), Conway AR(2).

Author information:
(1)Princeton University, Princeton, NJ, USA. Electronic address: 
dmoreau@princeton.edu.
(2)Princeton University, Princeton, NJ, USA.

Strong claims have been made about the efficacy of cognitive training. In 
particular, the idea that working memory (WM) training enhances intelligence 
initially generated enthusiasm but, on further inspection, is now met with 
skepticism. In our view, this is an unfortunate setback due to inappropriate 
task design and does not refute the core idea of cognitive enhancement. Growing 
evidence suggests that successful training programs integrate complexity, 
novelty, and diversity to maximize ecological validity.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tics.2014.03.009
PMID: 24972505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


934. ISA Trans. 2014 Sep;53(5):1603-8. doi: 10.1016/j.isatra.2014.05.024. Epub 2014 
Jun 24.

A double-loop structure in the adaptive generalized predictive control algorithm 
for control of robot end-point contact force.

Wen S(1), Zhu J(2), Li X(2), Chen S(3).

Author information:
(1)Key Lab of Industrial Computer Control Engineering of Hebei Province, Yanshan 
University, Qinhuangdao 066004, China. Electronic address: wenshuhuan@sohu.com.
(2)Key Lab of Industrial Computer Control Engineering of Hebei Province, Yanshan 
University, Qinhuangdao 066004, China.
(3)College of Computer Science, Zhejiang University of Technology, Hangzhou 
310023, China. Electronic address: sy@ieee.org.

Robot force control is an essential issue in robotic intelligence. There is much 
high uncertainty when robot end-effector contacts with the environment. Because 
of the environment stiffness effects on the system of the robot end-effector 
contact with environment, the adaptive generalized predictive control algorithm 
based on quantitative feedback theory is designed for robot end-point contact 
force system. The controller of the internal loop is designed on the foundation 
of QFT to control the uncertainty of the system. An adaptive GPC algorithm is 
used to design external loop controller to improve the performance and the 
robustness of the system. Two closed loops used in the design approach realize 
the system׳s performance and improve the robustness. The simulation results show 
that the algorithm of the robot end-effector contacting force control system is 
effective.

Copyright © 2014 ISA. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.isatra.2014.05.024
PMID: 24973336 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


935. Res Dev Disabil. 2014 Oct;35(10):2403-15. doi: 10.1016/j.ridd.2014.06.010. Epub 
2014 Jun 26.

Characterizing associations and dissociations between anxiety, social, and 
cognitive phenotypes of Williams syndrome.

Ng R(1), Järvinen A(2), Bellugi U(3).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory for Cognitive Neuroscience, Salk Institute for Biological Studies, 
USA; University of Minnesota, Twin Cities, Institute of Child Development, USA.
(2)Laboratory for Cognitive Neuroscience, Salk Institute for Biological Studies, 
USA. Electronic address: pasley@salk.edu.
(3)Laboratory for Cognitive Neuroscience, Salk Institute for Biological Studies, 
USA.

Williams syndrome (WS) is a neurogenetic disorder known for its "hypersocial" 
phenotype and a complex profile of anxieties. The anxieties are poorly 
understood specifically in relation to the social-emotional and cognitive 
profiles. To address this gap, we employed a Wechsler intelligence test, the 
Brief Symptom Inventory, Beck Anxiety Inventory, and Salk Institute Sociability 
Questionnaire, to (1) examine how anxiety symptoms distinguish individuals with 
WS from typically developing (TD) individuals; and (2) assess the associations 
between three key phenotypic features of WS: intellectual impairment, 
social-emotional functioning, and anxiety. The results highlighted intensified 
neurophysiological symptoms and subjective experiences of anxiety in WS. 
Moreover, whereas higher cognitive ability was positively associated with 
anxiety in WS, the opposite pattern characterized the TD individuals. This study 
provides novel insight into how the three core phenotypic features 
associate/dissociate in WS, specifically in terms of the contribution of 
cognitive and emotional functioning to anxiety symptoms.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ridd.2014.06.010
PMCID: PMC4112021
PMID: 24973548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


936. Genes Brain Behav. 2014 Sep;13(7):663-74. doi: 10.1111/gbb.12152. Epub 2014 Aug 
8.

GWAS-based pathway analysis differentiates between fluid and crystallized 
intelligence.

Christoforou A(1), Espeseth T, Davies G, Fernandes CP, Giddaluru S, Mattheisen 
M, Tenesa A, Harris SE, Liewald DC, Payton A, Ollier W, Horan M, Pendleton N, 
Haggarty P, Djurovic S, Herms S, Hoffman P, Cichon S, Starr JM, Lundervold A, 
Reinvang I, Steen VM, Deary IJ, Le Hellard S.

Author information:
(1)K.G. Jebsen Centre for Psychosis Research, Norwegian Centre for Mental 
Disorders Research (NORMENT), Department of Clinical Science, University of 
Bergen; Dr. Einar Martens Research Group for Biological Psychiatry, Centre for 
Medical Genetics and Molecular Medicine, Haukeland University Hospital, Bergen.

Cognitive abilities vary among people. About 40-50% of this variability is due 
to general intelligence (g), which reflects the positive correlation among 
individuals' scores on diverse cognitive ability tests. g is positively 
correlated with many life outcomes, such as education, occupational status and 
health, motivating the investigation of its underlying biology. In psychometric 
research, a distinction is made between general fluid intelligence (gF) - the 
ability to reason in novel situations - and general crystallized intelligence 
(gC) - the ability to apply acquired knowledge. This distinction is supported by 
developmental and cognitive neuroscience studies. Classical epidemiological 
studies and recent genome-wide association studies (GWASs) have established that 
these cognitive traits have a large genetic component. However, no robust 
genetic associations have been published thus far due largely to the known 
polygenic nature of these traits and insufficient sample sizes. Here, using two 
GWAS datasets, in which the polygenicity of gF and gC traits was previously 
confirmed, a gene- and pathway-based approach was undertaken with the aim of 
characterizing and differentiating their genetic architecture. Pathway analysis, 
using genes selected on the basis of relaxed criteria, revealed notable 
differences between these two traits. gF appeared to be characterized by genes 
affecting the quantity and quality of neurons and therefore neuronal efficiency, 
whereas long-term depression (LTD) seemed to underlie gC. Thus, this study 
supports the gF-gC distinction at the genetic level and identifies functional 
annotations and pathways worthy of further investigation.

© 2014 The Authors. Genes, Brain and Behavior published by International 
Behavioural and Neural Genetics Society and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/gbb.12152
PMCID: PMC4261989
PMID: 24975275 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


937. Hum Brain Mapp. 2014 Nov;35(11):5686-700. doi: 10.1002/hbm.22580. Epub 2014 Jun 
30.

Impaired development of intrinsic connectivity networks in children with 
medically intractable localization-related epilepsy.

Ibrahim GM(1), Morgan BR, Lee W, Smith ML, Donner EJ, Wang F, Beers CA, Federico 
P, Taylor MJ, Doesburg SM, Rutka JT, Snead OC 3rd.

Author information:
(1)Division of Neurosurgery, Hospital for Sick Children, Department of Surgery, 
University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada; Institute of Medical Science, 
University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

Typical childhood development is characterized by the emergence of intrinsic 
connectivity networks (ICNs) by way of internetwork segregation and intranetwork 
integration. The impact of childhood epilepsy on the maturation of ICNs is, 
however, poorly understood. The developmental trajectory of ICNs in 26 children 
(8-17 years) with localization-related epilepsy and 28 propensity-score matched 
controls was evaluated using graph theoretical analysis of whole brain 
connectomes from resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) 
data. Children with epilepsy demonstrated impaired development of regional hubs 
in nodes of the salience and default mode networks (DMN). Seed-based 
connectivity and hierarchical clustering analysis revealed significantly 
decreased intranetwork connections, and greater internetwork connectivity in 
children with epilepsy compared to controls. Significant interactions were 
identified between epilepsy duration and the expected developmental trajectory 
of ICNs, indicating that prolonged epilepsy may cause progressive alternations 
in large-scale networks throughout childhood. DMN integration was also 
associated with better working memory, whereas internetwork segregation was 
associated with higher full-scale intelligence quotient scores. Furthermore, 
subgroup analyses revealed the thalamus, hippocampus, and caudate were weaker 
hubs in children with secondarily generalized seizures, relative to other 
patient subgroups. Our findings underscore that epilepsy interferes with the 
developmental trajectory of brain networks underlying cognition, providing 
evidence supporting the early treatment of affected children.

Copyright © 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/hbm.22580
PMCID: PMC6869397
PMID: 24976288 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


938. Acta Paediatr. 2014 Oct;103(10):1066-71. doi: 10.1111/apa.12728. Epub 2014 Aug 
2.

Adolescents born prematurely with isolated grade 2 haemorrhage in the early 
1990s face increased risks of learning challenges.

Vohr BR(1), Allan W, Katz KH, Schneider K, Tucker R, Ment LR.

Author information:
(1)Pediatrics, Alpert Medical School of Brown University, Providence, RI, USA; 
Women and Infants Hospital, Providence, RI, USA.

AIM: To compare the impact of low-grade haemorrhage on neurocognitive function 
in 16-year-old adolescents born preterm, by grade of intraventricular 
haemorrhage, and term controls.
METHODS: We evaluated 338 preterm adolescents (birth weight 600-1250 g) for 
intelligence, executive function and memory tasks. Eleven had grade 3-4 
haemorrhage, 44 had grade 2, 31 had grade 1, and 251 had no haemorrhage. Group 
comparisons were made with 102 term age-matched controls, and regression models 
used to identify the risk that low-grade haemorrhage posed for cognitive, 
executive function and memory deficits.
RESULTS: Preterm adolescents with grade 2 haemorrhage had higher deficit rates 
of verbal intelligence, receptive vocabulary, phonemic fluency, cognitive 
flexibility and phonological fluency than preterm adolescents with grade 1 or no 
haemorrhage, compared with term controls. After excluding preterm adolescents 
with both grade 2 haemorrhage and cystic periventricular leukomalacia, those 
with isolated grade 2 haemorrhage remained at greater risk of cognitive and 
executive function deficits than term controls and of cognitive deficits than 
preterm adolescents with no haemorrhage.
CONCLUSION: Our findings suggest that preterm adolescents born in the early 
1990s with isolated grade 2 haemorrhage are at increased risk of learning 
challenges, including cognitive and executive function deficits.

©2014 Foundation Acta Paediatrica. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/apa.12728
PMID: 24976311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


939. Dyslexia. 2014 Aug;20(3):208-24. doi: 10.1002/dys.1480. Epub 2014 Jun 29.

The effects of automatic spelling correction software on understanding and 
comprehension in compensated dyslexia: improved recall following dictation.

Hiscox L(1), Leonavičiūtė E, Humby T.

Author information:
(1)School of Psychology, Cardiff University, Park Place, Cardiff, CF10 3AT, UK.

Dyslexia is associated with difficulties in language-specific skills such as 
spelling, writing and reading; the difficulty in acquiring literacy skills is 
not a result of low intelligence or the absence of learning opportunity, but 
these issues will persist throughout life and could affect long-term education. 
Writing is a complex process involving many different functions, integrated by 
the working memory system; people with dyslexia have a working memory deficit, 
which means that concentration on writing quality may be detrimental to 
understanding. We confirm impaired working memory in a sample of university 
students with (compensated) dyslexia, and using a within-subject design with 
three test conditions, we show that these participants demonstrated better 
understanding of a piece of text if they had used automatic spelling correction 
software during a dictation/transcription task. We hypothesize that the use of 
the autocorrecting software reduced demand on working memory, by allowing word 
writing to be more automatic, thus enabling better processing and understanding 
of the content of the transcriptions and improved recall. Long-term and regular 
use of autocorrecting assistive software should be beneficial for people with 
and without dyslexia and may improve confidence, written work, academic 
achievement and self-esteem, which are all affected in dyslexia.

Copyright © 2014 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/dys.1480
PMID: 24976387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


940. ScientificWorldJournal. 2014;2014:513240. doi: 10.1155/2014/513240. Epub 2014 
Apr 7.

Gender recognition from unconstrained and articulated human body.

Wu Q(1), Guo G(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Computer Science, Jiangnan University, Wuxi, Jiangsu 214122, 
China ; Lane Department of Computer Science and Electrical Engineering, West 
Virginia University, Morgantown, WV 26506, USA.
(2)Lane Department of Computer Science and Electrical Engineering, West Virginia 
University, Morgantown, WV 26506, USA.

Gender recognition has many useful applications, ranging from business 
intelligence to image search and social activity analysis. Traditional research 
on gender recognition focuses on face images in a constrained environment. This 
paper proposes a method for gender recognition in articulated human body images 
acquired from an unconstrained environment in the real world. A systematic study 
of some critical issues in body-based gender recognition, such as which body 
parts are informative, how many body parts are needed to combine together, and 
what representations are good for articulated body-based gender recognition, is 
also presented. This paper also pursues data fusion schemes and efficient 
feature dimensionality reduction based on the partial least squares estimation. 
Extensive experiments are performed on two unconstrained databases which have 
not been explored before for gender recognition.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/513240
PMCID: PMC3996991
PMID: 24977203 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


941. Psychol Bull. 2014 Sep;140(5):1332-60. doi: 10.1037/a0037173. Epub 2014 Jun 30.

The Flynn effect: a meta-analysis.

Trahan LH(1), Stuebing KK(2), Fletcher JM(2), Hiscock M(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Houston.
(2)Texas Institute for Measurement, Evaluation, and Statistics, University of 
Houston.
(3)Center for Neuro-Engineering and Cognitive Science, Department of Psychology, 
University of Houston.

The Flynn effect refers to the observed rise in IQ scores over time, which 
results in norms obsolescence. Although the Flynn effect is widely accepted, 
most efforts to estimate it have relied upon "scorecard" approaches that make 
estimates of its magnitude and error of measurement controversial and prevent 
determination of factors that moderate the Flynn effect across different IQ 
tests. We conducted a meta-analysis to determine the magnitude of the Flynn 
effect with a higher degree of precision, to determine the error of measurement, 
and to assess the impact of several moderator variables on the mean effect size. 
Across 285 studies (N = 14,031) since 1951 with administrations of 2 
intelligence tests with different normative bases, the meta-analytic mean was 
2.31, 95% CI [1.99, 2.64], standard score points per decade. The mean effect 
size for 53 comparisons (N = 3,951, excluding 3 atypical studies that inflate 
the estimates) involving modern (since 1972) Stanford-Binet and Wechsler IQ 
tests (2.93, 95% CI [2.3, 3.5], IQ points per decade) was comparable to previous 
estimates of about 3 points per decade but was not consistent with the 
hypothesis that the Flynn effect is diminishing. For modern tests, study sample 
(larger increases for validation research samples vs. test standardization 
samples) and order of administration explained unique variance in the Flynn 
effect, but age and ability level were not significant moderators. These results 
supported previous estimates of the Flynn effect and its robustness across 
different age groups, measures, samples, and levels of performance.

PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/a0037173
PMCID: PMC4152423
PMID: 24979188 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


942. Multivariate Behav Res. 2014 Jul-Aug;49(4):339-53. doi: 
10.1080/00273171.2014.908271.

Estimating Standard Errors in Exploratory Factor Analysis.

Zhang G(1).

Author information:
(1)a University of Notre Dame.

The article describes 6 issues influencing standard errors in exploratory factor 
analysis and reviews 7 methods of computing standard errors for rotated factor 
loadings and factor correlations. These 7 methods are the augmented information 
method, the nonparametric bootstrap method, the infinitesimal jackknife method, 
the method using the asymptotic distributions of unrotated factor loadings, the 
sandwich method, the parametric bootstrap method, and the jackknife method. 
Standard error estimates are illustrated using a personality study with 537 men 
and an intelligence study with 145 children.

DOI: 10.1080/00273171.2014.908271
PMID: 26765802


943. J Child Psychol Psychiatry. 2015 Jan;56(1):67-75. doi: 10.1111/jcpp.12281. Epub 
2014 Jul 1.

The contribution of early language development to children's emotional and 
behavioural functioning at 6 years: an analysis of data from the Children in 
Focus sample from the ALSPAC birth cohort.

Clegg J(1), Law J, Rush R, Peters TJ, Roulstone S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Communication Sciences, Sheffield, University of 
Sheffield, Sheffield, UK.

BACKGROUND: An association between children's early language development and 
their emotional and behavioural functioning is reported in the literature. The 
nature of the association remains unclear and it has not been established if 
such an association is found in a population-based cohort in addition to 
clinical populations.
METHODS: This study examines the reported association between language 
development and emotional and behavioural functioning in a population-based 
cohort. Data from 1,314 children in the Children in Focus (CiF) sample from the 
Avon Longitudinal Study of Parents and Children (ALSPAC) were analysed. 
Regression models identified the extent to which early language ability at 2 
years of age and later language ability at 4 years of age is associated with 
emotional and behavioural functioning at 6 years while accounting for biological 
and social risk and adjusting for age and performance intelligence (PIQ).
RESULTS: A series of univariable and multivariable analyses identified a strong 
influence of biological risk, social risk and early and later language ability 
to emotional and behavioural functioning. Interestingly, social risk dropped out 
of the multivariate analyses when age and PIQ were controlled for. Early 
expressive vocabulary at 2 years and receptive language at 4 years made a strong 
contribution to emotional and behavioural functioning at 6 years in addition to 
biological risk. The final model accounted for 11.6% of the variance in 
emotional and behavioural functioning at 6 years.
CONCLUSIONS: The study identified that early language ability at 2 years, 
specifically expressive vocabulary and later receptive language at 4 years both 
made a moderate, but important contribution to emotional and behavioural 
functioning at 6 years of age. Although children's language development is 
important in understanding children's emotional and behavioural functioning, the 
study shows that it is one of many developmental factors involved.

© 2014 The Authors. Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry. © 2014 
Association for Child and Adolescent Mental Health.

DOI: 10.1111/jcpp.12281
PMID: 24980269 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


944. J Intellect Disabil Res. 2015 May;59(5):468-73. doi: 10.1111/jir.12150. Epub 
2014 Jul 1.

Beyond the floor effect on the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children--4th Ed. 
(WISC-IV): calculating IQ and Indexes of subjects presenting a floored pattern 
of results.

Orsini A(1), Pezzuti L, Hulbert S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Psychology, Sapienza University of Rome, Rome, Italy.

BACKGROUND: It is now widely known that children with severe intellectual 
disability show a 'floor effect' on the Wechsler scales. This effect emerges 
because the practice of transforming raw scores into scaled scores eliminates 
any variability present in participants with low intellectual ability and 
because intelligence quotient (IQ) scores are limited insofar as they do not 
measure scores lower than 40.
METHOD: Following Hessl et al.'s results, the present authors propose a method 
for the computation of the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children--4th Ed. 
(WISC-IV)'s IQ and Indexes in intellectually disabled participants affected by a 
floored pattern of results. The Italian standardization sample (n = 2200) for 
the WISC-IV was used. The method presented in this study highlights the limits 
of the 'floor effect' of the WISC-IV in children with serious intellectual 
disability who present a profile with weighted scores of 1 in all the subtests 
despite some variability in the raw scores.
RESULTS: Such method eliminates the floor effect of the scale and therefore 
makes it possible to analyse the strengths and weaknesses of the WISC-IV's 
Indexes in these participants.
CONCLUSIONS: The Authors reflect on clinical utility of this method and on the 
meaning of raw score of 0 on subtest.

© 2014 MENCAP and International Association of the Scientific Study of 
Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jir.12150
PMID: 24981373 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


945. Clin Pediatr (Phila). 2014 Sep;53(10):943-8. doi: 10.1177/0009922814540984. Epub 
2014 Jun 30.

Parenting teens with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder: challenges and 
opportunities.

Modesto-Lowe V(1), Chaplin M(2), Godsay V(3), Soovajian V(4).

Author information:
(1)Connecticut Valley Hospital, Middletown, CT, USA vania.modesto-lowe@ct.gov.
(2)Community Mental Health Affiliates, New Britain, CT, USA.
(3)University of Connecticut, Storrs, CT, USA.
(4)Connecticut Valley Hospital, Middletown, CT, USA.

Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) presents in childhood with 
inattention, hyperactivity, and impulsivity and is associated with functional 
impairments. These children tend to display a variety of disruptive behaviors, 
which may worsen in adolescence. Teens with ADHD may show high levels of 
defiance, posing significant challenges for parents. Early efforts to understand 
parenting in the context of teen ADHD reveal high levels of parental stress and 
reactivity in response to the teen's ADHD symptoms. Subsequent research 
recognized that some of these parents have ADHD or other psychopathology that 
may contribute to maladaptive parenting. However, some parents adjust and 
demonstrate optimism and resilience in the face of their teens' ADHD. Recent 
research has identified parental factors (eg, emotional intelligence) and 
interventions (eg, mindfulness training) that may improve parenting/teen 
relationships and the developmental outcomes of teens. This article explores 
parenting teens with ADHD with a focus on these novel interventions.

© The Author(s) 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/0009922814540984
PMID: 24982442 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


946. Popul Health Metr. 2014 May 14;12:14. doi: 10.1186/1478-7954-12-14. eCollection 
2014.

A composite metric for assessing data on mortality and causes of death: the 
vital statistics performance index.

Phillips DE(1), Lozano R(2), Naghavi M(1), Atkinson C(1), Gonzalez-Medina D(1), 
Mikkelsen L(3), Murray CJ(1), Lopez AD(4).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, University of Washington, 2301 
5th Ave. Suite 600, Seattle, WA 98121, USA.
(2)Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, University of Washington, 2301 
5th Ave. Suite 600, Seattle, WA 98121, USA ; National Institute of Public 
Health, Universidad No. 655 Colonia Santa María Ahuacatitlán, Cerrada Los Pinos 
y Caminera, Cuernavaca, MOR 62100, México.
(3)LM Consulting, Independent Consultant, 4/78 Cairns St., Brisbane, QLD 4169, 
Australia.
(4)School of Population and Global Health, University of Melbourne, 207 Bouverie 
St., Level 5, Melbourne, VIC 3010, Australia.

BACKGROUND: Timely and reliable data on causes of death are fundamental for 
informed decision-making in the health sector as well as public health research. 
An in-depth understanding of the quality of data from vital statistics (VS) is 
therefore indispensable for health policymakers and researchers. We propose a 
summary index to objectively measure the performance of VS systems in generating 
reliable mortality data and apply it to the comprehensive cause of death 
database assembled for the Global Burden of Disease (GBD) 2013 Study.
METHODS: We created a Vital Statistics Performance Index, a composite of six 
dimensions of VS strength, each assessed by a separate empirical indicator. The 
six dimensions include: quality of cause of death reporting, quality of age and 
sex reporting, internal consistency, completeness of death reporting, level of 
cause-specific detail, and data availability/timeliness. A simulation procedure 
was developed to combine indicators into a single index. This index was computed 
for all country-years of VS in the GBD 2013 cause of death database, yielding 
annual estimates of overall VS system performance for 148 countries or 
territories.
RESULTS: The six dimensions impacted the accuracy of data to varying extents. VS 
performance declines more steeply with declining simulated completeness than for 
any other indicator. The amount of detail in the cause list reported has a 
concave relationship with overall data accuracy, but is an important driver of 
observed VS performance. Indicators of cause of death data quality and age/sex 
reporting have more linear relationships with simulated VS performance, but poor 
cause of death reporting influences observed VS performance more strongly. VS 
performance is steadily improving at an average rate of 2.10% per year among the 
148 countries that have available data, but only 19.0% of global deaths 
post-2000 occurred in countries with well-performing VS systems.
CONCLUSIONS: Objective and comparable information about the performance of VS 
systems and the utility of the data that they report will help to focus efforts 
to strengthen VS systems. Countries and the global health community alike need 
better intelligence about the accuracy of VS that are widely and often 
uncritically used in population health research and monitoring.

DOI: 10.1186/1478-7954-12-14
PMCID: PMC4060759
PMID: 24982595


947. ScientificWorldJournal. 2014;2014:462312. doi: 10.1155/2014/462312. Epub 2014 
May 26.

Master-slave control scheme in electric vehicle smart charging infrastructure.

Chung CY(1), Chynoweth J(1), Chu CC(1), Gadh R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, University of California 
at Los Angeles, 420 Westwood Plaza, Los Angeles, CA 90095-1594, USA.

WINSmartEV is a software based plug-in electric vehicle (PEV) monitoring, 
control, and management system. It not only incorporates intelligence at every 
level so that charge scheduling can avoid grid bottlenecks, but it also 
multiplies the number of PEVs that can be plugged into a single circuit. This 
paper proposes, designs, and executes many upgrades to WINSmartEV. These 
upgrades include new hardware that makes the level 1 and level 2 chargers 
faster, more robust, and more scalable. It includes algorithms that provide a 
more optimal charge scheduling for the level 2 (EVSE) and an enhanced vehicle 
monitoring/identification module (VMM) system that can automatically identify 
PEVs and authorize charging.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/462312
PMCID: PMC4058239
PMID: 24982956 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


948. PLoS One. 2014 Jul 1;9(7):e101247. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0101247. 
eCollection 2014.

Associations between the antioxidant network and emotional intelligence: a 
preliminary study.

Pesce M(1), Sergi MR(1), Rizzuto A(1), Tatangelo R(1), Tommasi M(1), Picconi 
L(1), Balsamo M(1), Gatta V(1), Stuppia L(1), Siegling AB(2), Gökçen E(2), 
Grilli A(1), Saggino A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychological, Humanistic and Territorial Sciences University 
G. d'Annunzio, Chieti, Italy.
(2)London Psychometric Laboratory, University College London, London, United 
Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: Emotional intelligence (EI) can be broadly defined as the ability to 
cope with environmental demands. In the scientific research, however, there is 
not a univocal precise definition of EI and recent articles have underlined the 
necessity to explore its biological basis to advance understanding of the 
construct. The aim of study was to investigate if the antioxidant network may be 
associated with typical-performance or trait EI.
METHODS: The study group consisted of 50 women (age, M = 25.10, SD = 3.87). 
Super Oxide Dismutase (SOD), Catalase (CAT), Glutathione Reductase (GR), and 
Glutathione Peroxidase (GPx) activities were evaluated on proteins extracted 
from Peripheral Blood Mononuclear Cells. Participants completed the Italian 
version of the EQ-i (Bar-On, 1997) as a measure of trait EI.
RESULTS: We observed positive and significant correlations between some 
biological variables and EQ-i scores, and a significant predictive effect of CAT 
activity when controlling for related biological variables, age, and smoking.
CONCLUSIONS: Our preliminary study suggests that the antioxidant network may 
constitute some of trait EI's biological basis. In particular, CAT and the 
SOD/CAT ratio could be two biological variables involved in some specific 
components of EI.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0101247
PMCID: PMC4077755
PMID: 24983620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


949. Clin Neuropsychol. 2014;28(6):1048-70. doi: 10.1080/13854046.2014.931465. Epub 
2014 Jul 2.

Comparison of credible patients of very low intelligence and non-credible 
patients on neurocognitive performance validity indicators.

Smith K(1), Boone K, Victor T, Miora D, Cottingham M, Ziegler E, Zeller M, 
Wright M.

Author information:
(1)a California School of Forensic Studies , Alliant International University , 
Alhambra , CA 91803 , USA.

The purpose of this archival study was to identify performance validity tests 
(PVTs) and standard IQ and neurocognitive test scores, which singly or in 
combination, differentiate credible patients of low IQ (FSIQ ≤ 75; n = 55) from 
non-credible patients. We compared the credible participants against a sample of 
74 non-credible patients who appeared to have been attempting to feign low 
intelligence specifically (FSIQ ≤ 75), as well as a larger non-credible sample 
(n = 383) unselected for IQ. The entire non-credible group scored significantly 
higher than the credible participants on measures of verbal crystallized 
intelligence/semantic memory and manipulation of overlearned information, while 
the credible group performed significantly better on many processing speed and 
memory tests. Additionally, credible women showed faster finger-tapping speeds 
than non-credible women. The credible group also scored significantly higher 
than the non-credible subgroup with low IQ scores on measures of attention, 
visual perceptual/spatial tasks, processing speed, verbal learning/list 
learning, and visual memory, and credible women continued to outperform 
non-credible women on finger tapping. When cut-offs were selected to maintain 
approximately 90% specificity in the credible group, sensitivity rates were 
highest for verbal and visual memory measures (i.e., TOMM trials 1 and 2; 
Warrington Words correct and time; Rey Word Recognition Test total; RAVLT Effort 
Equation, Trial 5, total across learning trials, short delay, recognition, and 
RAVLT/RO discriminant function; and Digit Symbol recognition), followed by 
select attentional PVT scores (i.e., b Test omissions and time to recite four 
digits forward). When failure rates were tabulated across seven most sensitive 
scores, a cut-off of ≥ 2 failures was associated with 85.4% specificity and 
85.7% sensitivity, while a cut-off of ≥ 3 failures resulted in 95.1% specificity 
and 66.0% sensitivity. Results are discussed in light of extant literature and 
directions for future research.

DOI: 10.1080/13854046.2014.931465
PMID: 24985490 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


950. Am J Med Genet B Neuropsychiatr Genet. 2014 Sep;165B(6):502-9. doi: 
10.1002/ajmg.b.32253. Epub 2014 Jul 2.

Glutamatergic copy number variants and their role in 
attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder.

Akutagava-Martins GC(1), Salatino-Oliveira A, Genro JP, Contini V, Polanczyk G, 
Zeni C, Chazan R, Kieling C, Anselmi L, Menezes AM, Grevet EH, Bau CH, Rohde LA, 
Hutz MH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil.

Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) is a common neurodevelopmental 
disorder with a strong genetic component. The glutamate metabotropic receptor 
genes (GRMs) have been considered potential candidates for ADHD susceptibility. 
The aim of the present study was to investigate if copy number variants (CNVs) 
in GRM1, GRM5, and GRM8 genes are overrepresented in ADHD subjects. A total of 
1038 individuals with ADHD and 1057 subjects without this disorder were 
investigated. No significant difference in the total number of CNVs was found 
comparing the entire ADHD sample and the population sample without ADHD (P = 
0.326, OR = 1.112, 95% CI = 0.762-1.624). The presence of CNVs was associated 
with lower intelligence quotient (IQ) scores in ADHD samples (P = 0.026, OR = 
1.824, 95% CI = 1.066-3.121) but not in the sample of individuals without ADHD. 
CNVs in GRM5 were associated with presence of anxiety disorders in ADHD cases (P 
= 0.002, OR = 3.915, 95% CI = 1.631-9.402), but not in individuals without ADHD. 
Taken together, our results suggest a role for glutamate in ADHD as CNVs in the 
glutamatergic genes investigated herein were associated with cognitive and 
clinical characteristics of ADHD individuals.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.b.32253
PMID: 24985920 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


951. J Stud Alcohol Drugs. 2014 Jul;75(4):615-22. doi: 10.15288/jsad.2014.75.615.

Youth alcohol brand consumption and exposure to brand advertising in magazines.

Ross CS(1), Ostroff J(1), Siegel MB(2), DeJong W(2), Naimi TS(3), Jernigan 
DH(4).

Author information:
(1)Virtual Media Resources, Inc., Natick, Massachusetts.
(2)Community Health Sciences Department, Boston University School of Public 
Health, Boston, Massachusetts.
(3)Community Health Sciences Department, Boston University School of Public 
Health, Boston, Massachusetts, Section of General Internal Medicine, Boston 
Medical Center, Boston, Massachusetts.
(4)Center on Alcohol Marketing and Youth, Health, Behavior & Society Division, 
Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland.

OBJECTIVE: Recently published research has identified the alcohol brands most 
frequently consumed by underage youth. The present study examines alcohol 
magazine advertising in 2011 to report age- and sex-specific exposure to 
advertisements for these brands in contrast with other magazine advertising 
brands less popular with youth.
METHOD: We licensed magazine advertising occurrence data from Nielsen and 
magazine audience data from the research company GfK MRI (Growth from Knowledge, 
Mediamark Research & Intelligence) for national full-run editions for 2011. We 
contrasted per capita advertising exposure, considering different age- and 
sex-specific groups, for popular youth brands versus all other magazine brands. 
For each brand, we reported the age group receiving the highest level of per 
capita advertising exposure, as well as other age groups within 10% of that peak 
level.
RESULTS: Underage males ages 18-20 were the most heavily exposed age group for 
11 of the top 25 brands they consumed and were within 10% of the most heavily 
exposed group for another 6 brands. Underage females ages 18-20 were most 
heavily exposed for 16 of the top 25 brands they consumed and were within 10% of 
the most heavily exposed group for another 2 brands. In contrast, those ages 
18-20 were the most heavily exposed group for fewer than 10% of the remaining 
308 magazine advertising brands for either sex.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest a relationship between advertising exposure 
and youth alcohol brand consumption. Current alcohol industry self-regulatory 
codes may not be sufficiently protective of youth.

DOI: 10.15288/jsad.2014.75.615
PMCID: PMC4108602
PMID: 24988260 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


952. Am J Med Genet A. 2014 Sep;164A(9):2256-62. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.a.36649. Epub 2014 
Jul 2.

Are 22q11.2 distal deletions associated with math difficulties?

Carvalho MR(1), Vianna G, Oliveira Lde F, Costa AJ, Pinheiro-Chagas P, 
Sturzenecker R, Zen PR, Rosa RF, de Aguiar MJ, Haase VG.

Author information:
(1)Pós-Graduação em Genética, Departamento de Biologia Geral, Instituto de 
Ciências Biológicas, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, Minas 
Gerais, Brazil; Departamento de Biologia Geral, Instituto de Ciências Biológias, 
Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais, Brazil.

Approximately 6% of school-aged children have math difficulties (MD). A 
neurogenetic etiology has been suggested due to the presence of MD in some 
genetic syndromes such as 22q11.2DS. However, the contribution of 22q11.2DS to 
the MD phenotype has not yet been investigated. This is the first 
population-based study measuring the frequency of 22q11.2DS among school 
children with MD. Children (1,564) were identified in the schools through a 
screening test for language and math. Of these children, 152 (82 with MD and 70 
controls) were selected for intelligence, general neuropsychological, and math 
cognitive assessments and for 22q11.2 microdeletion screening using MLPA. One 
child in the MD group had a 22q11.2 deletion spanning the LCR22-4 to LCR22-5 
interval. This child was an 11-year-old girl with subtle anomalies, normal 
intelligence, MD attributable to number sense deficit, and difficulties in 
social interactions. Only 19 patients have been reported with this deletion. 
Upon reviewing these reports, we were able to characterize a new syndrome, 
22q11.2 DS (LCR22-4 to LCR22-5), characterized by prematurity; pre- and 
postnatal growth restriction; apparent hypotelorism, short/upslanting palpebral 
fissures; hypoplastic nasal alae; pointed chin and nose; posteriorly rotated 
ears; congenital heart defects; skeletal abnormalities; developmental delay, 
particularly compromising the speech; learning disability (including MD, in one 
child); intellectual disability; and behavioral problems. These results suggest 
that 22q11.2 DS (LCR22-4 to LCR22-5) may be one of the genetic causes of MD.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.a.36649
PMID: 24989330 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


953. Int J Psychol. 2014 Aug;49(4):249-56. doi: 10.1002/ijop.12014. Epub 2013 Nov 20.

What my parents make me believe in learning: the role of filial piety in Hong 
Kong students' motivation and academic achievement.

Chen WW(1), Wong YL.

Author information:
(1)University of Macau, Macau, China.

Chinese students are well-known for their academic excellence. However, studies 
that explore the underlying mechanism of how cultural factors relate to the 
motivational process and academic achievement of Chinese students have been 
limited. This study aimed to examine the role of filial piety in shaping Chinese 
students' theories of intelligence so as to obtain a clearer understanding of 
the process by which parent-child connectedness is linked to Chinese students' 
academic achievement. A sample of 312 university students in Hong Kong were 
assessed concerning their filial piety beliefs, theories of intelligence and 
academic achievement. Data were analysed using structural equation modelling. 
The results indicated that different filial piety beliefs relate to students' 
academic achievement by shaping different theories of intelligence. Reciprocal 
filial piety beliefs were found to facilitate an incremental view of 
intelligence, which in turn contributes to students' academic achievement. 
Authoritarian filial piety beliefs were shown to be associated with an entity 
view of intelligence, which consequently deteriorates students' academic 
achievement. Cultural views of motivational processes can shed light on how 
motivational beliefs are developed as a product of cultural or socialization 
processes, which, in turn, contribute to students' academic success.

© 2013 International Union of Psychological Science.

DOI: 10.1002/ijop.12014
PMID: 24990635 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


954. Neurology. 2014 Aug 5;83(6):529-36. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000000669. Epub 2014 
Jul 2.

The burden of Duchenne muscular dystrophy: an international, cross-sectional 
study.

Landfeldt E(1), Lindgren P(1), Bell CF(1), Schmitt C(1), Guglieri M(1), Straub 
V(1), Lochmüller H(1), Bushby K(2).

Author information:
(1)From OptumInsight (E.L.), Stockholm; Institute of Environmental Medicine 
(E.L.) and Medical Management Centre, Department of Learning, Informatics, 
Management and Ethics (P.L.), Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden; 
GlaxoSmithKline (C.F.B.), Research Triangle Park, NC; GlaxoSmithKline (C.S.), 
Brentford, Middlesex, UK; and Institute of Genetic Medicine (M.G., V.S., H.L., 
K.B.), Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.
(2)From OptumInsight (E.L.), Stockholm; Institute of Environmental Medicine 
(E.L.) and Medical Management Centre, Department of Learning, Informatics, 
Management and Ethics (P.L.), Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden; 
GlaxoSmithKline (C.F.B.), Research Triangle Park, NC; GlaxoSmithKline (C.S.), 
Brentford, Middlesex, UK; and Institute of Genetic Medicine (M.G., V.S., H.L., 
K.B.), Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK. kate.bushby@ncl.ac.uk.

OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to estimate the total cost of illness 
and economic burden of Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD).
METHODS: Patients with DMD from Germany, Italy, United Kingdom, and United 
States were identified through Translational Research in Europe-Assessment & 
Treatment of Neuromuscular Diseases registries and invited to complete a 
questionnaire online together with a caregiver. Data on health care use, quality 
of life, work status, informal care, and household expenses were collected to 
estimate costs of DMD from the perspective of society and caregiver households.
RESULTS: A total of 770 patients (173 German, 122 Italian, 191 from the United 
Kingdom, and 284 from the United States) completed the questionnaire. Mean 
per-patient annual direct cost of illness was estimated at between $23,920 and 
$54,270 (2012 international dollars), 7 to 16 times higher than the mean 
per-capita health expenditure in these countries. Indirect and informal care 
costs were substantial, each constituting between 18% and 43% of total costs. 
The total societal burden was estimated at between $80,120 and $120,910 per 
patient and annum, and increased markedly with disease progression. The 
corresponding household burden was estimated at between $58,440 and $71,900.
CONCLUSIONS: We show that DMD is associated with a substantial economic burden. 
Our results underscore the many different costs accompanying a rare condition 
such as DMD and the considerable economic burden carried by affected families. 
Our description of the previously unknown economic context of a rare disease 
serves as important intelligence input to health policy evaluations of 
intervention programs and novel therapies, financial support schemes for 
patients and their families, and the design of future cost studies.

© 2014 American Academy of Neurology.

DOI: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000000669
PMCID: PMC4141999
PMID: 24991029 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


955. ScientificWorldJournal. 2014;2014:721521. doi: 10.1155/2014/721521. Epub 2014 
May 29.

Firefly algorithm for cardinality constrained mean-variance portfolio 
optimization problem with entropy diversity constraint.

Bacanin N(1), Tuba M(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Computer Science, Megatrend University Belgrade, 11070 Belgrade, 
Serbia.

Portfolio optimization (selection) problem is an important and hard optimization 
problem that, with the addition of necessary realistic constraints, becomes 
computationally intractable. Nature-inspired metaheuristics are appropriate for 
solving such problems; however, literature review shows that there are very few 
applications of nature-inspired metaheuristics to portfolio optimization 
problem. This is especially true for swarm intelligence algorithms which 
represent the newer branch of nature-inspired algorithms. No application of any 
swarm intelligence metaheuristics to cardinality constrained mean-variance 
(CCMV) portfolio problem with entropy constraint was found in the literature. 
This paper introduces modified firefly algorithm (FA) for the CCMV portfolio 
model with entropy constraint. Firefly algorithm is one of the latest, very 
successful swarm intelligence algorithm; however, it exhibits some deficiencies 
when applied to constrained problems. To overcome lack of exploration power 
during early iterations, we modified the algorithm and tested it on standard 
portfolio benchmark data sets used in the literature. Our proposed modified 
firefly algorithm proved to be better than other state-of-the-art algorithms, 
while introduction of entropy diversity constraint further improved results.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/721521
PMCID: PMC4060745
PMID: 24991645 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


956. AIDS. 2014 Jul;28 Suppl 3(0 3):S347-57. doi: 10.1097/QAD.0000000000000335.

A randomized clinical trial of an intervention to promote resilience in young 
children of HIV-positive mothers in South Africa.

Eloff I(1), Finestone M, Makin JD, Boeving-Allen A, Visser M, Ebersöhn L, 
Ferreira R, Sikkema KJ, Briggs-Gowan MJ, Forsyth BW.

Author information:
(1)aFaculty of Education bDepartment of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University 
of Pretoria, Pretoria, South Africa cDepartment of Pediatrics, Wake Forest 
University, Winston-Salem, North Carolina, USA dDepartment of Psychology, 
University of Pretoria, Pretoria, South Africa eDepartment of Psychology and 
Neuroscience, and Global Health, Duke University, Durham, North Carolina 
fDepartment of Psychiatry, University of Connecticut Health Center, Farmington 
gDepartment of Pediatrics, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, 
Connecticut, USA.

OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study is to assess the efficacy of an 
intervention designed to promote resilience in young children living with their 
HIV-positive mothers.
DESIGN/METHODS: HIV-positive women attending clinics in Tshwane, South Africa, 
and their children, aged 6-10 years, were randomized to the intervention (I) or 
standard care (S). The intervention consisted of 24 weekly group sessions led by 
community care workers. Mothers and children were in separate groups for 14 
sessions, followed by 10 interactive sessions. The primary focus was on 
parent-child communication and parenting. Assessments were completed by mothers 
and children at baseline and 6, 12 and 18 months. Repeated mixed linear analyses 
were used to assess change over time.
RESULTS: Of 390 mother-child pairs, 84.6% (I: 161 and S: 169) completed at least 
two interviews and were included in the analyses. Children's mean age was 8.4 
years and 42% of mothers had been ill in the prior 3 months. Attendance in 
groups was variable: only 45.7% attended more than 16 sessions. Intervention 
mothers reported significant improvements in children's externalizing behaviours 
(ß = -2.8, P = 0.002), communication (ß = 4.3, P = 0.025) and daily living 
skills (ß = 5.9, P = 0.024), although improvement in internalizing behaviours 
and socialization was not significant (P = 0.061 and 0.052, respectively). 
Intervention children reported a temporary increase in anxiety but did not 
report differences in depression or emotional intelligence.
CONCLUSION: This is the first study demonstrating benefits of an intervention 
designed to promote resilience among young children of HIV-positive mothers. The 
intervention was specifically designed for an African context and has the 
potential to benefit large numbers of children, if it can be widely implemented.

DOI: 10.1097/QAD.0000000000000335
PMCID: PMC4160802
PMID: 24991908 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


957. J Vis. 2014 Jul 3;14(8):4. doi: 10.1167/14.8.4.

Is there a common factor for vision?

Cappe C(1), Clarke A(2), Mohr C(3), Herzog MH(2).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Psychophysics, Brain Mind Institute, École Polytechnique 
Fédérale de Lausanne (EPFL), Lausanne, SwitzerlandCentre de Recherche Cerveau et 
Cognition, Université de Toulouse, Toulouse, France.
(2)Laboratory of Psychophysics, Brain Mind Institute, École Polytechnique 
Fédérale de Lausanne (EPFL), Lausanne, Switzerland.
(3)Faculté des Sciences Sociales et Politiques, Institut de Psychologie, 
Bâtiment Anthropole, Lausanne, Switzerland.

In cognition, common factors play a crucial role. For example, different types 
of intelligence are highly correlated, pointing to a common factor, which is 
often called g. One might expect that a similar common factor would also exist 
for vision. Surprisingly, no one in the field has addressed this issue. Here, we 
provide the first evidence that there is no common factor for vision. We tested 
40 healthy students’ performance in six basic visual paradigms: visual acuity, 
vernier discrimination,two visual backward masking paradigms, Gabor detection, 
and bisection discrimination. One might expect that performance levels on these 
tasks would be highly correlated because some individuals generally have better 
vision than others due to superior optics,better retinal or cortical processing, 
or enriched visual experience. However, only four out of 15 correlations were 
significant, two of which were nontrivial. These results cannot be explained by 
high intraobserver variability or ceiling effects because test–retest 
reliability was high and the variance in our student population is commensurate 
with that from other studies with well sighted populations. Using a variety of 
tests (e.g., principal components analysis, Bayes theorem, test–retest 
reliability), we show the robustness of our null results. We suggest that 
neuroplasticity operates during everyday experience to generate marked 
individual differences. Our results apply only to the normally sighted 
population (i.e., restricted range sampling). For the entire population, 
including those with degenerate vision, we expect different results.

© 2014 ARVO.

DOI: 10.1167/14.8.4
PMID: 24993018 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


958. Hum Reprod. 2014 Sep;29(9):1968-77. doi: 10.1093/humrep/deu165. Epub 2014 Jul 3.

Cognitive and psychomotor development of 5- to 6-year-old singletons born after 
PGD: a prospective case-controlled matched study.

Winter C(1), Van Acker F(2), Bonduelle M(3), Desmyttere S(3), De Schrijver F(3), 
Nekkebroeck J(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Developmental and Lifespan Psychology, Vrije Universiteit 
Brussel (VUB), Pleinlaan 2, Brussels 1050, Belgium Centre for Medical Genetics, 
UZ Brussel, Vrije Universiteit Brussel (VUB), Laarbeeklaan 101, 1090 Brussels, 
Belgium christiane.winter@uzbrussel.be.
(2)Open Universiteit, Heerlen, The Netherlands.
(3)Centre for Medical Genetics, UZ Brussel, Vrije Universiteit Brussel (VUB), 
Laarbeeklaan 101, 1090 Brussels, Belgium.
(4)Department of Developmental and Lifespan Psychology, Vrije Universiteit 
Brussel (VUB), Pleinlaan 2, Brussels 1050, Belgium Centre for Medical Genetics, 
UZ Brussel, Vrije Universiteit Brussel (VUB), Laarbeeklaan 101, 1090 Brussels, 
Belgium.

STUDY QUESTION: Do preschool preimplantation genetic diagnosis (PGD) children 
differ in their cognitive and psychomotor development from children born after 
ICSI and spontaneous conception (SC)?
SUMMARY ANSWER: The cognitive development of PGD pre-schoolers was comparable to 
children born after ICSI and SC but motor development differed between ICSI and 
SC groups.
STUDY DESIGN, SIZE DURATION: The cognitive abilities and motor skills of 5- to 
6-year-old singletons born after PGD (n = 47) were assessed in comparison with 
49 ICSI and 48 SC children in a prospective, case-controlled, matched follow-up 
study between April 2011 and May 2013.
PARTICIPANTS/MATERIALS, SETTING, METHODS: PGD singletons, ICSI and SC children 
of preschool age were examined with the Wechsler Preschool and Primary Scale of 
Intelligence (WPSSI-III-NL) and the Movement ABC (M ABC). The WPSSI-III-NL 
revealed scores for Full IQ, Verbal IQ and Performance IQ. The M ABC yields a 
total score and comprising scores for measurements of balance, dexterity and 
ball skills. Since embryo biopsy is the only technical difference between the 
PGD and ICSI procedures, ICSI children were included as controls. These children 
were part of a Dutch-speaking cohort of children conceived after assisted 
reproduction technology (ART) at the Universitair Ziekenhuis Brussel (UZ 
Brussel) who received longitudinal follow-up. The SC children acted as a second 
control group similar to the fertile PGD sample and in contrast to the ICSI 
group. The SC group was recruited through announcements in a variety of media. 
The children were matched for age, gender, birth order and educational level of 
the mother. The assessments carried out for the ART groups were blinded whenever 
possible. The data were analysed using analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) and 
partial eta squared (η(2)), which was used as a measurement of effect size.
MAIN RESULTS AND THE ROLE OF CHANCE: The overall cognitive development of PGD 
singletons did not differ from controls [P = 0.647, η(2) = 0.006; 95% confidence 
interval (CI) (0, 0.043)]. The partial IQ scores for Verbal and Performance 
intelligence revealed similar results. Analysis of motor development based on 
the total score as well as subscales did indicate a significant difference 
between the three conception groups [P = 0.033, η(2) = 0.050, 95% CI (0, 
0.124)]. Post hoc analysis indicated that the significant difference was 
situated between performances of ICSI and SC children. Balance capacities [P = 
0.004, η(2) = 0.079, 95% CI (0.025, 0.163)] and its post hoc analysis yielded 
equivalent results. Motor capacities of PGD singletons, however, did not differ 
from any of the two other conception groups.
LIMITATIONS, REASONS FOR CAUTION: Given that we only assessed Caucasian 
singletons born after PGD, caution is required when drawing more general 
inferences from our results. The small sample size may be a limitation. A priori 
power analysis, however, revealed that at least 52 children per group were 
needed to detect a medium effect and 80% power using ANCOVA. Originally our 
sample met this threshold but we had to exclude six cases in order to remove 
outliers and due to missing data.
WIDER IMPLICATIONS OF THE FINDINGS: Long-term follow-up of children born after 
embryo biopsy, in this case for PGD, is needed to confirm that the development 
of these children remains comparable to ICSI and SC children. Our findings do 
support the safety of the PGD technique and will reassure patients with 
hereditary genetic diseases regarding the health of their future offspring 
conceived with PGD.
STUDY FUNDING/COMPETING INTERESTS: Funding for this study was obtained from the 
OZR (Research group of the Vrije Universiteit Brussel), the FWO (Fonds 
Wetenschappelijk Onderzoek) and the Wetenschappelijk Fonds Willy Gepts. The UZ 
Brussel and the Centre of Medical Genetics received funding from pharmaceutical 
firms for data collection. UZ Brussel and the Centre for Medical Genetics have 
received many educational grants for organizing the data collection, from IBSA, 
Ferring, Organon, Shering-Plough, Merck and Merck Belgium. M.B. has received 
consultancy and speaker's fees from Organon, Serono Symposia and Merck.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
European Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology. All rights reserved. For 
Permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/humrep/deu165
PMID: 24993932 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


959. J Child Fam Stud. 2014 Jul 1;23(5):785-799. doi: 10.1007/s10826-013-9731-4.

Neighborhood Social Context and Individual Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbon 
Exposures Associated with Child Cognitive Test Scores.

Lovasi GS(1), Eldred-Skemp N(1), Quinn JW(1), Chang HW(2), Rauh VA(3), Rundle 
A(1), Orjuela MA(3), Perera FP(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Columbia University Mailman School of Public 
Health, 722 W 168th St, Room 804, New York, NY 10032, USA.
(2)Department of Biostatistics, Columbia University Mailman School of Public 
Health, New York, NY, USA.
(3)Department of Environmental Health Sciences, Columbia University Mailman 
School of Public Health, New York, NY, USA.

Childhood cognitive and test-taking abilities have long-term implications for 
educational achievement and health, and may be influenced by household 
environmental exposures and neighborhood contexts. This study evaluates whether 
age 5 scores on the Wechsler Preschool and Primary Scale of Intelligence-Revised 
(WPPSI-R, administered in English) are associated with polycyclic aromatic 
hydrocarbon (PAH) exposure and neighborhood context variables including poverty, 
low educational attainment, low English language proficiency, and inadequate 
plumbing. The Columbia Center for Children's Environmental Health enrolled 
African-American and Dominican-American New York City women during pregnancy, 
and conducted follow-up for subsequent childhood health outcomes including 
cognitive test scores. Individual outcomes were linked to data characterizing 
1-km network buffers around prenatal addresses, home observations, interviews, 
and prenatal PAH exposure data from personal air monitors. Prenatal PAH exposure 
above the median predicted 3.5 point lower total WPPSI-R scores and 3.9 point 
lower verbal scores; the association was similar in magnitude across models with 
adjustments for neighborhood characteristics. Neighborhood-level low English 
proficiency was independently associated with 2.3 point lower mean total WPPSI-R 
score, 1.2 point lower verbal score, and 2.7 point lower performance score per 
standard deviation. Low neighborhood-level educational attainment was also 
associated with 2.0 point lower performance scores. In models examining effect 
modification, neighborhood associations were similar or diminished among the 
high PAH exposure group, as compared with the low PAH exposure group. Early life 
exposure to personal PAH exposure or selected neighborhood-level social contexts 
may predict lower cognitive test scores. However, these results may reflect 
limited geographic exposure variation and limited generalizability.

DOI: 10.1007/s10826-013-9731-4
PMCID: PMC4075963
PMID: 24994947


960. World Allergy Organ J. 2014 Jun 25;7(1):15. doi: 10.1186/1939-4551-7-15. 
eCollection 2014.

Allergenius, an expert system for the interpretation of allergen microarray 
results.

Melioli G(1), Spenser C(2), Reggiardo G(3), Passalacqua G(1), Compalati E(1), 
Rogkakou A(1), Riccio AM(1), Di Leo E(4), Nettis E(4), Canonica GW(1).

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Medicina Interna, Università di Genova, Largo Rosanna Benzi 
10, 16132 Genova, Italy.
(2)Logic Programming Associates, Studio 30, Royal Victoria Patriotic Building, 
Trinity Road, London SW18 3SX, UK.
(3)Unità di Biometria, Mediservice S.r.l., Via Matteotti, 43/B - 20864 Agrate 
Brianza (MI), Italy.
(4)U.O. Allergologia e Immunologia Clinica, Policlinico, Università di Bari, 
Piazza Giulio Cesare, 11 - 70124 Bari, Italy.

BACKGROUND: An in vitro procedure based on a microarray containing many 
different allergen components has recently been introduced for use in allergy 
diagnosis. Recombinant and highly purified allergens belonging to different 
allergenic sources (inhalants, food, latex and hymenoptera) are present in the 
array. These components can either be genuine or cross-reactive, resistant or 
susceptible to heat and low pH, and innocuous or potentially dangerous. A large 
number of complex and heterogeneous relationships among these components has 
emerged, such that sometimes these interactions cannot be effectively managed by 
the allergist. In the 1960s, specialized languages and environments were 
developed to support the replacement of human experts with dedicated 
decision-making information systems. Currently, expert systems (ES) are advanced 
informatics tools that are widely used in medicine, engineering, finance and 
trading.
METHODS: We developed an ES, named Allergenius ®, to support the interpretation 
of allergy tests based on microarray technology (ImmunoCAP ISAC ®). The ES was 
implemented using Flex, a LPA Win-Prolog shell. Rules representing the knowledge 
base (KB) were derived from the literature and specialized databases. The input 
data included the patient's ID and disease(s), the results of either a skin 
prick test or specific IgE assays and ISAC results. The output was a medical 
report.
RESULTS: The ES was first validated using artificial and real life cases and 
passed all in silico validations. Then, the opinions of allergists with 
experience in molecular diagnostics were compared with the ES reports. The 
Allergenius reports included all of the allergists' opinions and considerations, 
as well as any additional information.
CONCLUSIONS: Allergenius is a trustable ES dedicated to molecular tests for 
allergy. In the present version, it provides a powerful method to understand 
ISAC results and to obtain a comprehensive interpretation of the patient's IgE 
profiling.

DOI: 10.1186/1939-4551-7-15
PMCID: PMC4070085
PMID: 24995073


961. ScientificWorldJournal. 2014;2014:209810. doi: 10.1155/2014/209810. Epub 2014 
Jun 5.

Application of reinforcement learning in cognitive radio networks: models and 
algorithms.

Yau KL(1), Poh GS(2), Chien SF(3), Al-Rawi HA(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Science and Technology, Sunway University, No. 5 Jalan Universiti, 
Bandar Sunway, 46150 Petaling Jaya, Selangor, Malaysia.
(2)University Malaysia of Computer Science & Engineering, Jalan Alamanda 2, 
Presint 16, 62150 Putrajaya, Wilayah Persekutuan Putrajaya, Malaysia.
(3)Department of Mathematical Modeling Laboratory, Mimos Berhad, Technology Park 
Malaysia, 57000 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.

Cognitive radio (CR) enables unlicensed users to exploit the underutilized 
spectrum in licensed spectrum whilst minimizing interference to licensed users. 
Reinforcement learning (RL), which is an artificial intelligence approach, has 
been applied to enable each unlicensed user to observe and carry out optimal 
actions for performance enhancement in a wide range of schemes in CR, such as 
dynamic channel selection and channel sensing. This paper presents new 
discussions of RL in the context of CR networks. It provides an extensive review 
on how most schemes have been approached using the traditional and enhanced RL 
algorithms through state, action, and reward representations. Examples of the 
enhancements on RL, which do not appear in the traditional RL approach, are 
rules and cooperative learning. This paper also reviews performance enhancements 
brought about by the RL algorithms and open issues. This paper aims to establish 
a foundation in order to spark new research interests in this area. Our 
discussion has been presented in a tutorial manner so that it is comprehensive 
to readers outside the specialty of RL and CR.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/209810
PMCID: PMC4068054
PMID: 24995352 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


962. Hum Nat. 2014 Sep;25(3):299-327. doi: 10.1007/s12110-014-9203-6.

Early humans' egalitarian politics: runaway synergistic competition under an 
adapted veil of ignorance.

Harvey M(1).

Author information:
(1), 18 St-Cyrille, Montréal, QC, Canada, H2V 1H8, hrvmarc@gmail.com.

This paper proposes a model of human uniqueness based on an unusual distinction 
between two contrasted kinds of political competition and political status: (1) 
antagonistic competition, in quest of dominance (antagonistic status), a 
zero-sum, self-limiting game whose stake--who takes what, when, how--summarizes 
a classical definition of politics (Lasswell 1936), and (2) synergistic 
competition, in quest of merit (synergistic status), a positive-sum, 
self-reinforcing game whose stake becomes "who brings what to a team's common 
good." In this view, Rawls's (1971) famous virtual "veil of ignorance" mainly 
conceals politics' antagonistic stakes so as to devise the principles of a just, 
egalitarian society, yet without providing any means to enforce these ideals 
(Sen 2009). Instead, this paper proposes that human uniqueness flourished under 
a real "adapted veil of ignorance" concealing the steady inflation of 
synergistic politics which resulted from early humans' sturdy egalitarianism. 
This proposition divides into four parts: (1) early humans first stumbled on a 
purely cultural means to enforce a unique kind of within-team antagonistic 
equality--dyadic balanced deterrence thanks to handheld weapons (Chapais 2008); 
(2) this cultural innovation is thus closely tied to humans' darkest side, but 
it also launched the cumulative evolution of humans' brightest 
qualities--egalitarian team synergy and solidarity, together with the associated 
synergistic intelligence, culture, and communications; (3) runaway synergistic 
competition for differential merit among antagonistically equal obligate 
teammates is the single politically selective mechanism behind the cumulative 
evolution of all these brighter qualities, but numerous factors to be clarified 
here conceal this mighty evolutionary driver; (4) this veil of ignorance 
persists today, which explains why humans' unique prosocial capacities are still 
not clearly understood by science. The purpose of this paper is to start lifting 
this now-ill-adapted veil of ignorance, thus uncovering the tight functional 
relations between egalitarian team solidarity and the evolution of human 
uniqueness.

DOI: 10.1007/s12110-014-9203-6
PMCID: PMC4143610
PMID: 24996372 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


963. Neural Netw. 2014 Oct;58:68-81. doi: 10.1016/j.neunet.2014.05.026. Epub 2014 Jun 
19.

A classification of user-generated content into consumer decision journey 
stages.

Vázquez S(1), Muñoz-García Ó(2), Campanella I(3), Poch M(4), Fisas B(5), Bel 
N(6), Andreu G(7).

Author information:
(1)Universitat Pompeu Fabra,(1) Roc Boronat 138, 08018 Barcelona, Spain. 
Electronic address: silvia.vazquez@upf.edu.
(2)Havas Media Group, Pedro Texeira 8, 10o, 28020, Madrid, Spain. Electronic 
address: oscar.munoz@havasmg.com.
(3)Havas Media Group,(2) Can Ràbia 3-5, 08017, Barcelona, Spain. Electronic 
address: ines.campanella@havasmg.com.
(4)Universitat Pompeu Fabra,(1) Roc Boronat 138, 08018 Barcelona, Spain. 
Electronic address: marc.poch@upf.edu.
(5)Universitat Pompeu Fabra,(1) Roc Boronat 138, 08018 Barcelona, Spain. 
Electronic address: beatriz.fisas@upf.edu.
(6)Universitat Pompeu Fabra,(1) Roc Boronat 138, 08018 Barcelona, Spain. 
Electronic address: nuria.bel@upf.edu.
(7)Havas Media Group,(2) Can Ràbia 3-5, 08017, Barcelona, Spain. Electronic 
address: gloria.andreu@havasmg.com.

In the last decades, the availability of digital user-generated documents from 
social media has dramatically increased. This massive growth of user-generated 
content has also affected traditional shopping behaviour. Customers have 
embraced new communication channels such as microblogs and social networks that 
enable them not only just to talk with friends and acquaintances about their 
shopping experience, but also to search for opinions expressed by complete 
strangers as part of their decision making processes. Uncovering how customers 
feel about specific products or brands and detecting purchase habits and 
preferences has traditionally been a costly and highly time-consuming task which 
involved the use of methods such as focus groups and surveys. However, the new 
scenario calls for a deep assessment of current market research techniques in 
order to better interpret and profit from this ever-growing stream of 
attitudinal data. With this purpose, we present a novel analysis and 
classification of user-generated content in terms of it belonging to one of the 
four stages of the Consumer Decision Journey Court et al. (2009) (i.e. the 
purchase process from the moment when a customer is aware of the existence of 
the product to the moment when he or she buys, experiences and talks about it). 
Using a corpus of short texts written in English and Spanish and extracted from 
different social media, we identify a set of linguistic patterns for each 
purchase stage that will be then used in a rule-based classifier. Additionally, 
we use machine learning algorithms to automatically identify business indicators 
such as the Marketing Mix elements McCarthy and Brogowicz (1981). The 
classification of the purchase stages achieves an average precision of 74%. The 
proposed classification of texts depending on the Marketing Mix elements 
expressed achieved an average precision of 75% for all the elements analysed.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neunet.2014.05.026
PMID: 24996448 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


964. Schizophr Res. 2014 Aug;157(1-3):26-32. doi: 10.1016/j.schres.2014.06.014. Epub 
2014 Jul 1.

Evidence for an agitated-aggressive syndrome predating the onset of psychosis.

Huber CG(1), Smieskova R(2), Schroeder K(3), Studerus E(2), Harrisberger F(2), 
Aston J(2), Walter A(2), Walter M(2), Riecher-Rössler A(2), Borgwardt S(2).

Author information:
(1)Universitäre Psychiatrische Kliniken Basel, Wilhelm Klein-Str. 27, CH-4012 
Basel, Switzerland. Electronic address: christian.huber@upkbs.ch.
(2)Universitäre Psychiatrische Kliniken Basel, Wilhelm Klein-Str. 27, CH-4012 
Basel, Switzerland.
(3)Universitätsklinikum Hamburg-Eppendorf, Martinistr. 52, D-20246 Hamburg, 
Germany.

BACKGROUND: Aggression and suicidality prior to the initiation of treatment are 
frequent phenomena in psychosis patients. Increased scores in the Brief 
Psychiatric Rating Scale Excited Component (BPRS-EC) have been shown to predict 
involuntary treatment, aggression, and suicide in first-episode psychosis (FEP) 
patients. However, it is unclear if an agitated-aggressive syndrome as measured 
with the BPRS-EC is already present in at-risk mental state (ARMS).
METHODS: BPRS-EC scores from 43 ARMS patients, 50 FEP patients, and 25 healthy 
controls (HC) were analyzed. Multivariate analyses were performed to review if 
group differences were mediated by potential confounders. In addition, the 
association of BPRS-EC scores with clinical variables was examined.
RESULTS: BPRS-EC scores were significantly different across diagnostic groups 
(H(2)=22.1; p<.001), and post-hoc analyses showed significantly higher BPRS-EC 
scores for ARMS (p=.001) and for FEP patients (p<.001) compared to HC. 
Differences remained significant after controlling for gender, years of 
education, and intelligence. No significant differences emerged between ARMS and 
FEP patients. BPRS-EC was significantly correlated with lower intelligence 
(r=-.27; p=.008), reduced level of functioning (r=-.44; p<.001), and with 
smoking behavior (r=.22; p=.019).
CONCLUSIONS: ARMS and FEP patients in our sample had significantly higher 
BPRS-EC scores compared to HC. This may constitute a correlate of an 
agitated-aggressive syndrome and an increased risk for aggression and 
suicidality.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.schres.2014.06.014
PMID: 24996505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


965. Stud Hist Philos Biol Biomed Sci. 2014 Sep;47 Pt A:130-41. doi: 
10.1016/j.shpsc.2014.05.013. Epub 2014 Jul 3.

Surveying the meritocracy: the problems of intelligence and mobility in the 
studies of the Population Investigation Committee.

Ramsden E(1).

Author information:
(1)School of History, Arts 2 Building, Queen Mary, University of London, Mile 
End Road, London, E1 4NS, United Kingdom. Electronic address: 
e.ramsden@qmul.ac.uk.

The post-war era saw the emergence of large-scale and longitudinal social and 
medical surveys in Britain. That these surveys were both representative of an 
entire nation and could follow individuals throughout their lives, gave them a 
privileged position in relation to policy-making. This paper will focus on two 
closely interrelated surveys, both instigated by the Population Investigation 
Committee at London School of Economics-the National Survey of Health and 
Development, which began in 1946, and the Scottish Mental Survey of 1947. These 
surveys had a critical role in educational research and policy and, more 
specifically, in changing perspectives regarding the concept and measurement of 
intelligence. They were seen to privilege social and environmental factors as 
determinants of mental ability, and they shifted attention away from genetic 
factors and eugenic concerns. However, while the surveys were indeed powerful 
tools, their structure, the questions they asked, the methods they used and the 
choices made over the data to be tabulated, also determined what could be known. 
The paper will examine the growing criticism and debate over the large-scale 
survey. Many argued that smaller-scale studies were more effective in 
understanding the social and biological causes of intellectual differences, and 
better for identifying the benefits and dangers of using intelligence and merit 
as a means of organising society.

Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.shpsc.2014.05.013
PMID: 24997508 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


966. Mol Genet Metab. 2014 Aug;112(4):275-9. doi: 10.1016/j.ymgme.2014.06.002. Epub 
2014 Jun 21.

Galactose supplementation in phosphoglucomutase-1 deficiency; review and outlook 
for a novel treatable CDG.

Morava E(1).

Author information:
(1)Tulane University Medical Center, Department of Pediatrics, Hayward Genetics 
Center, New Orleans, LA, USA; Department of Pediatrics, Radboud University 
Nijmegen Medical Center, Nijmegen, The Netherlands. Electronic address: 
emoravakozicz@tulane.edu.

We recently redefined phosphoglucomutase-1 deficiency not only as an enzyme 
defect, involved in normal glycogen metabolism, but also an inborn error of 
protein glycosylation. Phosphoglucomutase-1 is a key enzyme in glycolysis and 
glycogenesis by catalyzing in the bidirectional transfer of phosphate from 
position 1 to 6 on glucose. Glucose-1-P and UDP-glucose are closely linked to 
galactose metabolism. Normal PGM1 activity is important for effective glycolysis 
during fasting. Activated glucose and galactose are essential for normal protein 
glycosylation. The complex defect involving abnormal concentrations of activated 
sugars leads to hypoglycemia and two major phenotypic presentations, one with 
primary muscle involvement and the other with severe multisystem disease. The 
multisystem phenotype includes growth delay and malformations, like cleft palate 
or uvula, and liver, endocrine and heart function with possible cardiomyopathy. 
The patients have normal intelligence. Decreased transferrin galactosylation is 
a characteristic finding on mass spectrometry. Previous in vitro studies in 
patient fibroblasts showed an improvement of glycosylation on galactose 
supplements. Four patients with PGM1 deficiency have been trialed on d-galactose 
(compassionate use), and showed improvement of serum transferrin 
hypoglycosylation. There was a parallel improvement of liver function, endocrine 
abnormalities and a decrease in the frequency of hypoglycemic episodes. No side 
effects have been observed. Galactose supplementation didn't seem to resolve all 
clinical symptoms. Adding complex carbohydrates showed an additional clinical 
amelioration. Based on the available clinical data we suggest to consider the 
use of 0.5-1g/kg/day d-galactose and maximum 50 g/day oral galactose therapy in 
PGM1-CDG. The existing data on galactose therapy have to be viewed as 
preliminary observations. A prospective multicenter trial is ongoing to evaluate 
the efficacy and optimal d-galactose dose of galactose supplementation.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymgme.2014.06.002
PMCID: PMC4180034
PMID: 24997537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: The authors have no 
conflicts of interest relevant to this article to disclose.


967. Environ Res. 2014 Aug;133:321-6. doi: 10.1016/j.envres.2014.05.024. Epub 2014 
Jul 7.

Impacts of prenatal exposures to polychlorinated biphenyls, methylmercury, and 
lead on intellectual ability of 42-month-old children in Japan.

Tatsuta N(1), Nakai K(2), Murata K(3), Suzuki K(4), Iwai-Shimada M(4), Kurokawa 
N(4), Hosokawa T(5), Satoh H(4).

Author information:
(1)Development and Environmental Medicine, Tohoku University Graduate School of 
Medicine, 2-1 Seiryo-machi, Aoba-ku, Miyagi, Sendai 980-8575, Japan.
(2)Development and Environmental Medicine, Tohoku University Graduate School of 
Medicine, 2-1 Seiryo-machi, Aoba-ku, Miyagi, Sendai 980-8575, Japan. Electronic 
address: nakaik@med.tohoku.ac.jp.
(3)Environmental Health Sciences, Akita University Graduate School of Medicine, 
Akita 010-8543, Japan.
(4)Environmental Health Sciences, Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine, 
Sendai 980-8575, Japan.
(5)Human Development and Disabilities, Tohoku University Graduate School of 
Education, Sendai 980-8576, Japan.

BACKGROUND: The age-specific impacts of perinatal exposures to polychlorinated 
biphenyls (PCB), methylmercury (MeHg), and lead on child neurodevelopment remain 
controversial. Since we have already reported the prenatal effects of these 
chemicals on neurodevelopment in 3-day-old and 30-month-old children of a birth 
cohort, the following effects were analyzed in the 42-month-old children in the 
same cohort.
METHODS: The Kaufman Assessment Battery for Children (K-ABC), comprised of four 
scales, was used to assess their intelligence and achievement. The relationships 
between the chemicals and K-ABC scores were analyzed using multivariate 
analyses.
RESULTS: The median values of chemicals in cord blood of 387 children were 46.5 
(5th and 95th percentiles, 16.7-115.7)ng/g-lipid for total PCB, 10.1 
(4.3-22.2)ng/g for total mercury (THg), and 1.0 (0.5-1.8) μg/dL for lead. Of the 
highly chlorinated PCB homologs, 9 CBs was negatively correlated with the 
sequential and mental processing score of the K-ABC (p<0.05). There were no 
significant correlations between any K-ABC score and either THg or lead. The 
negative effect of 9 CBs remained even after adjusting for THg, lead, and other 
confounders. The K-ABC scores were significantly lower in the boys than in the 
girls, and the standardized β of 9 CBs for the sequential and mental processing 
scores in multiple regression analysis was statistically significant in boys.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that intellectual ability in the 
developmental stage may be impaired by prenatal exposures to highly chlorinated 
PCB homologs, especially in Japanese boys.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envres.2014.05.024
PMID: 24998460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


968. Int J Psychophysiol. 2014 Sep;93(3):322-31. doi: 10.1016/j.ijpsycho.2014.06.015. 
Epub 2014 Jul 3.

The effects of theta transcranial alternating current stimulation (tACS) on 
fluid intelligence.

Pahor A(1), Jaušovec N(2).

Author information:
(1)University of Maribor, Slovenia.
(2)University of Maribor, Slovenia. Electronic address: norbert.jausovec@um.si.

The objective of the study was to explore the influence of transcranial 
alternating current stimulation (tACS) on resting brain activity and on measures 
of fluid intelligence. Theta tACS was applied to the left parietal and left 
frontal brain areas of healthy participants after which resting 
electroencephalogram (EEG) data was recorded. Following sham/active stimulation, 
the participants solved two tests of fluid intelligence while their EEG was 
recorded. The results showed that active theta tACS affected spectral power in 
theta and alpha frequency bands. In addition, active theta tACS improved 
performance on tests of fluid intelligence. This influence was more pronounced 
in the group of participants that received stimulation to the left parietal area 
than in the group of participants that received stimulation to the left frontal 
area. Left parietal tACS increased performance on the difficult test items of 
both tests (RAPM and PF&C) whereas left frontal tACS increased performance only 
on the easy test items of one test (RAPM). The observed behavioral tACS 
influences were also accompanied by changes in neuroelectric activity. The 
behavioral and neuroelectric data tentatively support the P-FIT neurobiological 
model of intelligence.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijpsycho.2014.06.015
PMID: 24998643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


969. Neuropsychology. 2015 Jan;29(1):82-91. doi: 10.1037/neu0000079. Epub 2014 Jul 7.

Neuroanatomical correlates of behavioral rating versus performance measures of 
working memory in typically developing children and adolescents.

Faridi N(1), Karama S(2), Burgaleta M(3), White MT, Evans AC(4), Fonov V(4), 
Collins DL(4), Waber DP(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, McGill University.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Douglas Mental Health University Institute.
(3)McConnell Brain Imaging Centre, Montreal Neurological Institute.
(4)McConnell Brain Imaging Centre, Montreal Neurological Institute, McGill 
University.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, Boston Children's Hospital, Harvard Medical School.

Erratum in
    Neuropsychology. 2015 Jan;29(1):91. White, Matthew [corrected to White, 
Matthew T].

OBJECTIVE: The frequent lack of correspondence between performance and 
observational measures of executive functioning, including working memory, has 
raised questions about the validity of the observational measures. This study 
was conducted to investigate sources of this discrepancy through correlation of 
volumetric and cortical thickness (CT) neuroimaging values with performance and 
questionnaire measures of working memory (WM).
METHODS: Using longitudinal data from the NIH MRI Study of Normal Brain 
Development (Volumes, N= 347, 54.3% female; CT, N= 350, 54.6% female; age range: 
6 to 16.9 years), scores on the Behavioral Rating Inventory of Executive 
Function (BRIEF) WM, Emotional Control (EC) and Inhibition (INH) scales; 
Wechsler Scale of Intelligence for Children-III Digit Span; and Cambridge 
Neuropsychological Test Battery Spatial Working Memory (CANTAB SWM) were 
correlated with each other and with morphometric measurements using mixed 
effects linear regression models.
RESULTS: BRIEF WM was correlated with CANTAB SWM (p < .001). With whole brain 
correction, BRIEF WM and EC were both correlated with CT of the posterior 
parahippocampal gyrus (PHG), EC on the right side only. Performance measures of 
WM were unrelated to lobar volumes or CT, but were associated with volumes of 
hippocampus and amygdala.
CONCLUSIONS: The known role of PHG in contextual learning suggests that the 
BRIEF WM assesses contextualized learning/memory, potentially explaining its 
loose correspondence to the decontextualized performance measures. Observational 
measures can be useful and valid functional metrics, complementing performance 
measures. Labels used to characterize scales should be interpreted with caution, 
however.

PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2015 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/neu0000079
PMCID: PMC6149534
PMID: 25000324 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


970. J Exp Psychol Gen. 2014 Oct;143(5):1837-60. doi: 10.1037/a0037190. Epub 2014 Jul 
7.

Selective influence of working memory load on exceptionally slow reaction times.

Shahar N(1), Teodorescu AR(2), Usher M(2), Pereg M(1), Meiran N(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology.
(2)Department of Psychology, Tel-Aviv University.

The rate of exceptionally slow reaction times (RTs), described by the long tail 
of the RT distribution, was found to be amplified in a variety of special 
populations with cognitive deficits (e.g., early-stage Alzheimer's disease, 
attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder, low intelligence, elderly). Previous 
individual differences studies found high correlations between working memory 
(WM) and parameters that characterize the magnitude of the long-RT tail. 
However, the causal direction remains unknown. In 3 choice-reaction task 
experiments, we examined this relationship by directly manipulating WM 
availability. In Experiment 1, the stimulus-response rules were either arbitrary 
(WM demanding) or nonarbitrary. In Experiment 2, the arbitrary rules were either 
novel (demanding) or practiced. In Experiment 3, WM was loaded with either 
declarative (stimulus-stimulus) or procedural (stimulus-response) arbitrary 
rules. Using an ex-Gaussian model fitting, we found across all experiments that 
WM demands uniquely influenced the τ parameter, mostly responsible for the 
long-RT distribution tail. Evidence accumulation modeling of the choice process 
indicated that WM load had little influence on the decision process itself and 
primarily affected the duration of an exponentially distributed nondecision 
component, assumed to reflect the process of rule retrieval. Theoretical 
interpretations and implications are discussed.

DOI: 10.1037/a0037190
PMID: 25000446 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


971. Psychol Res. 2015 Jul;79(4):570-8. doi: 10.1007/s00426-014-0594-0. Epub 2014 Jul 
8.

Individual differences in fluid intelligence predicts inattentional blindness in 
a sample of older adults: a preliminary study.

O'Shea DM(1), Fieo RA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, Scotland, UK, 
dmo2123@cumc.columbia.edu.

Previous research has shown that aging increases susceptibility to inattentional 
blindness (Graham and Burke, Psychol Aging 26:162, 2011) as well as individual 
differences in cognitive ability related to working memory and executive 
functions in separate studies. Therefore, the present study was conducted in an 
attempt to bridge a gap that involved investigating 'age-sensitive' cognitive 
abilities that may predict inattentional blindness in a sample of older adults. 
We investigated whether individual differences in general fluid intelligence and 
speed of processing would predict inattentional blindness in our sample of older 
adults. Thirty-six healthy older adults took part in the study. Using the 
inattentional blindness paradigm developed by Most et al. (Psychol Rev 112:217, 
2005), we investigated whether rates of inattentional blindness could be 
predicted by participant's performance on the Raven's Advanced Progressive 
Matrices and a choice-reaction time task. A Mann-Whitney U test revealed that a 
higher score on the Raven's Advanced Progressive Matrices was significantly 
associated with lower incidences of inattentional blindness. However, a t test 
revealed that choice-reaction times were not significantly associated with 
inattentional blindness. Preliminary results from the present study suggest that 
individual differences in general fluid intelligence are predictive of 
inattentional blindness in older adults but not speed of processing. Moreover, 
our findings are consistent with previous studies that have suggested executive 
attention control may be the source of these individual differences. These 
findings also highlight the association between attention and general fluid 
intelligence and how it may impact environmental awareness. Future research 
would benefit from repeating these analyses in a larger sample and also 
including a younger comparison group.

DOI: 10.1007/s00426-014-0594-0
PMID: 25001000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


972. Arq Neuropsiquiatr. 2014 Aug;72(8):613-8. doi: 10.1590/0004-282x20140098. Epub 
2014 Jul 4.

Mental health of children and adolescents with epilepsy: analysis of clinical 
and neuropsichological aspects.

Moreira Fde S(1), de Lima AB(2), Fonseca PC(1), Maia-Filho Hde S(1).

Author information:
(1)Universidade Federal Fluminense, Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil.
(2)Instituto de Psiquiatria, Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro, Rio de 
Janeiro, RJ, Brazil.

Epilepsy compromises the development of cognitive and social skills and 
represents a risk of psychiatric comorbidity.
OBJECTIVE: To compare psychopathological symptoms in children with epilepsy and 
in a healthy group, and to correlate the results with neuropsychological and 
clinical variables.
METHOD: Forty five children with idiopathic epilepsy and sixty five healthy 
controls underwent neuropsychological evaluation and their caregivers replied to 
a psychopathology questionnaire (Child Behavior Checklist - CBCL).
RESULTS: There were significant differences in CBCL, with poorer results showed 
mainly by patients with epilepsy. There was no significant association between 
any psychopathological symptom and disease duration or amount of antiepileptic 
drugs used. There was positive correlation between intelligence quocient and 
CBCL on items such as sluggish cognitive tempo, aggressive behavior, attention 
problems and activities and a negative relation between academic achievement, 
conduct and rule-breaking behavior.
CONCLUSION: Children with epilepsy had the worse results in the psychopathology 
evaluation. Certain psychopathological variables are related to the cognitive 
profile, with no relation to clinical variables.

DOI: 10.1590/0004-282x20140098
PMID: 25003397 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


973. J Christ Nurs. 2014 Jul-Sep;31(3):166-71. doi: 10.1097/cnj.0000000000000074.

Emotional intelligence and spiritual well-being: implications for spiritual 
care.

Beauvais A, Stewart JG, DeNisco S.

Understanding factors that influence spiritual well-being may improve nurses' 
spiritual caregiving. This study examined relationships between emotional 
intelligence (EI) and spiritual well-being (SWB) in undergraduate and graduate 
nursing students. Using the Mayer-Salovey-Caruso Emotional Intelligence Test 
(MSCEIT) and the spiritual well-being scale (SWBS) relationships were found 
between managing emotion and spiritual well-being, and managing emotion and 
existential well-being. Implications for education and practice are discussed.

DOI: 10.1097/cnj.0000000000000074
PMID: 25004728 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


974. Res Dev Disabil. 2014 Oct;35(10):2558-67. doi: 10.1016/j.ridd.2014.06.019. Epub 
2014 Jul 5.

Measuring intellectual ability in children with cerebral palsy: can we do 
better?

Sherwell S(1), Reid SM(2), Reddihough DS(3), Wrennall J(4), Ong B(5), Stargatt 
R(1).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Sciences, Murdoch Childrens Research Institute, Melbourne, 
Australia; Psychological Science, LaTrobe University, Melbourne, Australia.
(2)Clinical Sciences, Murdoch Childrens Research Institute, Melbourne, 
Australia; Department of Paediatrics, University of Melbourne, Australia. 
Electronic address: sue.reid@mcri.edu.au.
(3)Clinical Sciences, Murdoch Childrens Research Institute, Melbourne, 
Australia; Department of Paediatrics, University of Melbourne, Australia; 
Department of Developmental Medicine, Royal Children's Hospital, Melbourne, 
Australia.
(4)Department of Psychology, Royal Children's Hospital, Melbourne, Australia.
(5)Psychological Science, LaTrobe University, Melbourne, Australia.

Standard intelligence tests such as the WPPSI-III have limitations when testing 
children with motor impairment. This study aimed to determine the proportion of 
children with cerebral palsy with sufficient verbal and motor skills to complete 
the WPPSI-III, to determine their comparative ability to complete tasks with and 
without a significant motor component, and to investigate short forms of the 
WPPSI-III as alternatives. Participants were 78 of 235 eligible 4-5 year old 
children with cerebral palsy resident in the Australian state of Victoria. 
Verbal IQ (VIQ), Performance IQ (PIQ), and Full-scale IQ (FSIQ) were determined 
using the WPPSI-III. Initial screening for pointing and verbal abilities 
determined which tests were attempted. The impact of speed was investigated by 
comparing scores on the Block Design subtest with and without an imposed time 
limit. FSIQ scores were calculated from two short forms of the WPPSI-III and 
compared to the full form. On screening, 16 children had inadequate pointing 
(14) and verbal abilities (2). FSIQ was obtained in 62 (82%) children. Strong 
associations were seen between completion of the entire test battery and 
topographical pattern, level of manual ability and level of gross motor 
function. Scores on subtests requiring manual ability were depressed relative to 
other scores. Children performed better using short forms of the WPPSI-III and, 
for a minority, when time limits were disregarded. In summary, children with 
cerebral palsy often lack the fine and gross motor skills necessary to complete 
the WPPSI-III, scoring relatively poorly on tasks requiring a fine motor 
response. Using short-form estimations of FSIQ comprised of subtests without a 
significant fine motor component has the potential to increase a child's FSIQ by 
approximately 5 points. These findings have important clinical implications when 
assessing a child with both motor and cognitive limitations.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ridd.2014.06.019
PMID: 25005064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


975. Rev Neurol. 2014 Jul 16;59(2):71-6.

[Accidental finding of a cri du chat syndrome in an adult patient by means of 
array-CGH].

[Article in Spanish; Abstract available in Spanish from the publisher]

Ferreirós-Martínez R, López-Manzanares L, Alonso-Cerezo C(1).

Author information:
(1)Hospital Universitario de la Princesa, 28006 Madrid, Espana.

INTRODUCTION: The cri du chat syndrome (CDCS) come from a partial or total 
deletion of the short arm of chromosome 5, being one of the most common deletion 
syndromes in human beings. The great majority of patients are diagnosed between 
the first month and first year of life, but herein we report a finding of a CDCS 
in a woman with a suspect of spinocerebellar ataxia, and a family medical record 
of ataxia and bipolar disorder. We pay special attention to the clinical 
features as well as the diagnostics tests, used to identify the CDCS.
CASE REPORT: We report a case of a 46 years-old woman showing a borderline 
intelligence and bilateral cataract surgery at the age of 43. Beginning of 
symptoms in childhood included hypoacusia, ataxia, dysarthria, dysphagia, 
depression, cognitive impairment and bipolar disorder. Physical examination 
showed microcephaly, micrognathia, talipes equinovarus and ataxia. Karyotype and 
array-CGH were carried out on peripheral blood. The patient showed a 
rearrangement involving chromosomes 5 and 15, as well as an inversion of 
chromosome 9: 45,XX,inv9(p11q13);t(5,15)(p15.33;q11.2). Array comparative 
genomic hybridization was performed showing a 2.91 Mb deletion at 5p15.33, 
genomic formula arr 5p15.33 (151537-3057771)x1. The deletion involved 20 genes, 
including TERT gene.
CONCLUSIONS: The multiple gene deletions confirmed the CDCS diagnosis, being 
responsible for the patient phenotype. It has been showed up the importance of 
using the correct diagnosis techniques (array-CGH, peripheral blood karyotype) 
as well as their appropriate choice.

Publisher: TITLE: Hallazgo inesperado de sindrome cri du chat en una paciente 
adulta mediante array-CGH.
Introduccion. El sindrome cri du chat (SCDC) tiene su origen en una delecion 
parcial o total del brazo corto del cromosoma 5, y es uno de los sindromes de 
delecion cromosomica mas frecuentes en humanos. La mayoria de los pacientes se 
diagnostica entre el primer mes y el primer año de vida, si bien aqui se 
describe el hallazgo de un SCDC en una mujer con sospecha de ataxia 
espinocerebelar y antecedentes familiares de trastorno bipolar y ataxia, con 
especial atencion a las caracteristicas clinicas y las tecnicas diagnosticas que 
permitieron su identificacion. Caso clinico. Mujer de 46 años que presentaba una 
inteligencia limite, intervenida a los 43 años de faquectomia bilateral. El 
inicio de la sintomatologia fue durante la infancia, e incluia hipoacusia, 
ataxia, disartria, disfagia, depresion, deterioro cognitivo y trastorno bipolar. 
La exploracion fisica revelo microcefalia, micrognatia, pies equinos y ataxia. 
Se realizo cariotipo y array-CGH en sangre periferica. La paciente presentaba 
una traslocacion que involucraba los cromosomas 5 y 15, y una inversion del 
cromosoma 9: 45,XX,inv9(p11q13);t(5,15)(p15.33;q11.2). El array-CGH mostro una 
delecion de 2,91 Mb en 5p15.33, formula genomica arr 5p15.33 (151537-3057771)x1, 
que involucraba 20 genes, incluyendo el gen TERT. Conclusiones. La delecion de 
multiples genes confirmo el diagnostico de SCDC y es la responsable del fenotipo 
de la paciente. Se pone de manifiesto la importancia de utilizar tecnicas 
adecuadas de diagnostico (array-CGH, cariotipo en sangre periferica) y la 
correcta eleccion de estas.

PMID: 25005318 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


976. Neuroreport. 2014 Aug 20;25(12):943-7. doi: 10.1097/WNR.0000000000000217.

An exploratory study of using polygraph to detect deception in patients with 
traumatic brain injury.

Li G(1), Hu Z.

Author information:
(1)Department of Forensic Psychiatry, West China School of Preclinical and 
Forensic Medicine, Sichuan University, Sichuan, People's Republic of China.

To investigate the accuracy of the polygraph when used on patients with 
traumatic brain injury (TBI) and to analyze the factors influencing accuracy to 
enable provision of some field data for expert witnesses. Sixty patients with 
TBI (experimental group) and sixty normal individuals (control group) were 
tested by the polygraph with a Stimulation Test; responses of skin conductance, 
respiration, and finger pulse were recorded. The intelligence quotient of the 
experimental participants was measured and the factors influencing the accuracy 
of the polygraph test were analyzed. According to the computer automatic 
scoring, the overall accuracy was 76.7% for the control group; the accuracy of 
skin conductance, respiration, and finger pulse was 76.7, 35, and 18.7%, 
respectively, whereas for the experimental group, the overall accuracy was 
56.7%. The accuracy of skin conductance, respiration, and finger pulse was 55.6, 
23.3, and 25%, respectively. There was a significant difference in the overall 
accuracy between the two groups (P=0.020). According to the examiner's manual 
scoring, the overall accuracy was 86.7% for the control group and 61.7% for the 
experimental group (χ=9.786, P=0.002). The difference in accuracy obtained from 
the examiner and the computer was not significant. In the experimental group, 
the intelligence quotient of participants who had the right outcome was 
63.2±10.9 and it was 55.3±9.5 for those who had the wrong outcome; this 
difference was significant (t=2.68, P=0.010).The accuracy of a polygraph test is 
much lower when it is used on patients with TBI compared with that of normal 
individuals. In actual application, full communication with the examinees should 
take place and their comprehension of the protocol should be evaluated. If 
participants can understand and co-operate with the test, the outcome can be 
considered reliable; if not, the outcome should not be relied on.

DOI: 10.1097/WNR.0000000000000217
PMID: 25006847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


977. Cardiol Young. 2015 Jun;25(5):903-10. doi: 10.1017/S1047951114001140. Epub 2014 
Jul 10.

Neurodevelopmental outcome following open heart surgery in infancy: 6-year 
follow-up.

Jones B(1), Muscara F(2), Lloyd O(3), McKinlay L(3), Justo R(4).

Author information:
(1)1Department of Cardiology,The Royal Children's Hospital,Melbourne,Australia.
(2)3Murdoch Children's Research Institute,Melbourne,Australia.
(3)4Queensland Paediatric Rehabilitation Service,Royal Children's 
Hospital,Brisbane,Australia.
(4)5Queensland Paediatric Cardiac Service,Mater Health 
Services,Brisbane,Australia.

BACKGROUND: Children undergoing open heart surgery are at risk of neurological 
injury. A cohort of 35 patients, who had undergone cardiac surgery during 
infancy, had a significant reduction in Bayley Scale of Infant Development 
scores at a 12-month assessment. This cohort has now reached an appropriate age 
to reassess developmental progress.
METHODS: Detailed psychometric testing was conducted on 20 children from the 
original cohort using the Weschler Preschool and Primary Scale of Intelligence, 
the Wide Range Assessment of Memory and Learning, and the Wechsler Individual 
Achievement Test. Parents completed the Connor's Rating Scale, the Behaviour 
Rating Scale of Executive Functioning, and the Child Behaviour Checklist.
RESULTS: The mean age of the cohort at assessment was 6.6 (standard deviation 
0.4) years. Mean scores on all tests of intelligence, memory, academic 
achievement, and executive function fell within the average range. Of the 
children, 20-35% were found to have significant difficulties across these areas. 
Mean scores in the areas of social, emotional, behavioural, and psychological 
functioning also fell within the average range. Of the children studied, 35% had 
clinically significant problems in these areas. There was only a weak 
association between the 12-month scores and the Full-Scale Intelligence Quotient 
at 6 years.
CONCLUSION: Detailed psychometric testing of these children suggests that they 
generally function in the average range; however, a significant proportion falls 
below age expectations in all the areas assessed. This highlights the importance 
of long-term follow-up with routine developmental screening to allow 
identification of a subgroup that may benefit from early educational and 
behavioural intervention.

DOI: 10.1017/S1047951114001140
PMID: 25008002 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


978. Front Behav Neurosci. 2014 Jun 25;8:227. doi: 10.3389/fnbeh.2014.00227. 
eCollection 2014.

Impairments in Episodic-Autobiographical Memory and Emotional and Social 
Information Processing in CADASIL during Mid-Adulthood.

Staniloiu A(1), Woermann FG(2), Markowitsch HJ(3).

Author information:
(1)Physiological Psychology, University of Bielefeld , Bielefeld , Germany ; 
Hanse Institute of Advanced Science , Delmenhorst , Germany.
(2)MRI Unit, Bethel Epilepsy Center , Bielefeld , Germany.
(3)Physiological Psychology, University of Bielefeld , Bielefeld , Germany ; 
Center of Excellence "Cognitive Interaction Technology" (CITEC), University of 
Bielefeld , Bielefeld , Germany.

Cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and 
leukoencephalopathy (CADASIL) - is the most common genetic source of vascular 
dementia in adults, being caused by a mutation in NOTCH3 gene. Spontaneous de 
novo mutations may occur, but their frequency is largely unknown. Ischemic 
strokes and cognitive impairments are the most frequent manifestations, but 
seizures affect up to 10% of the patients. Herein, we describe a 47-year-old 
male scholar with a genetically confirmed diagnosis of CADASIL (Arg133Cys 
mutation in the NOTCH3 gene) and a seemingly negative family history of CADASIL 
illness, who was investigated with a comprehensive neuropsychological testing 
battery and neuroimaging methods. The patient demonstrated on one hand severe 
and accelerated deteriorations in multiple cognitive domains such as 
concentration, long-term memory (including the episodic-autobiographical memory 
domain), problem solving, cognitive flexibility and planning, affect 
recognition, discrimination and matching, and social cognition (theory of mind). 
Some of these impairments were even captured by abbreviated instruments for 
investigating suspicion of dementia. On the other hand the patient still 
possessed high crystallized (verbal) intelligence and a capacity to put forth a 
façade of well-preserved intellectual functioning. Although no definite 
conclusions can be drawn from a single case study, our findings point to the 
presence of additional cognitive changes in CADASIL in middle adulthood, in 
particular to impairments in the episodic-autobiographical memory domain and 
social information processing (e.g., social cognition). Whether these identified 
impairments are related to the patient's specific phenotype or to an 
ascertainment bias (e.g., a paucity of studies investigating these cognitive 
functions) requires elucidation by larger scale research.

DOI: 10.3389/fnbeh.2014.00227
PMCID: PMC4069576
PMID: 25009481


979. Front Psychol. 2014 Jun 24;5:655. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.00655. eCollection 
2014.

The reciprocal relationship between executive function and theory of mind in 
middle childhood: a 1-year longitudinal perspective.

Austin G(1), Groppe K(1), Elsner B(1).

Author information:
(1)Developmental Psychology, Department of Psychology, University of Potsdam 
Potsdam, Germany.

There is robust evidence showing a link between executive function (EF) and 
theory of mind (ToM) in 3- to 5-year-olds. However, it is unclear whether this 
relationship extends to middle childhood. In addition, there has been much 
discussion about the nature of this relationship. Whereas some authors claim 
that ToM is needed for EF, others argue that ToM requires EF. To date, however, 
studies examining the longitudinal relationship between distinct subcomponents 
of EF [i.e., attention shifting, working memory (WM) updating, inhibition] and 
ToM in middle childhood are rare. The present study examined (1) the 
relationship between three EF subcomponents (attention shifting, WM updating, 
inhibition) and ToM in middle childhood, and (2) the longitudinal reciprocal 
relationships between the EF subcomponents and ToM across a 1-year period. EF 
and ToM measures were assessed experimentally in a sample of 1,657 children 
(aged 6-11 years) at time point one (t1) and 1 year later at time point two 
(t2). Results showed that the concurrent relationships between all three EF 
subcomponents and ToM pertained in middle childhood at t1 and t2, respectively, 
even when age, gender, and fluid intelligence were partialled out. Moreover, 
cross-lagged structural equation modeling (again, controlling for age, gender, 
and fluid intelligence, as well as for the earlier levels of the target 
variables), revealed partial support for the view that early ToM predicts later 
EF, but stronger evidence for the assumption that early EF predicts later ToM. 
The latter was found for attention shifting and WM updating, but not for 
inhibition. This reveals the importance of studying the exact interplay of ToM 
and EF across childhood development, especially with regard to different EF 
subcomponents. Most likely, understanding others' mental states at different 
levels of perspective-taking requires specific EF subcomponents, suggesting 
developmental change in the relations between EF and ToM across childhood.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.00655
PMCID: PMC4068105
PMID: 25009527


980. JAMA Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg. 2014 Aug;140(8):720-6. doi: 
10.1001/jamaoto.2014.1169.

A longitudinal study of emotional intelligence training for otolaryngology 
residents and faculty.

Dugan JW(1), Weatherly RA(2), Girod DA(3), Barber CE(4), Tsue TT(5).

Author information:
(1)Counseling and Educational Support Services, University of Kansas Medical 
Center, Kansas City, Kansas2now with the Department of Student Affairs, Kansas 
City University of Medicine and Biosciences, Kansas City, Missouri.
(2)Department of Otolaryngology and Head & Neck Surgery, University of Kansas 
Medical Center, Kansas City, Kansas4now with the Department of Surgery, 
Children's Mercy Hospital, Kansas City, Missouri.
(3)Department of Otolaryngology and Head & Neck Surgery, University of Kansas 
Medical Center, Kansas City, Kansas5now executive vice chancellor of the 
University of Kansas Medical Center, Kansas City.
(4)Division of Counseling and Educational Psychology, University of Missouri, 
Kansas City, Missouri.
(5)Department of Otolaryngology and Head & Neck Surgery, University of Kansas 
Medical Center, Kansas City, Kansas7now with the Cancer Institute, University of 
Kansas Medical Center, Westwood.

IMPORTANCE: Emotions underlie and influence physician communications and 
relationships with patients and colleagues. Training programs to enhance 
emotional attunement, or emotional intelligence (EI), for physicians and assess 
training effects are scarce.
OBJECTIVE: To assess whether an EI training program for otolaryngology residents 
and faculty affects patient satisfaction.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: Prospective longitudinal, cohort study of 
physician residents and faculty in an EI training program at the Department of 
Otolaryngology, University of Kansas Medical Center, with annual training from 
2005 to 2011.
INTERVENTIONS: Three levels of interventions included 4 years of repeated EI 
assessment, 7 years of highly interactive EI training with high-risk/high-stress 
simulations, and ongoing modeling and mentoring of EI skills by faculty.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Four levels of outcome of the EI training were 
assessed with the following questions: Did participants enjoy the program? Could 
they apply the training to their practice? Did it change their behavior? Did it 
affect patient satisfaction? The Emotional Quotient Inventory (EQ-i) was 
administered to faculty and residents, and the Press Ganey Patient Satisfaction 
Survey was completed by patients.
RESULTS: Ninety-seven percent of participants (103 of 106) reported that they 
enjoyed the programs, and 98% (104 of 106) reported that they have or could have 
applied what they learned. Participants demonstrated improvement in mean EQ-i 
scores from 102.19 (baseline/pretraining) to 107.29 (posttraining and assessment 
1 year later; change, 6.71; 95% CI, 3.44-9.98). This increase was sustained in 
successive years, and these results were supported with linear growth curve 
analysis. The total department mean EQ-i score in pretraining year 2005 was 
104.29 ("average" range), with posttraining scores in the "high average" range 
(112.46 in 2006, 111.67 in 2007, and 113.15 in 2008). An increase in EQ-i scores 
and EI training corresponded with an increase in patient satisfaction scores. 
Percentile rank patient satisfaction scores before EI training ranged from 85% 
to 90%; after training, scores ranged from 92% to 99%.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Emotional intelligence training positively influences 
patient satisfaction and may enhance medical education and health care outcome.

DOI: 10.1001/jamaoto.2014.1169
PMID: 25011036 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


981. Span J Psychol. 2014;17:E15. doi: 10.1017/sjp.2014.17.

Incremental prediction and moderating role of the perceived emotional 
intelligence over aggressive behavior.

Peláez-Fernández MA(1), Extremera N(1), Fernández-Berrocal P(1).

Author information:
(1)Universidad de Málaga (Spain).

The aim of this research was to explore the influence of Perceived Emotional 
Intelligence (PEI) on aggression dimensions (Physical Aggression, Verbal 
Aggression, Hostility, and Anger) above and beyond the effects of gender, age, 
and personality traits (Extraversion, Agreeableness, Conscientiousness, 
Neuroticism, and Openness to Experience), as well as the moderating role of PEI 
on the relationship between personality and aggressive behavior, among young 
adults. The Trait Meta-Mood Scale, the Big-Five Inventory, and the Aggression 
Questionnaire were administered to a 313 Spanish community sample, comprised of 
both males (39.0%) and females (61.0%), ranging from 14 to 69 years old (X = 
24.74; SD = 9.27). Controlling the effects of age, gender, and personality, PEI 
dimensions (Attention, Clarity and Repair) accounted for 3% of the variance (p < 
.05) in Verbal Aggression and Hostility. Interaction analysis showed that all 
PEI subscales moderated the relationship between four out of the Big-Five 
personality dimensions (Extraversion, Agreeableness, Neuroticism, and Openness 
to Experience) and the aggression dimensions. Particularly, the interaction 
between Attention and Extraversion and between Clarity and Neuroticism were 
significant predictors of Total Aggression (b = .67, t(313) = 2.35, p < .05; b = 
-.71, t(313) = -2.50, p < .05). The results show evidence of the predictive and 
incremental validity of PEI dimensions on aggressive behavior among young adults 
and of the moderating role of PEI on the personality-aggression relationship.

DOI: 10.1017/sjp.2014.17
PMID: 25012084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


982. J Affect Disord. 2014 Sep;166:14-21. doi: 10.1016/j.jad.2014.04.051. Epub 2014 
May 5.

Cognitive functions in euthymic Egyptian patients with bipolar disorder: are 
they different from healthy controls?

Okasha TA(1), El Sheikh MM(2), El Missiry AA(1), El Missiry MA(1), El Serafi 
D(1), El Kholy S(1), Abdel Aziz K(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Psychiatry, Ain Shams University, Cairo, Egypt.
(2)Institute of Psychiatry, Ain Shams University, Cairo, Egypt. Electronic 
address: mona.m.elsheikh@gmail.com.
(3)East Kent Neuropsychiatry Service Ashford, Ashford, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: There is marked interest to research neurocognitive functions in 
bipolar disorder during euthymia. Consequently we aimed to study cognitive 
functions in euthymic bipolar patients and factors affecting them.
METHODS: It is a cross sectional case-control study of 60 euthymic bipolar 
patients and 30 matched healthy controls. They were subjected to: Structured 
Clinical Interview for DSM-IV disorders, (SCID-I) to ascertain clinical 
diagnosis, Young Mania Rating Scale (YMRS), Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression 
(HRSD) to validate euthymia. Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale (WAIS) for 
general intellectual abilities, Wechsler Memory Scale-Revised (WMS-R) for 
memory, Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST) for executive functions, Continuous 
Performance Test (CPT) for attention and impulsivity, and an information sheet 
gathering patient data.
RESULTS: Bipolar patients had statistically significant lower mean IQ scores in 
all WAIS subscales (p=0.000), significantly lower memory abilities especially 
digit span and visual memory, higher impulsivity and inattention (p=0.000) but 
no significant difference in response time by CPT. They displayed significantly 
lower executive performance on WCST. Patients' years of education correlated 
positively with IQ. Hospital admission, number, type of episodes and total 
number of episodes affected memory functions. Hospital admission and number of 
hypomanic episodes correlated with attention and impulsivity. Previous 
hospitalization correlated with executive functions.
CONCLUSIONS: Euthymic bipolar patients exhibit cognitive deficits, which 
correlated with clinical variables as number, type of episodes and previous 
hospitalization, this knowledge could help minimize cognitive impairments for 
future patients.
LIMITATIONS: The small sample size, cross sectional design and lack of premorbid 
cognitive assessment limit generalization of findings.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2014.04.051
PMID: 25012405 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


983. Span J Psychol. 2014;17:E49. doi: 10.1017/sjp.2014.53.

The influence of culture of honor and emotional intelligence in the 
acculturation of Moroccan immigrant women.

Lopez-Zafra E(1), El Ghoudani K(1).

Author information:
(1)Universidad de Jaén (Spain).

Migration is a normal process of people seeking new opportunities, work, or 
leisure in societies. The way people adapt to a new country (acculturation) is a 
complex process in which immigrants' evaluations about the culture of origin and 
their perceptions of the host country interact. The combination of these two 
factors produces four types of acculturation: separation, assimilation, 
integration, and marginalization. Several variables, such as personality, 
attitudes, and emotional intelligence, have been studied to help explain this 
process. However, the impact of a culture of honor and its interaction with 
other variables remains an open question that may help to explain how migrants 
can better adjust to their host culture. In this study, we examine the influence 
of the culture of honor (social) and emotional intelligence (individual) on 
acculturation. In a sample of 129 Moroccan women (mean age = 29, SD = 9.40) 
immigrants in Spain (mean time in Spain = 6 years, SD = 3.60), we investigated 
the relations among the variables of interest. Our results show that no 
significant differences emerged in the scores given for culture of honor (CH) 
and the acculturation strategies of the Moroccan immigrant women F(3, 99) = 
.233; p = .87. However women who preferred the integration strategy scored 
highest on emotional intelligence (EI), whereas the assimilated immigrants 
showed the lowest scores for EI F(3, 92) = 4.63; p = .005. Additionally, only in 
the case of integration does EI mediate between CH and the value given to the 
immigrant's own and host cultures (p <.001).

DOI: 10.1017/sjp.2014.53
PMID: 25012470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


984. J Surg Educ. 2014 Nov-Dec;71(6):e33-40. doi: 10.1016/j.jsurg.2014.05.003. Epub 
2014 Jul 8.

Are there gender differences in the emotional intelligence of resident 
physicians?

McKinley SK(1), Petrusa ER(2), Fiedeldey-Van Dijk C(3), Mullen JT(2), Smink 
DS(4), Scott-Vernaglia SE(5), Kent TS(6), Black-Schaffer WS(7), Phitayakorn 
R(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts. 
Electronic address: skmckinley@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Surgery, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts.
(3)ePsy Consultancy, Toronto, Canada.
(4)Department of Surgery, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts.
(5)Department of Pediatrics, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts.
(6)Department of Surgery, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, 
Massachusetts.
(7)Department of Pathology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts.

BACKGROUND: Because academic literature indicates that emotional intelligence 
(EI) is tied to work performance, job satisfaction, burnout, and client 
satisfaction, there is great interest in understanding physician EI.
OBJECTIVE: To determine whether gender differences in resident EI profiles 
mirror EI gender differences in the general population.
STUDY DESIGN (INCLUDE PARTICIPANTS AND SETTING): A total of 325 residents in 3 
types of residency programs (pathology, pediatrics, and general surgery) at 3 
large academic institutions were invited electronically to complete the 
validated Trait Emotional Intelligence Questionnaire (TEIQue), a tool consisting 
of 153 items that cluster to 15 independent facets, 4 composite factors, and 1 
global EI score.
RESULTS: The response rate was 42.8% (n = 139, women = 84). Global EI was not 
significantly different between men and women resident physicians (p = 0.74). 
Women scored higher than men in the TEIQue facets impulse control (p = 0.004) 
and relationships (p = 0.004). Men scored higher than women in 2 facets, stress 
management (p = 0.008) and emotion management (p = 0.023). Within surgery (n = 
85, women = 46), women scored higher than men in impulse control (p = 0.006), 
whereas men scored higher in stress management (p = 0.008).
CONCLUSIONS: Men and women residents across 3 specialties demonstrated 
near-identical global EI scores. However, gender differences in specific TEIQue 
facets suggest that similar to the general population, men and women residents 
may benefit from specific training of different EI domains to enhance 
well-rounded development. The lack of significant gender differences within 
surgery may indicate that surgery attracts individuals with particular EI 
profiles regardless of gender. Future research should focus on the functional 
relationship between educational interventions that promote targeted EI 
development and enhanced clinical performance.

Copyright © 2014 Association of Program Directors in Surgery. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jsurg.2014.05.003
PMID: 25012606 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


985. J Educ Health Promot. 2014 May 5;3:45. doi: 10.4103/2277-9531.131933. 
eCollection 2014.

Yoga therapy for promoting emotional sensitivity in University students.

Ganpat TS(1), Dash S(2), Ramarao NH(1).

Author information:
(1)Swami Vivekananda Yoga Anusandhana Samsthana, Bangalore, India.
(2)(S-VYASA) University, Bangalore, India.

BACKGROUND: Students need emotional intelligence (EI) for their better academic 
excellence. There are three important psychological dimensions of EI: Emotional 
sensitivity (ES), emotional maturity (EM) and emotional competency (EC), which 
motivate students to recognize truthfully, interpret honestly and handle 
tactfully the dynamics of their behavioral pattern.
OBJECTIVE: The study was designed to assess ES in the students undergoing yoga 
therapy program in the form of yoga instructor's course (YIC) module.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: One hundred and eighty four YIC students with 25.77 ± 
4.85 years of mean age participated in this study of 21 days duration (a single 
group pre-post design). The ES data was collected before (pre) and after (post) 
YIC module using Emotional Quotient test developed by Dr Dalip Singh and Dr N K 
Chadha.
STATISTICAL ANALYSIS: Means, standard deviations, Kolmogorov-Smirnov test, and 
Wilcoxon signed rank test were used for analyzing the data with the help of SPSS 
16.
RESULTS: The data analysis showed 3.63% significant increase (P < 0.01) in ES.
CONCLUSION: The present study suggests that YIC module can result in improvement 
of ES among university students, thus paving the way for their academic success. 
Additional well-designed studies are needed before a strong recommendation can 
be made.

DOI: 10.4103/2277-9531.131933
PMCID: PMC4089144
PMID: 25013838

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None declared


986. ScientificWorldJournal. 2014;2014:183809. doi: 10.1155/2014/183809. Epub 2014 
Jun 11.

A solution quality assessment method for swarm intelligence optimization 
algorithms.

Zhang Z(1), Wang GG(2), Zou K(1), Zhang J(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Electrical Engineering and Automation, Jiangsu Normal University, 
Xuzhou, Jiangsu 221116, China.
(2)School of Computer Science and Technology, Jiangsu Normal University, Xuzhou, 
Jiangsu 221116, China.

Nowadays, swarm intelligence optimization has become an important optimization 
tool and wildly used in many fields of application. In contrast to many 
successful applications, the theoretical foundation is rather weak. Therefore, 
there are still many problems to be solved. One problem is how to quantify the 
performance of algorithm in finite time, that is, how to evaluate the solution 
quality got by algorithm for practical problems. It greatly limits the 
application in practical problems. A solution quality assessment method for 
intelligent optimization is proposed in this paper. It is an experimental 
analysis method based on the analysis of search space and characteristic of 
algorithm itself. Instead of "value performance," the "ordinal performance" is 
used as evaluation criteria in this method. The feasible solutions were 
clustered according to distance to divide solution samples into several parts. 
Then, solution space and "good enough" set can be decomposed based on the 
clustering results. Last, using relative knowledge of statistics, the evaluation 
result can be got. To validate the proposed method, some intelligent algorithms 
such as ant colony optimization (ACO), particle swarm optimization (PSO), and 
artificial fish swarm algorithm (AFS) were taken to solve traveling salesman 
problem. Computational results indicate the feasibility of proposed method.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/183809
PMCID: PMC4074964
PMID: 25013845 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


987. Brain Connect. 2014 Oct;4(8):608-18. doi: 10.1089/brain.2014.0237. Epub 2014 Aug 
15.

Structure, integrity, and function of the hypoplastic corpus callosum in spina 
bifida myelomeningocele.

Crawley JT(1), Hasan K, Hannay HJ, Dennis M, Jockell C, Fletcher JM.

Author information:
(1)1 Department of Psychology, University of Houston , Houston, Texas.

Although there are many studies of people with complete or partial hypogenesis 
of the corpus callosum (CC), little is understood about the hypoplastic CC in 
which all structures are present but thinned. Spina bifida myelomeningocele 
(SBM) is a model organism for such studies because many have either a 
hypogenetic or hypoplastic CC. We used diffusion tensor tractography (DTT) to 
evaluate the hypoplastic CC in SBM and its relation to interhemispheric 
functions and intelligence quotient (IQ). Participants were individuals with SBM 
and an intact or hypoplastic CC (n=28), who were compared to a typically 
developing comparison group (n=32). Total and regional DTT volume and integrity 
measures (fractional anisotropy, axial diffusivity, and radial diffusivity) of 
the CC were related to measures of intelligence (IQ), bimanual motor 
functioning, and dichotic auditory performance. As predicted, DTT showed 
variations in volume and integrity that were maximized in the entire CC and the 
posterior CC. IQ correlated with entire CC volume, anterior and posterior 
regional CC volumes, and also with measures of integrity. Bimanual motor 
functioning correlated with the anterior and posterior volumes of the CC but not 
with any integrity measures. Axial diffusivity in the posterior CC was 
negatively correlated with right ear dichotic listening performance. The 
hypoplastic CC is not macrostructurally or microstructurally intact in SBM, even 
when it appears radiologically intact. Both volume and integrity of the 
posterior regions were related to reductions in IQ and to interhemispheric 
processing. These findings may transfer to other disorders characterized by a 
hypoplastic CC.

DOI: 10.1089/brain.2014.0237
PMCID: PMC4203469
PMID: 25014561 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


988. Comput Methods Programs Biomed. 2014 Oct;116(3):236-48. doi: 
10.1016/j.cmpb.2014.06.005. Epub 2014 Jun 17.

A web-based e-learning application for wound diagnosis and treatment.

Veredas FJ(1), Ruiz-Bandera E(2), Villa-Estrada F(3), Rufino-González JF(4), 
Morente L(5).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Lenguajes y Ciencias de la Computación, Universidad de 
Málaga, Málaga 29071, Spain. Electronic address: franveredas@uma.es.
(2)Servicio Andaluz de Salud, Junta de Andalucía, Málaga 29001, Spain. 
Electronic address: erbandera@malaga.es.
(3)Servicio Andaluz de Salud, Junta de Andalucía, Málaga 29001, Spain. 
Electronic address: paquivillaestrada@gmail.com.
(4)Servicio Andaluz de Salud, Junta de Andalucía, Málaga 29001, Spain. 
Electronic address: j.f.rufino.gonzalez@gmail.com.
(5)Escuela Universitaria de Enfermería, Diputación de Málaga, Málaga 29071, 
Spain. Electronic address: lmorente@malaga.es.

Pressure ulcers (PrU) are considered as one of the most challenging problems 
that Nursing professionals have to deal with in their daily practice. Nowadays, 
the education on PrUs is mainly based on traditional lecturing, seminars and 
face-to-face instruction, sometimes with the support of photographs of wounds 
being used as teaching material. This traditional educational methodology 
suffers from some important limitations, which could affect the efficacy of the 
learning process. This current study has been designed to introduce information 
and communication technologies (ICT) in the education on PrU for undergraduate 
students, with the main objective of evaluating the advantages an disadvantages 
of using ICT, by comparing the learning results obtained from using an 
e-learning tool with those from a traditional teaching methodology. In order to 
meet this major objective, a web-based learning system named ePULab has been 
designed and developed as an adaptive e-learning tool for the autonomous 
acquisition of knowledge on PrU evaluation. This innovative system has been 
validated by means of a randomized controlled trial that compares its learning 
efficacy with that from a control group receiving a traditional face-to-face 
instruction. Students using ePULab gave significantly better (p<0.01) learning 
acquisition scores (from pre-test mean 8.27 (SD 1.39) to post-test mean 15.83 
(SD 2.52)) than those following traditional lecture-style classes (from pre-test 
mean 8.23 (SD 1.23) to post-test mean 11.6 (SD 2.52)). In this article, the 
ePULab software is described in detail and the results from that experimental 
educational validation study are also presented and analyzed.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cmpb.2014.06.005
PMID: 25015566 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


989. ISA Trans. 2014 Sep;53(5):1501-15. doi: 10.1016/j.isatra.2014.06.007. Epub 2014 
Jul 9.

A swarm intelligence-based tuning method for the Sliding Mode Generalized 
Predictive Control.

Oliveira JB(1), Boaventura-Cunha J(2), Moura Oliveira PB(3), Freire H(4).

Author information:
(1)INESC TEC - INESC Technology and Science (formerly INESC Porto, UTAD pole) 
Department of Engineering, School of Sciences and Technology 5001-811 Vila Real, 
Portugal. Electronic address: josenalde@eaj.ufrn.br.
(2)INESC TEC - INESC Technology and Science (formerly INESC Porto, UTAD pole) 
Department of Engineering, School of Sciences and Technology 5001-811 Vila Real, 
Portugal. Electronic address: jboavent@utad.pt.
(3)INESC TEC - INESC Technology and Science (formerly INESC Porto, UTAD pole) 
Department of Engineering, School of Sciences and Technology 5001-811 Vila Real, 
Portugal. Electronic address: oliveira@utad.pt.
(4)INESC TEC - INESC Technology and Science (formerly INESC Porto, UTAD pole) 
Department of Engineering, School of Sciences and Technology 5001-811 Vila Real, 
Portugal. Electronic address: freireh@gmail.com.

This work presents an automatic tuning method for the discontinuous component of 
the Sliding Mode Generalized Predictive Controller (SMGPC) subject to 
constraints. The strategy employs Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO) to minimize 
a second aggregated cost function. The continuous component is obtained by the 
standard procedure, by Quadratic Programming (QP), thus yielding an online dual 
optimization scheme. Simulations and performance indexes for common process 
models in industry, such as nonminimum phase and time delayed systems, result in 
a better performance, improving robustness and tracking accuracy.

Copyright © 2014 ISA. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.isatra.2014.06.007
PMID: 25016307


990. Psychoneuroendocrinology. 2014 Oct;48:162-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.psyneuen.2014.06.013. Epub 2014 Jun 24.

The implicit affiliation motive moderates cortisol responses to acute 
psychosocial stress in high school students.

Wegner M(1), Schüler J(2), Budde H(3).

Author information:
(1)University of Bern, Institute of Sport Science, Switzerland. Electronic 
address: mirko.wegner@ispw.unibe.ch.
(2)University of Bern, Institute of Sport Science, Switzerland.
(3)Medical School Hamburg, Faculty of Human Sciences, Department of Pedagogy, 
Germany; Reykjavik University, School of Science and Engineering, Department of 
Sport Science, Iceland. Electronic address: 
henning.budde@medicalschool-hamburg.de.

It has been previously shown that the implicit affiliation motive - the need to 
establish and maintain friendly relationships with others - leads to chronic 
health benefits. The underlying assumption for the present research was that the 
implicit affiliation motive also moderates the salivary cortisol response to 
acute psychological stress when some aspects of social evaluation and 
uncontrollability are involved. By contrast we did not expect similar effects in 
response to exercise as a physical stressor. Fifty-nine high school students 
aged M=14.8 years were randomly assigned to a psychosocial stress (publishing 
the results of an intelligence test performed), a physical stress (exercise 
intensity of 65-75% of HRmax), and a control condition (normal school lesson) 
each lasting 15min. Participants' affiliation motives were assessed using the 
Operant Motive Test and salivary cortisol samples were taken pre and post 
stressor. We found that the strength of the affiliation motive negatively 
predicted cortisol reactions to acute psychosocial but not to physical stress 
when compared to a control group. The results suggest that the affiliation 
motive buffers the effect of acute psychosocial stress on the HPA axis.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psyneuen.2014.06.013
PMID: 25016451 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


991. Dev Psychopathol. 2015 Feb;27(1):181-8. doi: 10.1017/S0954579414000662. Epub 
2014 Jul 14.

Small for gestational age and poor fluid intelligence in childhood predict 
externalizing behaviors among young adults born at extremely low birth weight.

Lahat A(1), Van Lieshout RJ(1), Saigal S(1), Boyle MH(1), Schmidt LA(1).

Author information:
(1)McMaster University.

Although infants born at extremely low birth weight (ELBW; birth weight < 1000 
g) are at increased risk for developing later psychopathology, the mechanisms 
contributing to this association are largely unknown. In the present study, we 
examined a putative cognitive link to psychopathology in a cohort of ELBW 
survivors. These individuals were followed up prospectively at age 8 and again 
at ages 22-26. At 8 years, participants completed measures of fluid and general 
intelligence. As young adults, a subset of ELBW survivors free of major 
neurosensory impairments provided self-reports of personality characteristics 
related to psychopathology. Data from 66 participants indicated that, as 
predicted, the association between ELBW and externalizing behaviors was 
moderated by fluid intelligence. Specifically, ELBW individuals with poor fluid 
intelligence who were born small for gestational age (birth weight < 10th 
percentile for gestational age) showed the highest level of externalizing 
behaviors. These findings provide support for a cumulative risk model and 
suggest that fluid intelligence might be a cognitive mechanism contributing to 
the development of psychopathology among nonimpaired individuals who were born 
at ELBW and small for gestational age.

DOI: 10.1017/S0954579414000662
PMID: 25017176 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


992. Curr Biol. 2014 Jul 21;24(14):1649-1652. doi: 10.1016/j.cub.2014.05.076. Epub 
2014 Jul 10.

Chimpanzee intelligence is heritable.

Hopkins WD(1), Russell JL(2), Schaeffer J(3).

Author information:
(1)Neuroscience Institute and Language Research Center, Georgia State 
University, Atlanta, Georgia 30302, USA; Division of Developmental and Cognitive 
Neuroscience, Yerkes National Primate Research Center, Atlanta, Georgia 30322, 
USA. Electronic address: whopkins4@gsu.edu.
(2)Neuroscience Institute and Language Research Center, Georgia State 
University, Atlanta, Georgia 30302, USA; Division of Developmental and Cognitive 
Neuroscience, Yerkes National Primate Research Center, Atlanta, Georgia 30322, 
USA.
(3)Neuroscience Institute and Language Research Center, Georgia State 
University, Atlanta, Georgia 30302, USA.

The role that genes play in human intelligence or IQ has remained a point of 
significant scientific debate dating back to the time of Galton [1]. It has now 
become increasingly clear that IQ is heritable in humans, but these effects can 
be modified by nongenetic mechanisms [2-4]. In contrast to human IQ, until 
recently, views of learning and cognition in animals have largely been dominated 
by the behaviorist school of thought, originally championed by Watson [5] and 
Skinner [6]. A large body of accumulated research now demonstrates a variety of 
cognitive abilities in nonhuman animals and challenges traditional behaviorist 
interpretations of performance [7, 8]. This, in turn, has led to a renewed 
interest in the role that social and biological factors might play in explaining 
individual and phylogenetic differences in cognition [9]. Specifically, aside 
from early attempts to selectively breed for learning skills in rodents [10-12], 
studies examining the role that genetic factors might play in individual 
variation in cognitive abilities in nonhuman animals, particularly nonhuman 
primates, are scarce. Here, we utilized a modified Primate Cognitive Test 
Battery [13] in conjunction with quantitative genetic analyses to examine 
whether cognitive performance is heritable in chimpanzees. We found that some 
but not all cognitive traits were significantly heritable in chimpanzees. We 
further found significant genetic correlations between different dimensions of 
cognitive functioning, suggesting that the genes that explain the variability of 
one cognitive trait might also explain that of other cognitive traits.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cub.2014.05.076
PMCID: PMC4108509
PMID: 25017206 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


993. Front Hum Neurosci. 2014 Jun 27;8:410. doi: 10.3389/fnhum.2014.00410. 
eCollection 2014.

The role of the frontal cortex in memory: an investigation of the Von Restorff 
effect.

Elhalal A(1), Davelaar EJ(1), Usher M(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychological Sciences, Birkbeck College, University of London 
London, UK.
(2)School of Psychological Science and Sagol School of Neuroscience, Tel Aviv 
University Tel Aviv, Israel ; Department of Experimental Psychology, University 
of Oxford and Wahadham College, University of Oxford Oxford, UK.

Evidence from neuropsychology and neuroimaging indicate that the pre-frontal 
cortex (PFC) plays an important role in human memory. Although frontal patients 
are able to form new memories, these memories appear qualitatively different 
from those of controls by lacking distinctiveness. Neuroimaging studies of 
memory indicate activation in the PFC under deep encoding conditions, and under 
conditions of semantic elaboration. Based on these results, we hypothesize that 
the PFC enhances memory by extracting differences and commonalities in the 
studied material. To test this hypothesis, we carried out an experimental 
investigation to test the relationship between the PFC-dependent factors and 
semantic factors associated with common and specific features of words. These 
experiments were performed using Free-Recall of word lists with healthy adults, 
exploiting the correlation between PFC function and fluid intelligence. As 
predicted, a correlation was found between fluid intelligence and the 
Von-Restorff effect (better memory for semantic isolates, e.g., isolate "cat" 
within category members of "fruit"). Moreover, memory for the semantic isolate 
was found to depend on the isolate's serial position. The isolate item tends to 
be recalled first, in comparison to non-isolates, suggesting that the process 
interacts with short term memory. These results are captured within a 
computational model of free recall, which includes a PFC mechanism that is 
sensitive to both commonality and distinctiveness, sustaining a trade-off 
between the two.

DOI: 10.3389/fnhum.2014.00410
PMCID: PMC4073090
PMID: 25018721


994. World J Psychiatry. 2014 Jun 22;4(2):42-8. doi: 10.5498/wjp.v4.i2.42.

Cognitive inflexibility in Japanese adolescents and adults with autism spectrum 
disorders.

Yasuda Y(1), Hashimoto R(1), Ohi K(1), Yamamori H(1), Fujimoto M(1), Umeda-Yano 
S(1), Fujino H(1), Takeda M(1).

Author information:
(1)Yuka Yasuda, Kazutaka Ohi, Michiko Fujimoto, Masatoshi Takeda, Department of 
Psychiatry, Osaka University Graduate School of Medicine, Osaka 5650871, Japan.

AIM: To investigate executive function in Japanese adolescents and adults with 
autism spectrum disorders (ASD) compared to Japanese controls.
METHODS: Thirty-three individuals with ASD and 33 controls participated. The ASD 
and control groups' demographic variables were matched for gender (male/female: 
20/13 vs 20/13), age (26.1 ± 11.5 vs 26.8 ± 9.6), years of education (13.2 ± 2.9 
vs 14.2 ± 1.9), full-scale intelligence quotient (IQ) (103.0 ± 16.7 vs 103.7 ± 
14.7), performance IQ (96.2 ± 16.1 vs 97.8 ± 15.0), and verbal IQ (107.9 ± 16.3 
vs 107.7 ± 14.4). Participants performed the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST), 
which assesses the executive processes involved in problem solving and cognitive 
flexibility, and the Continuous Performance Test (CPT), which assesses attention 
and impulsivity. Symptoms were assessed by the Autism-Spectrum Quotient Japanese 
version (AQ-J). First, we compared the scores of the WCST between the groups 
using a Mann-Whitney U-test and conducted an analysis of covariance for the 
variables with the scores of category archives and CPT scores as covariates. 
Second, we analyzed the correlation between the scores of the WCST and the AQ-J 
in the ASD group using Pearson's r.
RESULTS: The total errors (TE) and the percentages of perseverative errors of 
the Milner type (%PEM) and Nelson type (%PEN) among the TE in the ASD group were 
significantly worse compared with the control group (ASD vs Control, 
respectively: TE: 16.0 ± 6.2 vs 12.6 ± 3.5, P = 0.012; %PEM: 11.7 ± 10.7 vs 6.6 
± 8.9, P = 0.037; %PEN: 20.1 ± 14.5 vs 8.7 ± 10.4, P = 0.0011). In contrast, no 
significant difference was observed between the two groups in the scores of 
categories achieved on the WCST or the CPT. An analysis of covariance revealed 
significant differences between the groups in the %PEN scores (P = 0.0062) but 
not in the TE or the %PEM scores. These results suggest that Japanese 
adolescents and adults with ASD have cognitive inflexibility. Furthermore, our 
results suggest that Japanese adolescents and adults with ASD may have 
difficulties using negative feedback because perseverative errors of the Nelson 
type indicate persistence in choosing the incorrect reaction. By contrast, there 
was no significant correlation between the WCST and AQ-J scores.
CONCLUSION: We confirmed the presence of cognitive inflexibility in Japanese 
adolescents and adults with ASD. Our results also indicated that subjects with 
ASD may not use negative feedback effectively.

DOI: 10.5498/wjp.v4.i2.42
PMCID: PMC4087155
PMID: 25019056


995. J Child Adolesc Psychopharmacol. 2014 Sep;24(7):366-73. doi: 
10.1089/cap.2013.0139. Epub 2014 Jul 14.

Looking for childhood-onset schizophrenia: diagnostic algorithms for classifying 
children and adolescents with psychosis.

Greenstein D(1), Kataria R, Gochman P, Dasgupta A, Malley JD, Rapoport J, Gogtay 
N.

Author information:
(1)1 Child Psychiatry Branch, National Institute of Mental Health 
(NIMH)/National Institutes of Health (NIH) , Bethesda, Maryland.

OBJECTIVE: Among children <13 years of age with persistent psychosis and 
contemporaneous decline in functioning, it is often difficult to determine if 
the diagnosis of childhood onset schizophrenia (COS) is warranted. Despite 
decades of experience, we have up to a 44% false positive screening diagnosis 
rate among patients identified as having probable or possible COS; final 
diagnoses are made following inpatient hospitalization and medication washout. 
Because our lengthy medication-free observation is not feasible in clinical 
practice, we constructed diagnostic classifiers using screening data to assist 
clinicians practicing in the community or academic centers.
METHODS: We used cross-validation, logistic regression, receiver operating 
characteristic (ROC) analysis, and random forest to determine the best algorithm 
for classifying COS (n=85) versus histories of psychosis and impaired 
functioning in children and adolescents who, at screening, were considered 
likely to have COS, but who did not meet diagnostic criteria for schizophrenia 
after medication washout and inpatient observation (n=53). We used demographics, 
clinical history measures, intelligence quotient (IQ) and screening rating 
scales, and number of typical and atypical antipsychotic medications as our 
predictors.
RESULTS: Logistic regression models using nine, four, and two predictors 
performed well with positive predictive values>90%, overall accuracy>77%, and 
areas under the curve (AUCs)>86%.
CONCLUSIONS: COS can be distinguished from alternate disorders with psychosis in 
children and adolescents; greater levels of positive and negative symptoms and 
lower levels of depression combine to make COS more likely. We include a 
worksheet so that clinicians in the community and academic centers can predict 
the probability that a young patient may be schizophrenic, using only two 
ratings.

DOI: 10.1089/cap.2013.0139
PMCID: PMC4162429
PMID: 25019955 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


996. Int Psychogeriatr. 2015 Mar;27(3):439-53. doi: 10.1017/S1041610214001197. Epub 
2014 Jul 15.

Serum cholesterol and cognitive functions: the Lothian Birth Cohort 1936.

Corley J(1), Starr JM(2), Deary IJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology,University of Edinburgh,7 George Square,Edinburgh 
EH8 9JZ,UK.
(2)Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology,University of 
Edinburgh,7 George Square,Edinburgh EH8 9JZ,UK.

BACKGROUND: We examined the associations between serum cholesterol measures, 
statin use, and cognitive function measured in childhood and in old age. The 
possibility that lifelong (trait) cognitive ability accounts for any 
cross-sectional associations between cholesterol and cognitive performance in 
older age, seen in observational studies, has not been tested to date.
METHODS: Participants were 1,043 men and women from the Lothian Birth Cohort 
1936 Study, most of whom had participated in a nationwide IQ-type test in 
childhood (Scottish Mental Survey of 1947), and were followed up at about age 70 
years. Serum cholesterol measures included total cholesterol (TC), high-density 
lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C), triglycerides, and cholesterol:HDL cholesterol 
ratio. Cognitive outcome measures were age 70 IQ (using the same test as at age 
11 years), general cognitive ability (g), processing speed, memory, and verbal 
ability.
RESULTS: Higher TC, higher HDL-C, and lower triglycerides were associated with 
higher age 70 cognitive scores in most cognitive domains. These relationships 
were no longer significant after covarying for childhood IQ, with the exception 
a markedly attenuated association between TC and processing speed, and 
triglycerides and age 70 IQ. In the fully adjusted model, all conventionally 
significant (p < 0.05) effects were removed. Childhood IQ predicted statin use 
in old age. Statin users had lower g, processing speed, and verbal ability 
scores at age 70 years after covarying for childhood IQ, but significance was 
lost after adjusting for TC levels.
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that serum cholesterol and cognitive function 
are associated in older age via the lifelong stable trait of intelligence. 
Potential mechanisms, including lifestyle factors, are discussed.

DOI: 10.1017/S1041610214001197
PMID: 25023928 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


997. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2014 Jul 29;111(30):10984-9. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.1406138111. Epub 2014 Jul 14.

Accuracy of forecasts in strategic intelligence.

Mandel DR(1), Barnes A(2).

Author information:
(1)Socio-Cognitive Systems Section, Defence Research and Development Canada, 
Toronto, ON, Canada M3K 2C9; and drmandel66@gmail.com.
(2)Formerly of the Intelligence Assessment Secretariat, Privy Council Office, 
Ottawa, ON, Canada K1A OA3.

Comment in
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2014 Aug 12;111(32):11574-5.

The accuracy of 1,514 strategic intelligence forecasts abstracted from 
intelligence reports was assessed. The results show that both discrimination and 
calibration of forecasts was very good. Discrimination was better for senior 
(versus junior) analysts and for easier (versus harder) forecasts. 
Miscalibration was mainly due to underconfidence such that analysts assigned 
more uncertainty than needed given their high level of discrimination. 
Underconfidence was more pronounced for harder (versus easier) forecasts and for 
forecasts deemed more (versus less) important for policy decision making. 
Despite the observed underconfidence, there was a paucity of forecasts in the 
least informative 0.4-0.6 probability range. Recalibrating the forecasts 
substantially reduced underconfidence. The findings offer cause for tempered 
optimism about the accuracy of strategic intelligence forecasts and indicate 
that intelligence producers aim to promote informativeness while avoiding 
overstatement.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1406138111
PMCID: PMC4121776
PMID: 25024176

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


998. Biomed Res Int. 2014;2014:841798. doi: 10.1155/2014/841798. Epub 2014 Jun 15.

Sexual enhancement products for sale online: raising awareness of the 
psychoactive effects of yohimbine, maca, horny goat weed, and Ginkgo biloba.

Corazza O(1), Martinotti G(2), Santacroce R(3), Chillemi E(2), Di Giannantonio 
M(2), Schifano F(1), Cellek S(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Life and Medical Sciences, University of Hertfordshire, College 
Lane, Hatfield AL10 9AB, UK.
(2)Department of Neuroscience and Imaging, University "G. d'Annunzio", 66100 
Chieti, Italy.
(3)School of Life and Medical Sciences, University of Hertfordshire, College 
Lane, Hatfield AL10 9AB, UK ; Department of Neuroscience and Imaging, University 
"G. d'Annunzio", 66100 Chieti, Italy.
(4)Cranfield University, Bedfordshire MK43 0AL, UK.

INTRODUCTION: The use of unlicensed food and herbal supplements to enhance 
sexual functions is drastically increasing. This phenomenon, combined with the 
availability of these products over the Internet, represents a challenge from a 
clinical and a public health perspective.
METHODS: A comprehensive multilingual assessment of websites, drug fora, and 
other online resources was carried out between February and July 2013 with 
exploratory qualitative searches including 203 websites. Additional searches 
were conducted using the Global Public Health Intelligence Network (GPHIN). Once 
the active constitutes of the products were identified, a comprehensive 
literature search was carried out using PsycInfo and PubMed.
RESULTS: The most common sexual enhancement products available on the Internet 
were identified. Their active ingredients included yohimbine, maca, horny goat 
weed and Ginkgo biloba. These four substances were reported with the occurrence 
of adverse events and the induction of psychological symptoms, such as mood 
changes, anxiety, and hallucinations as well as addictive behaviours.
CONCLUSIONS: Uncontrolled availability of sexual enhancement products that 
contain potentially harmful substances is a major public health concern. The 
possible impact on population health, particularly among subjects with 
psychiatric disorders, usually at risk for sexual dysfunction, may be 
significant. This new trend needs to be extensively studied and monitored.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/841798
PMCID: PMC4082836
PMID: 25025070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


999. PLoS One. 2014 Jul 15;9(7):e100855. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0100855. 
eCollection 2014.

OMIT: dynamic, semi-automated ontology development for the microRNA domain.

Huang J(1), Dang J(2), Borchert GM(3), Eilbeck K(4), Zhang H(1), Xiong M(1), 
Jiang W(1), Wu H(1), Blake JA(5), Natale DA(6), Tan M(7).

Author information:
(1)School of Computing, University of South Alabama, Mobile, Alabama, United 
States of America.
(2)Corporate Technology, Siemens Corporation, Princeton, New Jersey, United 
States of America.
(3)Department of Biology, University of South Alabama, Mobile, Alabama, United 
States of America.
(4)School of Medicine, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah, United States 
of America.
(5)The Jackson Laboratory, Bar Harbor, Maine, United States of America.
(6)Georgetown University Medical Center, Washington, DC, United States of 
America.
(7)Mitchell Cancer Institute, University of South Alabama, Mobile, Alabama, 
United States of America.

As a special class of short non-coding RNAs, microRNAs (a.k.a. miRNAs or miRs) 
have been reported to perform important roles in various biological processes by 
regulating respective target genes. However, significant barriers exist during 
biologists' conventional miR knowledge discovery. Emerging semantic 
technologies, which are based upon domain ontologies, can render critical 
assistance to this problem. Our previous research has investigated the 
construction of a miR ontology, named Ontology for MIcroRNA Target Prediction 
(OMIT), the very first of its kind that formally encodes miR domain knowledge. 
Although it is unavoidable to have a manual component contributed by domain 
experts when building ontologies, many challenges have been identified for a 
completely manual development process. The most significant issue is that a 
manual development process is very labor-intensive and thus extremely expensive. 
Therefore, we propose in this paper an innovative ontology development 
methodology. Our contributions can be summarized as: (i) We have continued the 
development and critical improvement of OMIT, solidly based on our previous 
research outcomes. (ii) We have explored effective and efficient algorithms with 
which the ontology development can be seamlessly combined with machine 
intelligence and be accomplished in a semi-automated manner, thus significantly 
reducing large amounts of human efforts. A set of experiments have been 
conducted to thoroughly evaluate our proposed methodology.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0100855
PMCID: PMC4099014
PMID: 25025130 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: One of the authors is 
employed by Siemens Corporation. This does not alter the authors' adherence to 
PLOS ONE policies on sharing data and materials.


1000. Neurol Sci. 2014 Sep;35(9):1349-52. doi: 10.1007/s10072-014-1869-3. Epub 2014 
Jul 16.

Hippocrates: the forefather of neurology.

Breitenfeld T(1), Jurasic MJ, Breitenfeld D.

Author information:
(1)Sestre milosrdnice (Sisters of Charity) Clinical Hospital Centre, University 
Department of Neurology, Vinogradska c. 29, 10 000, Zagreb, Croatia, 
tomislav.breitenfeld@zg.t-com.hr.

Hippocrates is one of the most influential medical doctors of all times. He 
started observing and experimenting in times of mysticism and magic. He carried 
a holistic and humanitarian approach to the patient with examination as the 
principal approach-inspection, palpation and auscultation are still the most 
important tools in diagnosing algorithms of today. He had immense experience 
with the human body most likely due to numerous wound treatments he had 
performed; some even believe he performed autopsies despite the negative trend 
at the time. Hippocrates identified the brain as the analyst of the outside 
world, the interpreter of consciousness and the center of intelligence and 
willpower. Interestingly, Hippocrates was aware of many valid concepts in 
neurology; his treatise On the Sacred Disease was the most important for 
understanding neurology and epilepsy. His other ideas pioneered modern day 
neurology mentioning neurological diseases like apoplexy, spondylitis, 
hemiplegia, and paraplegia. Today, 10 % of neurological Pubmed and 7 % of 
neuroscience Scopus reviews mention Corpus Hippocraticum as one of the sources. 
Therefore, Hippocrates may be considered as the forefather of neurology.

DOI: 10.1007/s10072-014-1869-3
PMID: 25027011 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1001. J Med Syst. 2014 Sep;38(9):110. doi: 10.1007/s10916-014-0110-5. Epub 2014 Jul 
16.

Developing and using expert systems and neural networks in medicine: a review on 
benefits and challenges.

Sheikhtaheri A(1), Sadoughi F, Hashemi Dehaghi Z.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Information Management, School of Allied Medical 
Sciences, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Enghelab Sq., Tehran, Islamic 
Republic of Iran, a_shtaheri@razi.tums.ac.ir.

Complicacy of clinical decisions justifies utilization of information systems 
such as artificial intelligence (e.g. expert systems and neural networks) to 
achieve better decisions, however, application of these systems in the medical 
domain faces some challenges. We aimed at to review the applications of these 
systems in the medical domain and discuss about such challenges. Following a 
brief introduction of expert systems and neural networks by representing few 
examples, the challenges of these systems in the medical domain are discussed. 
We found that the applications of expert systems and artificial neural networks 
have been increased in the medical domain. These systems have shown many 
advantages such as utilization of experts' knowledge, gaining rare knowledge, 
more time for assessment of the decision, more consistent decisions, and shorter 
decision-making process. In spite of all these advantages, there are challenges 
ahead of developing and using such systems including maintenance, required 
experts, inputting patients' data into the system, problems for knowledge 
acquisition, problems in modeling medical knowledge, evaluation and validation 
of system performance, wrong recommendations and responsibility, limited domains 
of such systems and necessity of integrating such systems into the routine work 
flows. We concluded that expert systems and neural networks can be successfully 
used in medicine; however, there are many concerns and questions to be answered 
through future studies and discussions.

DOI: 10.1007/s10916-014-0110-5
PMID: 25027017 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1002. Sci Rep. 2014 Jul 16;4:5700. doi: 10.1038/srep05700.

Neuroanatomical differences between men and women in help-seeking coping 
strategy.

Li HJ(1), Sun JZ(1), Zhang QL(2), Wei DT(2), Li WF(2), Jackson T(2), Hitchman 
G(2), Qiu J(2).

Author information:
(1)1] Key Laboratory of Cognition and Personality (SWU), Ministry of Education, 
Chongqing 400715, China [2] Faculty of Psychology, Southwest University, 
Chongqing 400715, China [3].
(2)1] Key Laboratory of Cognition and Personality (SWU), Ministry of Education, 
Chongqing 400715, China [2] Faculty of Psychology, Southwest University, 
Chongqing 400715, China.

Help seeking (HS) is a core coping strategy that is directed towards obtaining 
support, advice, or assistance as means of managing stress. Women have been 
found to use more HS than men. Neural correlates of sex differences have also 
been reported in prefrontal-limbic system (PLS) regions that are linked to 
stress and coping, yet structural differences between men and women relating to 
HS in the PLS are still unknown. Thus, the association between gray matter 
volume (GMV) and HS was investigated using voxel-based morphometry (VBM) in a 
large healthy sample (126 men and 156 women). Results indicated women reported 
more HS than men did. VBM results showed that the relation between HS scores and 
GMV differed between men and women in regions of the bilateral orbitofrontal 
cortex extending to the subgenual anterior cingulate cortex(OFC/sgACC). Among 
women, higher HS scores were associated with smaller GMV in these areas while a 
positive correlation between GMV and HS scores was observed among men. These 
results remained significant after controlling for general intelligence, stress, 
anxiety and depression. Thus, this study suggested that structural differences 
between men and women are correlated to characteristic brain regions known to be 
involved in the PLS which is considered critical in stress regulation.

DOI: 10.1038/srep05700
PMCID: PMC4099976
PMID: 25027617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1003. Braz J Psychiatry. 2014 Oct-Dec;36(4):313-21. doi: 10.1590/1516-4446-2013-1201. 
Epub 2014 Jul 16.

ADHD inattentive symptoms mediate the relationship between intelligence and 
academic performance in children aged 6-14.

Costa Dde S(1), Paula JJ(1), Alvim-Soares Júnior AM(1), Diniz BS(1), 
Romano-Silva MA(1), Malloy-Diniz LF(1), Miranda DM(1).

Author information:
(1)National Science and Technology Institute for Molecular Medicine (INCT-MM), 
School of Medicine, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais (UFMG), Belo Horizonte, 
MG, Brazil.

OBJECTIVE: Fluid intelligence and the behavioral problems of 
attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) are related to academic 
performance, but how this association occurs is unclear. This study aimed to 
assess mediation and moderation models that test possible pathways of influence 
between these factors.
METHODS: Sixty-two children with ADHD and 33 age-matched, typically developing 
students were evaluated with Raven's Colored Progressive Matrices and the 
spelling and arithmetic subtests of the Brazilian School Achievement Test. 
Dimensional ADHD symptomatology was reported by parents.
RESULTS: Our findings suggest that fluid intelligence has a significant impact 
on academic tests through inattention. The inattentive dimension was the 
principal behavioral source of influence, also accounting for the association of 
hyperactive-impulsive manifestations with school achievement. This 
cognitive-to-behavioral influence path seems to be independent of diagnosis 
related group, and gender, but lower socioeconomic status might increase its 
strength.
CONCLUSION: Fluid intelligence is a relevant factor in the influence of ADHD 
behavioral symptoms on academic performance, but its impact is indirect. 
Therefore, early identification of both fluid intelligence and inattentive 
symptoms is of the utmost importance to prevent impaired academic performance 
and future difficulties in functioning.

DOI: 10.1590/1516-4446-2013-1201
PMID: 25028778 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1004. Neuropediatrics. 2014 Dec;45(6):341-5. doi: 10.1055/s-0034-1382824. Epub 2014 
Jul 16.

Activities of daily living in children with hemiparesis: influence of cognitive 
abilities and motor competence.

Adler C(1), Rauchenzauner M(2), Staudt M(1), Berweck S(1).

Author information:
(1)Clinic for Neuropediatrics and Neurorehabilitation, Epilepsy Center for 
Children and Adolescents, Schön Klinik Vogtareuth, Germany.
(2)Department of Neuropediatrics, St. Vinzenz Krankenhaus, Zams, Austria.

PURPOSE: The aim of the article is to investigate whether motor competence and 
cognitive abilities influence the quality of performance of activities of daily 
living (ADL) in children with hemiparesis. Patients and
METHODS: A total of 20 children with hemiparesis (age, 6-12 years; 11 
congenital, 9 acquired during childhood) were studied. Motor competence was 
assessed with the Assisting Hand Assessment, cognitive abilities with the German 
version of the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children IV, and the quality of 
ADL performance with the Assessment of Motor and Process Skills (AMPS).
RESULTS: The motor skills scale of the AMPS correlated with motor competence, 
and the process skills scale of the AMPS correlated with cognitive abilities.
CONCLUSION: The quality of ADL performance is influenced not only by motor 
competence but also by the cognitive abilities of a hemiparetic child. This 
suggests that, in addition to motor-oriented training programs, an optimal 
therapy for hemiparetic children should also consider cognitive approaches.

Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0034-1382824
PMID: 25029016 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1005. IEEE J Biomed Health Inform. 2014 Nov;18(6):1750-6. doi: 
10.1109/JBHI.2014.2337752. Epub 2014 Jul 10.

A machine learning system to improve heart failure patient assistance.

Guidi G, Pettenati MC, Melillo P, Iadanza E.

In this paper, we present a clinical decision support system (CDSS) for the 
analysis of heart failure (HF) patients, providing various outputs such as an HF 
severity evaluation, HF-type prediction, as well as a management interface that 
compares the different patients' follow-ups. The whole system is composed of a 
part of intelligent core and of an HF special-purpose management tool also 
providing the function to act as interface for the artificial intelligence 
training and use. To implement the smart intelligent functions, we adopted a 
machine learning approach. In this paper, we compare the performance of a neural 
network (NN), a support vector machine, a system with fuzzy rules genetically 
produced, and a classification and regression tree and its direct evolution, 
which is the random forest, in analyzing our database. Best performances in both 
HF severity evaluation and HF-type prediction functions are obtained by using 
the random forest algorithm. The management tool allows the cardiologist to 
populate a "supervised database" suitable for machine learning during his or her 
regular outpatient consultations. The idea comes from the fact that in 
literature there are a few databases of this type, and they are not scalable to 
our case.

DOI: 10.1109/JBHI.2014.2337752
PMID: 25029521 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1006. Hum Factors. 2014 Jun;56(4):737-51. doi: 10.1177/0018720813508777.

Catastrophe models for cognitive workload and fatigue in a vigilance dual task.

Guastello SJ, Malon M, Timm P, Weinberger K, Gorin H, Fabisch M, Poston K.

OBJECTIVE: This study investigated two cusp catastrophe models for cognitive 
workload and fatigue for a vigilance dual task, the role of emotional 
intelligence and frustration in the performance dynamics, and the dynamics for 
individuals and teams of two participants.
BACKGROUND: The effects of workload, fatigue, practice, and time on a specific 
task can be separated with the two models and an appropriate experimental 
design. Group dynamics add further complications to the understanding of 
workload and fatigue effects for teams.
METHOD: In this experiment, 141 undergraduates responded to target stimuli that 
appeared on a simulated security camera display at three rates of speed while 
completing a jigsaw puzzle. Participants worked alone or in pairs and completed 
additional measurements prior to or after the main tasks.
RESULTS: The workload cusp verified the expected effects of speed and 
frustration on change in performance. The fatigue cusp showed that positive and 
negative changes in performance were greater if more work on the secondary task 
was completed and whether the participants who started with the fast vigilance 
condition demonstrated less fatigue.
CONCLUSION: The results supported the efficacy of the cusp models and suggested, 
furthermore, that training modules that varied speed of presentation could 
buffer the effects of fatigue.
APPLICATION: The cusp models can be used to analyze virtually any cognitively 
demanding task set. The particular results generalize to vigilance tasks, 
although a wider range of conditions within vigilance tasks needs to be 
investigated further.

DOI: 10.1177/0018720813508777
PMID: 25029898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1007. Rev Neurol. 2014 Aug 1;59(3):97-105.

[Empathy and moral judgements in the elderly population].

[Article in Spanish; Abstract available in Spanish from the publisher]

Ortega H(1), Cacho R, López-Goñi JJ, Tirapu-Ustárroz J.

Author information:
(1)Residencia Ntra. Sra. de Gracia, Tudela, Espana.

INTRODUCTION: Social cognition refers to mental processes that operate in 
situations of social interaction and facilitate adjustment and functioning in 
such scenarios.
AIM: To study the empathic response in two groups of older people and their 
relationship to emotional intelligence and moral judgment.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: We enrolled 60 subjects divided into two groups of 30 
subjects each completed a battery of tests: TMMS-24, DEX, IRI and moral 
dilemmas. RESULTS. In the dimension of the IRI perspective taking older group 
scored significantly less than the middle age group (U = 279; p < 0.05). In all 
other variables, no statistically significant differences were found.
CONCLUSIONS: The results show the absence of a generalized deficit in social 
cognition in the elderly sample evaluated. However, differences were observed 
based on age on empathy and executive performance: over time a progressive 
impairment in theory of mind and a decline in the general empathic capacity 
occur. With regard to emotional intelligence, the elderly evaluated show a 
correct perception and understanding of their emotions even report a poorer 
ability to manage and regulate their emotions.

Publisher: TITLE: Empatia y juicios morales en poblacion anciana.
Introduccion. La cognicion social se refiere a los procesos mentales que operan 
en situaciones de interaccion social y facilitan el ajuste y el funcionamiento 
en tales escenarios. Objetivo. Estudiar la respuesta empatica en dos grupos de 
personas mayores y su relacion con la inteligencia emocional y el juicio moral. 
Sujetos y metodos. Participaron 60 sujetos divididos en dos grupos de 30 cada 
uno, que cumplimentaron una bateria de pruebas: Trait Meta-Mood Scale-24, 
cuestionario disejecutivo, indice de reactividad interpersonal (IRI) y dilemas 
morales. Resultados. En la dimension de toma de perspectiva del IRI, el grupo de 
edad avanzada puntuo significativamente menos que el grupo de mediana edad (U = 
279; p < 0,05). En el resto de variables no se encontraron diferencias 
estadisticamente significativas. Conclusiones. Los resultados muestran la 
ausencia de un deficit generalizado en la cognicion social en la muestra de 
ancianos evaluada. Sin embargo, se aprecian diferencias en funcion de la edad en 
la empatia y en el rendimiento ejecutivo: con el paso del tiempo tiene lugar un 
deterioro progresivo en la teoria de la mente y un declive en la capacidad 
empatica general. Con respecto a la inteligencia emocional, los ancianos 
evaluados manifiestan una adecuada percepcion y comprension de sus emociones, 
aunque informan de una peor capacidad para manejar y regular sus afectos.

PMID: 25030068 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1008. J R Soc Interface. 2014 Sep 6;11(98):20140641. doi: 10.1098/rsif.2014.0641.

Ants work harder during consensus decision-making in small groups.

Cronin AL(1), Stumpe MC(2).

Author information:
(1)United Graduate School of Agricultural Sciences, Iwate University, 3-18-8 
Ueda, Morioka 020-8550, Japan adamcronin@gmail.com.
(2)AnTracks Computer Vision Systems, Mountain View, CA, USA.

Individuals derive many benefits from being social, one of which is improved 
accuracy of decision-making, the so-called 'wisdom of the crowds' effect. This 
advantage arises because larger groups can pool information from more 
individuals. At present, limited empirical data indicate that larger groups 
outperform smaller ones during consensus decision-making in human and non-human 
animals. Inaccurate decisions can lead to significant costs, and we might 
therefore expect individuals in small groups to employ mechanisms to compensate 
for the lack of numbers. Small groups may be able to maintain decision accuracy 
if individuals are better informed than those in larger groups and/or by 
increasing the proportion of the group involved in collective decision-making 
relative to larger groups. In this study, we use interactive computer vision 
software to investigate individual contributions to consensus decision-making 
during house-hunting in different sized groups of the ant Myrmecina nipponica. 
We show that individuals in small colonies invest greater effort in the 
consensus decision process than those in large colonies and should be better 
informed as a result. This may act to ameliorate the limitations of group size, 
but could leave smaller groups more susceptible to additional stresses.

© 2014 The Author(s) Published by the Royal Society. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1098/rsif.2014.0641
PMCID: PMC4233711
PMID: 25030387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1009. Srp Arh Celok Lek. 2014 May-Jun;142(5-6):337-41. doi: 10.2298/sarh1406337j.

L-2-Hydroxyglutaric aciduria: a case report.

Jović NJ, Kosać A, Koprivsek K.

INTRODUCTION: L-2-Hydroxyglutaric aciduria (L-2-HGA) is an autosomal recessive 
neurometabolic disease with a slowly progressive course and characterized by 
increased levels of hydroxyglutaric acid in urine, cerebrospinal fluid and 
plasma. In this condition clinical features mainly consist of mental 
deterioration, ataxia and motor deficits.
CASE OUTLINE: The patient is a 16-year-old girl, the first and only child of 
healthy, non-consanguineous parents of Serbian origin. At the age of 4 years her 
walk became unsteady and ataxic. Other signs of cerebellar involvement were soon 
observed. Head circumference was above two standard deviations (55 cm). Mild 
mental retardation was revealed by formal intelligence testing (IQ 60). MR 
examination of the brain showed confluent subcortical white matter lesions 
spread centripetally, and atrophy of the cerebellar vermis with involvement of 
dentate nuclei, without deep white matter abnormalities. Laboratory 
investigation revealed increased amounts and a very large peak of HGA in urine 
and plasma. Enantiomeric analysis confirmed the L-configuration (> 90%) 
establishing the diagnosis of L-2-HGA. The first epileptic seizure, partial with 
secondary generalization, occurred at age of 8 years. Favorable seizure control 
was achieved. A slow progression of neurological impairment was noted. 
Therapeutic trials with oral coenzyme Q10 and with oral riboflavin showed no 
biochemical and clinical effects. Recently, the diagnosis was proven by the 
presence of a mutation in the L-2-HGA gene.
CONCLUSION: To our knowledge, this is the first report of L-2-HGA in Serbia. 
L-2-HGA must be considered in the differential diagnosis based on specific 
findings in cranial MRI.

DOI: 10.2298/sarh1406337j
PMID: 25033591 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1010. Diabetologia. 2014 Oct;57(10):2208-14. doi: 10.1007/s00125-014-3333-6. Epub 2014 
Jul 18.

Cerebrospinal fluid levels of Alzheimer's disease biomarkers in middle-aged 
patients with type 1 diabetes.

Ouwens DM(1), van Duinkerken E, Schoonenboom SN, Herzfeld de Wiza D, Klein M, 
van Golen L, Pouwels PJ, Barkhof F, Moll AC, Snoek FJ, Teunissen CE, Scheltens 
P, Diamant M.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Clinical Biochemistry and Pathobiochemistry, German Diabetes 
Centre, Auf'm Hennekamp 65, 40225, Düsseldorf, Germany, 
margriet.ouwens@ddz.uni-duesseldorf.de.

AIMS/HYPOTHESIS: Type 1 diabetes is associated with moderate cognitive decline 
and cerebral alterations and may lead to an increased risk of dementia, 
including Alzheimer's disease. This study aimed to investigate the levels of 
risk markers for Alzheimer's disease in middle-aged patients with type 1 
diabetes and controls, and their potential associations with cognitive and 
cerebral measures.
METHODS: Levels of β-amyloid (Aβ) 42, Tau, phosphorylated Tau (pTau), the 
soluble form of low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 1 (sLRP1) and 
macrophage colony-stimulating factor (MCSF) were quantified by ELISA in serum 
and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) collected from 37 patients with type 1 diabetes 
and 15 controls. Associations between biomarkers and determinants of cognitive 
function and white matter integrity were assessed using hierarchical regression 
analysis controlling for age, HbA1c and estimated intelligence quotient (IQ).
RESULTS: CSF levels of pTau, Aβ42 and LRP1 were higher in patients with type 1 
diabetes than in controls (all p < 0.05). There was a trend towards increased 
Tau levels in patients with type 1 diabetes (p = 0.056), while CSF levels of 
MCSF were similar between patients with type 1 diabetes and controls. Regression 
analysis showed that elevated CSF sLRP1 levels were associated with better 
attention (β = 0.518; p = 0.002) and a better speed of information-processing (β 
= 0.368; p = 0.034), as well as increased integrity of the white matter of the 
right inferior fronto-occipital tract (β = 0.395; p = 0.022). Furthermore, 
elevated Tau levels were associated with decreased integrity of the white matter 
of right inferior fronto-occipital tract (β = -0.584; p = 0.002).
CONCLUSIONS/INTERPRETATION: CSF levels of biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease are 
altered in patients with type 1 diabetes compared with controls, but the 
observed profile does not match the profile characterising pre-Alzheimer's 
disease patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s00125-014-3333-6
PMID: 25034377 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1011. Schizophr Res. 2014 Sep;158(1-3):126-33. doi: 10.1016/j.schres.2014.06.038. Epub 
2014 Jul 15.

A longitudinal study on the relationship between duration of untreated psychosis 
and executive function in early-onset first-episode psychosis.

Fraguas D(1), Merchán-Naranjo J(2), del Rey-Mejías Á(2), Castro-Fornieles J(3), 
González-Pinto A(4), Rapado-Castro M(5), Pina-Camacho L(6), Díaz-Caneja CM(2), 
Graell M(7), Otero S(8), Baeza I(3), Moreno C(2), Martínez-Cengotitabengoa M(9), 
Rodríguez-Toscano E(2), Arango C(2), Parellada M(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Hospital General Universitario 
Gregorio Marañón, CIBERSAM, IiSGM, School of Medicine, Universidad Complutense, 
Madrid, Spain. Electronic address: david.fraguas@cibersam.es.
(2)Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Hospital General Universitario 
Gregorio Marañón, CIBERSAM, IiSGM, School of Medicine, Universidad Complutense, 
Madrid, Spain.
(3)Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry and Psychology, Institut Clinic 
of Neurosciences, IDIBAPS, SGR-1119, Hospital Clínic (Barcelona). Department of 
Psychiatry and Psychobiology, University of Barcelona, CIBERSAM, Spain.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, Hospital Universitario de Alava (Santiago), 
University of the Basque Country EHU/UPV Vitoria, CIBERSAM, Spain.
(5)Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Hospital General Universitario 
Gregorio Marañón, CIBERSAM, IiSGM, School of Medicine, Universidad Complutense, 
Madrid, Spain; Orygen Youth Health Research Centre, Centre for Youth Mental 
Health, The University of Melbourne, Victoria, Australia; Melbourne 
Neuropsychiatry Centre, The University of Melbourne, Parkville, Australia.
(6)Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Hospital General Universitario 
Gregorio Marañón, CIBERSAM, IiSGM, School of Medicine, Universidad Complutense, 
Madrid, Spain; Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Institute of 
Psychiatry, King's College London, London, UK.
(7)Section of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry and Psychology, Hospital Infantil 
Universitario Niño Jesus, CIBERSAM, Madrid, Spain.
(8)Child Psychiatry Unit, Hospital Universitario Marqués de Valdecilla, 
CIBERSAM, Santander, Spain.
(9)Department of Psychiatry, Hospital Universitario de Alava (Santiago), 
University of the Basque Country EHU/UPV Vitoria, CIBERSAM, Spain; National 
Distance Education University (UNED), Spain.

BACKGROUND: The relationship between duration of untreated psychosis (DUP) and 
executive function (EF) in patients with first-episode psychosis (FEP) is 
controversial. We aim to assess the influence of DUP on changes in EF over a 
2-year period in subjects with early-onset FEP (first psychotic symptom before 
age 18) and less than 6 months of positive symptoms.
METHODS: A total of 66 subjects were included in the study (19 females [28.8%], 
mean age 16.2 ± 1.6 years). The influence of DUP on changes in EF over the 
2-year follow-up (expressed as a composite score of 5 cognitive abilities: 
attention, working memory, cognitive flexibility, response inhibition, and 
problem solving) was estimated using a multivariate linear regression model 
after removing the effect of intelligence quotient and controlling for age, 
gender, diagnosis, premorbid adjustment, severity of positive and negative 
symptoms at baseline, global functioning at baseline, and mean daily 
antipsychotic dosage during follow-up.
RESULTS: Mean DUP was 65.0 ± 6.9 days (95% confidence interval [CI], 51.2, 
78.8). Median DUP was 47.5 days (range 2-180 days). Negative symptoms at 
baseline was the only variable significantly associated with EF at baseline 
(10.9% of explained variance [e.v. 10.9%], p=0.007). Only shorter DUP (e.v. 
8.7%, p=0.013) and greater severity of baseline negative symptoms (e.v. 10.0%, 
p=0.008) were significantly associated with greater improvement in EF.
CONCLUSIONS: In early-onset FEP, shorter DUP was associated with greater 
improvement in EF over a 2-year follow-up period.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.schres.2014.06.038
PMID: 25034759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1012. Psychiatriki. 2014 Apr-Jun;25(2):139-50.

[Behavioral disorders and substance abuse in adolescents with mental 
retardation].

[Article in Greek, Modern]

Papachristou E(1), Anagnostopoulos D(2).

Author information:
(1)Center for Health Services Research, Medical School, University of Athens.
(2)Community Mental Health Centre Byron-Kessariani, A΄ Psychiatric Department, 
University of Athens, Eginition Hospital, Athens, Greece.

The percentage of people with mental retardation in the general population is 
estimated at about 2.3%, with adolescence (15-20 years) constituting the 
development period during which a peak in rates of mental retardation is 
observed. The increased prevalence of adolescence may be explained from the fact 
that the specified requirements of the school initially, and society later, 
inevitably lead to comparative evaluation of the teen with mental retardation in 
relation to peers, thus making mental retardation more apparent. Adolescents 
with mental retardation face a number of physical and psychological needs which 
are not often distinguishable and as a consequence undergo the deterioration of 
their already burdened quality of life. In particular, mental health problems 
occur 3 to 4 times more often in adolescents with mental retardation compared 
with adolescents of the general population. This review presents the most recent 
epidemiological findings regarding the correlation between behavioral disorders, 
substance use and the possible comorbidity in adolescents with intellectual 
disability, both at community level and residential care level. Epidemiological 
data indicate that behavioral disorders are among the most common types of 
psychopathology in mentally retarded adolescents with the severity and symptoms 
varying depending on the personal characteristics of each adolescent. Regarding 
substance use, the available data show that the rates of substance use (alcohol, 
smoking, illicit drugs) are lower in this specific population group but the 
differences over the last years tend to be eliminated. Finally, according to the 
few surveys that were examined referring to the comorbidity of behavioral 
disorders and substance use in adolescents with intellectual disability, the 
results were contradictory. Specifically, while behavioral disorders continued 
to be one of the most common types of psychopathology, the related substances 
disorders indicated lower rates compared to normal intelligence adolescents with 
behavioral disorders. Risk factors that increase the chances of developing 
either simple or more complicated types of psychopathology in adolescents with 
mental retardation have been found to be based on individual, family and social 
levels. On the other hand, the individual characteristics of adolescents 
(intellectual level, attention capacity, understandable linguistic expression, 
overall progress until adolescence), the existence of a supportive family 
environment and the presence of social support and awareness through the 
creation of special counseling, education and medical services, are the most 
important protective factors which contribute to the prevention of several forms 
of psychopathology in adolescents with mental retardation. For the writing of 
the literature review, the following electronic databases were used: PubMed, 
Scopus, Psycinfo, Cochrane Library, Web of Science and Google Scholar. The key 
words used were: Intellectual Disability, Behavioral disorders, Adolescents, 
Mental Retardation, Learning disabilities, Developmental Disabilities, 
Disruptive behaviour disorders, Conduct disorder, Substance Abuse, Substance 
Misuse, Oppositional defiant disorder, Alcohol and illicit drug use, Smoking 
Use, Young people, Teenagers, Youths.

PMID: 25035183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1013. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2014 Aug 1;89(5):1060-1068. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijrobp.2014.04.053. Epub 2014 Jul 8.

Clinical outcomes and late endocrine, neurocognitive, and visual profiles of 
proton radiation for pediatric low-grade gliomas.

Greenberger BA(1), Pulsifer MB(2), Ebb DH(3), MacDonald SM(4), Jones RM(5), 
Butler WE(6), Huang MS(3), Marcus KJ(7), Oberg JA(8), Tarbell NJ(9), Yock 
TI(10).

Author information:
(1)Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts.
(4)Department of Radiation Oncology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts.
(5)Department of Pediatrics, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts; Department of Neurology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts.
(6)Department of Neurosurgery, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts.
(7)Department of Radiation Oncology, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts.
(8)Department of Pediatrics, Columbia University College of Physicians and 
Surgeons, New York, New York.
(9)Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts; Department of Radiation 
Oncology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts.
(10)Department of Radiation Oncology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts. Electronic address: tyock@partners.org.

PURPOSE/OBJECTIVE(S): Primary low-grade gliomas are common brain tumors of 
childhood, many of which require radiation therapy (RT) as definitive treatment. 
Increased conformality of RT could decrease the incidence and severity of late 
effects. We report our experience with 32 pediatric patients treated with proton 
RT.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: Thirty-two pediatric patients with low-grade gliomas of 
the brain or spinal cord were treated with proton RT from 1995 to 2007. Sixteen 
patients received at least 1 regimen of chemotherapy before definitive RT. The 
median radiation dose was 52.2 GyRBE (48.6-54 GyRBE).
RESULTS: The median age at treatment was 11.0 years (range, 2.7-21.5 years), 
with a median follow-up time of 7.6 years (range, 3.2-18.2 years). The 6-year 
and 8-year rates of progression-free survival were 89.7% and 82.8%, 
respectively, with an 8-year overall survival of 100%. For the subset of 
patients who received serial neurocognitive testing, there were no significant 
declines in Full-Scale Intelligence Quotient (P=.80), with a median 
neurocognitive testing interval of 4.5 years (range, 1.2-8.1 years) from 
baseline to follow-up, but subgroup analysis indicated some significant decline 
in neurocognitive outcomes for young children (<7 years) and those with 
significant dose to the left temporal lobe/hippocampus. The incidence of 
endocrinopathy correlated with a mean dose of ≥40 GyRBE to the hypothalamus, 
pituitary, or optic chiasm. Stabilization or improvement of visual acuity was 
achieved in 83.3% of patients at risk for radiation-induced injury to the optic 
pathways.
CONCLUSIONS: This report of late effects in children with low-grade gliomas 
after proton RT is encouraging. Proton RT appears to be associated with good 
clinical outcome, especially when the tumor location allows for increased 
sparing of the left temporal lobe, hippocampus, and hypothalamic-pituitary axis.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijrobp.2014.04.053
PMID: 25035209 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1014. Indian J Psychol Med. 2014 Jul;36(3):255-9. doi: 10.4103/0253-7176.135373.

Cognitive Deficits in HIV Infected Children.

Ravindran OS(1), Rani MP(2), Priya G(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Sri Ramachandra University, Porur, Chennai, Tamil 
Nadu, India.
(2)Department of Clinical Psychology, Sri Ramachandra University, Porur, 
Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Children infected with HIV are at risk for 
significant neurological and neuropsychological problems. This study is aimed at 
identifying cognitive deficits in HIV-infected children and to compare them with 
equal number of normal controls.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Twenty children with HIV infection who are currently on 
antiretroviral therapy were recruited. They were assessed for their intelligence 
using Malin's Intelligence Scale for Indian Children and also evaluated for 
their cognitive abilities with a comprehensive neuropsychological battery. They 
were matched with equal number of normal controls.
RESULTS: HIV-infected children have shown substantial impairments in the domains 
of attention, language, verbal learning and memory, visuomotor functions, fine 
motor performance, and executive functions.
CONCLUSION: HIV-infected children have average intelligence, but they performed 
poorly on several neuropsychological measures.

DOI: 10.4103/0253-7176.135373
PMCID: PMC4100409
PMID: 25035547

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None.


1015. Open Med Inform J. 2014 Jun 13;8:1-19. doi: 10.2174/1874431101408010001. 
eCollection 2014.

Intelligent approach for analysis of respiratory signals and oxygen saturation 
in the sleep apnea/hypopnea syndrome.

Moret-Bonillo V(1), Alvarez-Estévez D(2), Fernández-Leal A(2), Hernández-Pereira 
E(2).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory for Research and Development in Artificial Intelligence (LIDIA), 
University of La Coruña, 15071. Spain ; Research Centre on Information and 
Communication Technologies (CITIC), University of La Coruña, 15071. Spain.
(2)Laboratory for Research and Development in Artificial Intelligence (LIDIA), 
University of La Coruña, 15071. Spain.

This work deals with the development of an intelligent approach for clinical 
decision making in the diagnosis of the Sleep Apnea/Hypopnea Syndrome, SAHS, 
from the analysis of respiratory signals and oxygen saturation in arterial 
blood, SaO2. In order to accomplish the task the proposed approach makes use of 
different artificial intelligence techniques and reasoning processes being able 
to deal with imprecise data. These reasoning processes are based on fuzzy logic 
and on temporal analysis of the information. The developed approach also takes 
into account the possibility of artifacts in the monitored signals. Detection 
and characterization of signal artifacts allows detection of false positives. 
Identification of relevant diagnostic patterns and temporal correlation of 
events is performed through the implementation of temporal constraints.

DOI: 10.2174/1874431101408010001
PMCID: PMC4101190
PMID: 25035712


1016. Res Dev Disabil. 2014 Nov;35(11):2603-13. doi: 10.1016/j.ridd.2014.06.022. Epub 
2014 Jul 15.

Numerical magnitude processing deficits in children with mathematical 
difficulties are independent of intelligence.

Brankaer C(1), Ghesquière P(2), De Smedt B(3).

Author information:
(1)Parenting and Special Education Research Unit, Faculty of Psychology and 
Educational Sciences, KU Leuven, Belgium. Electronic address: 
Carmen.Brankaer@ppw.kuleuven.be.
(2)Parenting and Special Education Research Unit, Faculty of Psychology and 
Educational Sciences, KU Leuven, Belgium.
(3)Parenting and Special Education Research Unit, Faculty of Psychology and 
Educational Sciences, KU Leuven, Belgium. Electronic address: 
Bert.DeSmedt@ppw.kuleuven.be.

Developmental dyscalculia (DD) is thought to arise from difficulties in the 
ability to process numerical magnitudes. Most research relied on IQ-discrepancy 
based definitions of DD and only included individuals with normal IQ, yet little 
is known about the role of intelligence in the association between numerical 
magnitude processing and mathematical difficulties (MD). The present study 
examined numerical magnitude processing in matched groups of 7- to 8-year-olds 
(n=42) who had either discrepant MD (poor math scores, average IQ), 
nondiscrepant MD (poor math scores, below-average IQ) or no MD. Both groups of 
children with MD showed similar impairments in numerical magnitudes processing 
compared to controls, suggesting that the association between numerical 
magnitude processing deficits and MD is independent of intelligence.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ridd.2014.06.022
PMID: 25036314 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1017. Sensors (Basel). 2014 Jul 17;14(7):12771-83. doi: 10.3390/s140712771.

Design, experiments and simulation of voltage transformers on the basis of a 
differential input D-dot sensor.

Wang J(1), Gao C(2), Yang J(3).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Power Transmission Equipment & System Security and 
New Technology, Chongqing University, Chongqing 400044, China. 
jingang@cqu.edu.cn.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Power Transmission Equipment & System Security and 
New Technology, Chongqing University, Chongqing 400044, China. 
20121102074@cqu.edu.cn.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Power Transmission Equipment & System Security and 
New Technology, Chongqing University, Chongqing 400044, China. 
20131102043@cqu.edu.cn.

Currently available traditional electromagnetic voltage sensors fail to meet the 
measurement requirements of the smart grid, because of low accuracy in the 
static and dynamic ranges and the occurrence of ferromagnetic resonance 
attributed to overvoltage and output short circuit. This work develops a new 
non-contact high-bandwidth voltage measurement system for power equipment. This 
system aims at the miniaturization and non-contact measurement of the smart 
grid. After traditional D-dot voltage probe analysis, an improved method is 
proposed. For the sensor to work in a self-integrating pattern, the differential 
input pattern is adopted for circuit design, and grounding is removed. To prove 
the structure design, circuit component parameters, and insulation 
characteristics, Ansoft Maxwell software is used for the simulation. Moreover, 
the new probe was tested on a 10 kV high-voltage test platform for steady-state 
error and transient behavior. Experimental results ascertain that the root mean 
square values of measured voltage are precise and that the phase error is small. 
The D-dot voltage sensor not only meets the requirement of high accuracy but 
also exhibits satisfactory transient response. This sensor can meet the 
intelligence, miniaturization, and convenience requirements of the smart grid.

DOI: 10.3390/s140712771
PMCID: PMC4168462
PMID: 25036333 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1018. Behav Brain Res. 2014 Oct 1;272:324-34. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2014.07.002. Epub 
2014 Jul 15.

Copy number deletion burden is associated with cognitive, structural, and 
resting-state network differences in patients with schizophrenia.

Martin AK(1), Robinson G(2), Reutens D(3), Mowry B(4).

Author information:
(1)University of Queensland, Queensland Brain Institute, St Lucia Queensland 
4072, Australia. Electronic address: a.martin11@uq.edu.au.
(2)University of Queensland, School of Psychology, St Lucia Queensland 4072, 
Australia. Electronic address: g.robinson@psy.uq.edu.au.
(3)University of Queensland, Centre for Advanced Imaging, St Lucia Queensland 
4072, Australia. Electronic address: cai_pa@uq.edu.au.
(4)University of Queensland, Queensland Brain Institute, St Lucia Queensland 
4072, Australia; University of Queensland, Queensland Centre for Mental Health 
Research, St Lucia Queensland, 4072, Australia. Electronic address: 
b.mowry@uq.edu.au.

Total burden of copy number deletions has been implicated in schizophrenia risk 
and has been associated with reduced cognitive functioning. The current study 
aims to replicate the cognitive findings and investigate regional grey and white 
matter volumes. Moreover, it will explore resting-state networks for 
correlations between functional connectivity and total deletion burden. All 
imaging differences will be investigated for correlations with cognitive 
differences. Seventy-eight patients with chronic schizophrenia, who formed a 
subset of a large genome-wide association study (GWAS), were assessed for 
intelligence, 34 had structural magnetic resonance imaging, 33 had resting-state 
functional magnetic resonance imaging, and 32 had diffusion tensor imaging 
(DTI). Total deletion burden was negatively associated with IQ performance and 
positively associated with regional volumes in the striatum bilaterally and in 
the right superior temporal gyrus and white-matter in the corpus callosum. 
Correlations were identified between deletion burden and both hyper and 
hypoconnectivity within the default-mode network and hypoconnectivity within the 
cognitive control network. The functional connectivity correlations with 
deletion burden were also correlated with the IQ differences identified. Total 
deletion burden affects regional volumes and resting-state functional 
connectivity in key brain networks in patients with schizophrenia. Moreover, 
effects of deletions on cognitive functioning in may be due to inefficiency of 
key brain networks as identified by dysconnectivity in resting-state networks.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2014.07.002
PMID: 25036426 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1019. J Pers Assess. 2015;97(1):100-10. doi: 10.1080/00223891.2014.935980. Epub 2014 
Jul 18.

Factors underlying the psychological and behavioral characteristics of Office of 
Strategic Services candidates: the assessment of men data revisited.

Lenzenweger MF(1).

Author information:
(1)a Department of Psychology , The State University of New York at Binghamton.

During World War II, the Office of Strategic Services (OSS), the forerunner of 
the Central Intelligence Agency, sought the assistance of clinical psychologists 
and psychiatrists to establish an assessment program for evaluating candidates 
for the OSS. The assessment team developed a novel and rigorous program to 
evaluate OSS candidates. It is described in Assessment of Men: Selection of 
Personnel for the Office of Strategic Services (OSS Assessment Staff, 1948). 
This study examines the sole remaining multivariate data matrix that includes 
all final ratings for a group of candidates (n = 133) assessed near the end of 
the assessment program. It applies the modern statistical methods of both 
exploratory and confirmatory factor analysis to this rich and highly unique data 
set. An exploratory factor analysis solution suggested 3 factors underlie the 
OSS assessment staff ratings. Confirmatory factor analysis results of multiple 
plausible substantive models reveal that a 3-factor model provides the best fit 
to these data. The 3 factors are emotional/interpersonal factors (social 
relations, emotional stability, security), intelligence processing (effective 
IQ, propaganda skills, observing and reporting), and agency/surgency 
(motivation, energy and initiative, leadership, physical ability). These factors 
are discussed in terms of their potential utility for personnel selection within 
the intelligence community.

DOI: 10.1080/00223891.2014.935980
PMID: 25036728 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1020. Schizophr Res. 2014 Sep;158(1-3):170-5. doi: 10.1016/j.schres.2014.06.026. Epub 
2014 Jul 16.

Social trait judgment and affect recognition from static faces and video 
vignettes in schizophrenia.

McIntosh LG(1), Park S(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN, USA.
(2)Department of Psychology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN, USA; 
Department of Psychiatry, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN, USA. Electronic 
address: sohee.park@vanderbilt.edu.

Social impairment is a core feature of schizophrenia, present from the 
pre-morbid stage and predictive of outcome, but the etiology of this deficit 
remains poorly understood. Successful and adaptive social interactions depend on 
one's ability to make rapid and accurate judgments about others in real time. 
Our surprising ability to form accurate first impressions from brief exposures, 
known as "thin slices" of behavior has been studied very extensively in healthy 
participants. We sought to examine affect and social trait judgment from thin 
slices of static or video stimuli in order to investigate the ability of 
schizophrenic individuals to form reliable social impressions of others. 21 
individuals with schizophrenia (SZ) and 20 matched healthy participants (HC) 
were asked to identify emotions and social traits for actors in standardized 
face stimuli as well as brief video clips. Sound was removed from videos to 
remove all verbal cues. Clinical symptoms in SZ and delusional ideation in both 
groups were measured. Results showed a general impairment in affect recognition 
for both types of stimuli in SZ. However, the two groups did not differ in the 
judgments of trustworthiness, approachability, attractiveness, and intelligence. 
Interestingly, in SZ, the severity of positive symptoms was correlated with 
higher ratings of attractiveness, trustworthiness, and approachability. Finally, 
increased delusional ideation in SZ was associated with a tendency to rate 
others as more trustworthy, while the opposite was true for HC. These findings 
suggest that complex social judgments in SZ are affected by symptomatology.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.schres.2014.06.026
PMCID: PMC4152408
PMID: 25037526 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: The authors declare no 
conflicts of interest.


1021. Pediatr Neurol. 2014 Sep;51(3):297-310. doi: 
10.1016/j.pediatrneurol.2014.04.027. Epub 2014 May 5.

Cognitive phenotype in ataxia-telangiectasia.

Hoche F(1), Frankenberg E(2), Rambow J(2), Theis M(2), Harding JA(3), Qirshi 
M(2), Seidel K(4), Barbosa-Sicard E(2), Porto L(5), Schmahmann JD(3), Kieslich 
M(2).

Author information:
(1)Cognitive Behavioral Neurology Unit, Ataxia Unit, Department of Neurology, 
Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts; 
Department of Neuropediatrics, Children's Hospital, Goethe-University, Frankfurt 
am Main, Germany. Electronic address: fhoche@mgh.harvard.edu.
(2)Department of Neuropediatrics, Children's Hospital, Goethe-University, 
Frankfurt am Main, Germany.
(3)Cognitive Behavioral Neurology Unit, Ataxia Unit, Department of Neurology, 
Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts.
(4)Dr. Senckenberg Chronomedical Institute, Goethe-University, Frankfurt am 
Main, Germany.
(5)Department of Pediatric Neurology, Children's Hospital, Goethe-University 
Frankfurt am Main, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Pediatric cerebrocerebellar neurodegenerative disorders such as 
ataxia-telangiectasia (AT) have not been examined in detail for neuropsychologic 
changes. Such studies may contribute to the further understanding of 
ataxia-telangiectasia and to the role of the cerebrocerebellar system in the 
development of cognitive function in childhood.
METHODS: Twenty-two patients with the classic phenotype of ataxia-telangiectasia 
were grouped into early stage cerebellar disease (group AT-I) versus late stage 
cerebrocerebellar disease (group AT-II) and examined for neurocognitive 
features. Results were compared with those of healthy control subjects and with 
standard norms.
RESULTS: Patients in AT-I group scored low average compared with standard norms 
on all tests and were impaired compared with healthy control subjects for verbal 
intelligence quotient (P < 0.001), vocabulary and comprehension (P = 0.007), 
processing speed (P = 0.005), visuospatial processing (P = 0.020), and working 
memory (P = 0.046). Patients in AT-II group scored below average compared with 
standard norms on all tests and were impaired compared with control subjects for 
attention (P < 0.001), working memory (P < 0.001), and abstract reasoning (P < 
0.001). Comprehension scores were lower for patients in AT-II than in AT-I group 
(P = 0.002), whereas vocabulary scores showed no difference between groups (P = 
0.480).
CONCLUSION: Cognitive impairments in ataxia-telangiectasia present early, 
coinciding with cerebellar pathology and are characteristic of the cerebellar 
cognitive affective syndrome. Widespread and deeper cognitive deficits manifest 
in later stages of ataxia-telangiectasia when additional noncerebellar pathology 
develops. These results are the first indications of distinct cerebellar and 
extracerebellar and/or subcortical contributions to the range of cognitive 
domains affected in ataxia-telangiectasia and need to be confirmed in future 
studies.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pediatrneurol.2014.04.027
PMID: 25037873 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1022. Sheng Wu Yi Xue Gong Cheng Xue Za Zhi. 2014 Apr;31(2):251-6.

[Remote intelligent Brunnstrom assessment system for upper limb rehabilitation 
for post-stroke based on extreme learning machine].

[Article in Chinese]

Wang Y, Yu L, Fu J, Fang Q.

In order to realize an individualized and specialized rehabilitation assessment 
of remoteness and intelligence, we set up a remote intelligent assessment system 
of upper limb movement function of post-stroke patients during rehabilitation. 
By using the remote rehabilitation training sensors and client data sampling 
software, we collected and uploaded the gesture data from a patient's forearm 
and upper arm during rehabilitation training to database of the server. Then a 
remote intelligent assessment system, which had been developed based on the 
extreme learning machine (ELM) algorithm and Brunnstrom stage assessment 
standard, was used to evaluate the gesture data. To evaluate the reliability of 
the proposed method, a group of 23 stroke patients, whose upper limb movement 
functions were in different recovery stages, and 4 healthy people, whose upper 
limb movement functions were normal, were recruited to finish the same training 
task. The results showed that, compared to that of the experienced 
rehabilitation expert who used the Brunnstrom stage standard table, the accuracy 
of the proposed remote Brunnstrom intelligent assessment system can reach a 
higher level, as 92.1%. The practical effects of surgery have proved that the 
proposed system could realize the intelligent assessment of upper limb movement 
function of post-stroke patients remotely, and it could also make the 
rehabilitation of the post-stroke patients at home or in a community care center 
possible.

PMID: 25039122 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1023. Br J Dev Psychol. 2014 Nov;32(4):440-53. doi: 10.1111/bjdp.12055. Epub 2014 Jul 
5.

Emotion regulation strategies in preschool children.

Sala MN(1), Pons F, Molina P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Turin, Italy.

This study investigated the development of emotion regulation strategies as 
reflected in the narratives of children between the ages of 3 and 6 years. An 
experimental procedure based on story completion tasks was devised to elicit the 
emotion-related narratives of 69 preschool children. Coding of the narratives 
led to the observation of different emotion regulation strategies: Behavioural 
strategies, social support, and cognitive reappraisal. Several significant 
gender and age differences were identified in the use of these strategies. In 
addition, verbal skills, non-verbal intelligence, and emotion comprehension were 
found to be associated with use of the observed emotion regulation strategies, 
although only at specific ages.

© 2014 The British Psychological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/bjdp.12055
PMID: 25040163 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1024. Scand J Psychol. 2014 Oct;55(5):399-408. doi: 10.1111/sjop.12140. Epub 2014 Jul 
4.

Use and interpretation of test scores from limited cognitive test batteries: how 
g + Gc can equal g.

Annell S(1), Sjöberg A, Sverke M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Stockholm University, Stochholm, Sweden; Swedish 
Defence Recruitment Agency, Stockholm, Sweden.

Single scores from limited and unbalanced test batteries of cognitive ability 
can be ambiguous to interpret theoretically. In this study, a limited verbally 
and knowledge-loaded cognitive test battery, from applicants to the Swedish 
police academies (N = 1,344), was examined to provide foundations for the use 
and interpretation of test scores. Three measurement models were compared: one 
single factor model and two bifactor models, which decomposed the variance of 
the battery into orthogonal components. The models were evaluated by fit indices 
and omega coefficients, and then applied to the prediction of academic 
performance. The overall prediction of all models was similar, although specific 
abilities also were found to provide substantial predictive validity over and 
above general intelligence (g). The findings provide support for the use of 
single scores in applied settings (selection), but suggest that it may be more 
appropriate to interpret such scores as composites of substantive components, 
and not just as measures of g.

© 2014 Scandinavian Psychological Associations and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/sjop.12140
PMID: 25040205 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1025. J Diabetes. 2014 Nov;6(6):499-513. doi: 10.1111/1753-0407.12193. Epub 2014 Sep 
10.

Type 1 diabetes-associated cognitive decline: a meta-analysis and update of the 
current literature.

Tonoli C(1), Heyman E, Roelands B, Pattyn N, Buyse L, Piacentini MF, Berthoin S, 
Meeusen R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Physiology and Sports Medicine, Faculty of Physical 
Education and Physical Therapy, Vrije Universiteit Brussel, Brussels, Belgium; 
Department EA4488, Physical Activity, Muscle, Health, University Lille Nord de 
France, Lille, France.

BACKGROUND: Type 1 diabetes (T1D) can have a significant impact on brain 
structure and function, which is referred to as T1D-associated cognitive decline 
(T1DACD). Diabetes duration, early onset disease, and diabetes-associated 
complications are all proposed as factors contributing to T1DACD. However, there 
have been no comparisons in T1DACD between children and adults with T1D. To 
obtain a better insight into the occurrence and effects of T1DACD in T1D, the 
aim of the present meta-analysis was to investigate differences between children 
and adults and to analyse factors contributing T1DACD.
METHODS: Two electronic databases were consulted: PubMed and ISI Web of 
Knowledge. Literature published up until the end of 2013 was included in the 
analysis. Effect sizes (Cohen's d), which are standardized differences between 
experimental and control groups, were calculated.
RESULTS: There was a small to modest decrease in cognitive performance in T1D 
patients compared with non-diabetic controls. Children with T1D performed worse 
while testing for executive function, full intelligence quotient (IQ), and motor 
speed, whereas adults with T1D performed worse while testing the full, verbal 
and performance IQ, part of the executive function, memory, spatial memory, and 
motor speed. Episodes of severe hypoglycemia, chronic hyperglycemia, and age of 
onset can be significant factors influencing cognitive function in T1D.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings in the literature suggest that T1DACD is more severe 
in adults than children, indicating that age and diabetes duration contribute to 
this T1DACD.

© 2014 Ruijin Hospital, Shanghai Jiaotong University School of Medicine and 
Wiley Publishing Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/1753-0407.12193
PMID: 25042689 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1026. Biol Psychol. 2014 Oct;102:18-29. doi: 10.1016/j.biopsycho.2014.06.008. Epub 
2014 Jul 18.

Gender differences in working memory networks: a BrainMap meta-analysis.

Hill AC(1), Laird AR(2), Robinson JL(3).

Author information:
(1)Auburn University, Department of Psychology, 226 Thach Hall, Auburn, AL 
36849, United States. Electronic address: ach0020@auburn.edu.
(2)Florida International University, Department of Physics, Modesto A. Maidique 
Campus, 11200 SW 8th Street, CP 295, Miami, FL 33199, United States.
(3)Auburn University, Department of Psychology, 226 Thach Hall, Auburn, AL 
36849, United States; Auburn University, Auburn University Magnetic Resonance 
Imaging Research Center, Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, 560 
Devall Drive, Auburn, AL 36849, United States; Auburn University, Department of 
Kinesiology, 226 Thach Hall, Auburn, AL 36849, United States. Electronic 
address: jlr0029@auburn.edu.

Gender differences in psychological processes have been of great interest in a 
variety of fields. While the majority of research in this area has focused on 
specific differences in relation to test performance, this study sought to 
determine the underlying neurofunctional differences observed during working 
memory, a pivotal cognitive process shown to be predictive of academic 
achievement and intelligence. Using the BrainMap database, we performed a 
meta-analysis and applied activation likelihood estimation to our search set. 
Our results demonstrate consistent working memory networks across genders, but 
also provide evidence for gender-specific networks whereby females consistently 
activate more limbic (e.g., amygdala and hippocampus) and prefrontal structures 
(e.g., right inferior frontal gyrus), and males activate a distributed network 
inclusive of more parietal regions. These data provide a framework for future 
investigations using functional or effective connectivity methods to elucidate 
the underpinnings of gender differences in neural network recruitment during 
working memory tasks.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopsycho.2014.06.008
PMCID: PMC4157091
PMID: 25042764 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1027. Int J Psychol. 2015 Jun;50(3):215-22. doi: 10.1002/ijop.12089. Epub 2014 Jul 16.

Emotional intelligence and health-related quality of life in institutionalised 
Spanish older adults.

Luque-Reca O(1), Pulido-Martos M, Lopez-Zafra E, Augusto-Landa JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Jaén, Jaén, Spain.

This study explores the relationship between emotional intelligence (EI) and 
health-related quality of life (HRQoL) in a sample of Spanish older adults who 
are institutionalised in long-term care (LTC) facilities. One hundred fifteen 
institutionalised individuals (47.82% women; 88.3 ± 7.9 years) from southern 
Spain completed a set of questionnaires that included measures of EI, health and 
personality. Data were analysed via hierarchical regression. After controlling 
for personality and sociodemographic variables, the EI dimensions, emotional 
comprehension and emotional facilitation, accounted for part of the variance in 
several HRQoL facets. These dimensions could have an important role in the HRQoL 
of residents in LTC. Moreover, the use of a performance measure addresses the 
limitations of previous studies that have relied on self-report measures. These 
aspects underscore the importance of the results of this study.

© 2014 International Union of Psychological Science.

DOI: 10.1002/ijop.12089
PMID: 25044069 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1028. Am J Med Genet A. 2014 Sep;164A(9):2324-7. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.a.36564. Epub 2014 
Jul 7.

Whole ARX gene duplication is compatible with normal intellectual development.

Popovici C(1), Busa T, Boute O, Thuresson AC, Perret O, Sigaudy S, Södergren T, 
Andrieux J, Moncla A, Philip N.

Author information:
(1)APHM, Hôpital Timone-Enfants, Département de Génétique Médicale, Marseille, 
France; Aix-Marseille Université, Inserm, GMGF UMR_S 910, Marseille, France.

We report here on four males from three families carrying de novo or inherited 
small Xp22.13 duplications including the ARX gene detected by chromosomal 
microarray analysis (CMA). Two of these males had normal intelligence. Our 
report suggests that, unlike other XLMR genes like MECP2 and FMR1, the presence 
of an extra copy of the ARX gene may not be sufficient to perturb its 
developmental functions. ARX duplication does not inevitably have detrimental 
effects on brain development, in contrast with the effects of ARX 
haploinsufficiency. The abnormal phenotype ascribed to the presence of an extra 
copy in some male patients may have resulted from the effect of another, not yet 
identified, chromosomal or molecular anomaly, alone or in association with ARX 
duplication.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.a.36564
PMID: 25044608 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1029. Neuropsychiatr Dis Treat. 2014 Jul 8;10:1267-72. doi: 10.2147/NDT.S59599. 
eCollection 2014.

Cerebral palsy in Al-Quseir City, Egypt: prevalence, subtypes, and risk factors.

El-Tallawy HN(1), Farghaly WM(1), Shehata GA(1), Rageh TA(1), Metwally NA(2), 
Badry R(1), Sayed MA(3), Abd El Hamed M(1), Abd-Elwarth A(2), Kandil MR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Assiut University, Assiut Branch, Assuit, Egypt.
(2)Department of Neurology, El Azhr University, Assiut Branch, Assuit, Egypt.
(3)Department of Neurology, Sohag University, Solag, Egypt.

Cerebral palsy (CP) is the most frequent cause of motor handicap. The present 
door-to-door survey was conducted in Al-Quseir City, Egypt, to investigate the 
epidemiology of CP. All inhabitants were screened by three neurologists. Medical 
and neurological examinations were performed for all residents and suspected 
cases of CP were confirmed by meticulous neurological assessment, brain magnetic 
resonance imaging, electroencephalography, and testing with the Stanford-Binet 
Intelligence Scale. Forty-six of 12,788 children aged ≤18 years were found to 
have CP, yielding a childhood prevalence of 3.6 (95% confidence interval 
1.48-2.59) per 1,000 live births. Five adults (aged 19-40 years) among 13,056 
inhabitants had CP, giving an adult prevalence of 0.4 (95% confidence interval 
0.04-0.72) per 1,000. The risk factors for CP identified in this study were 
premature birth, low birth weight, neonatal jaundice, neonatal seizures, and 
recurrent abortion in mothers of children with CP.

DOI: 10.2147/NDT.S59599
PMCID: PMC4099193
PMID: 25045270


1030. Korean J Pediatr. 2014 May;57(5):240-4. doi: 10.3345/kjp.2014.57.5.240. Epub 
2014 May 31.

Identification of a novel mutation in a patient with pseudohypoparathyroidism 
type Ia.

Lee YS(1), Kim HK(1), Kim HR(1), Lee JY(1), Choi JW(1), Bae EJ(1), Oh PS(1), 
Park WI(1), Ki CS(2), Lee HJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Hallym University College of Medicine, Chunchon, 
Korea.
(2)Department of Laboratory Medicine & Genetics, Samsung Medical Center, 
Sungkyunkwan University School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

Pseudohypoparathyroidism type Ia (PHP Ia) is a disorder characterized by 
multiform hormonal resistance including parathyroid hormone (PTH) resistance and 
Albright hereditary osteodystrophy (AHO). It is caused by heterozygous 
inactivating mutations within the Gs alpha-encoding GNAS exons. A 9-year-old boy 
presented with clinical and laboratory abnormalities including hypocalcemia, 
hyperphosphatemia, PTH resistance, multihormone resistance and AHO (round face, 
short stature, obesity, brachydactyly and osteoma cutis) which were typical of 
PHP Ia. He had a history of repeated convulsive episodes that started from the 
age of 2 months. A cranial computed tomography scan showed bilateral 
calcifications in the basal ganglia and his intelligence quotient testing 
indicated mild mental retardation. Family history revealed that the patient's 
maternal relatives, including his grandmother and 2 of his mother's siblings, 
had features suggestive of AHO. Sequencing of the GNAS gene of the patient 
identified a heterozygous nonsense mutation within exon 11 (c.637 C>T). The C>T 
transversion results in an amino acid substitution from Gln to stop codon at 
codon 213 (p.Gln213(*)). To our knowledge, this is a novel mutation in GNAS.

DOI: 10.3345/kjp.2014.57.5.240
PMCID: PMC4102687
PMID: 25045367

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest relevant to 
this article was reported.


1031. Cultur Divers Ethnic Minor Psychol. 2014 Jul;20(3):377-88. doi: 
10.1037/a0035404.

Excluded and avoided: racial microaggressions targeting Asian international 
students in Canada.

Houshmand S(1), Spanierman LB(1), Tafarodi RW(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Educational and Counseling Psychology, McGill University.
(2)Department of Psychology, University of Toronto.

This qualitative study explored East and South Asian international students' (N 
= 12) experiences with racial microaggressions at one Canadian university. Data 
were collected through unstructured, individual interviews. Using a modified 
version of the consensual qualitative research method (Hill, Thompson, & 
Williams, 1997), we identified six racial microaggressions themes: (a) excluded 
and avoided, (b) ridiculed for accent, (c) rendered invisible, (d) disregarded 
international values and needs, (e) ascription of intelligence, and (f) 
environmental microaggressions (structural barriers on campus). In addition, we 
used the same approach to identify themes pertaining to the ways in which 
students coped with racial microaggressions: (a) engaging with own racial and 
cultural groups, (b) withdrawing from academic spheres, and (c) seeking comfort 
in the surrounding multicultural milieu. Microaggressions and coping themes 
differed based on country of origin and language proficiency. Implications for 
research and practice are discussed.

DOI: 10.1037/a0035404
PMID: 25045949 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1032. Environ Res. 2014 Oct;134:66-73. doi: 10.1016/j.envres.2014.06.026. Epub 2014 
Jul 21.

Cadmium exposure and neuropsychological development in school children in 
southwestern Spain.

Rodríguez-Barranco M(1), Lacasaña M(2), Gil F(3), Lorca A(4), Alguacil J(5), 
Rohlman DS(6), González-Alzaga B(1), Molina-Villalba I(3), Mendoza R(7), 
Aguilar-Garduño C(8).

Author information:
(1)Andalusian School of Public Health (EASP), Campus Universitario de Cartuja, 
c/Cuesta del Observatorio 4, 18080 Granada, Spain; Instituto de Investigación 
Biosanitaria de Granada (ibs.GRANADA), Granada, Spain.
(2)Andalusian School of Public Health (EASP), Campus Universitario de Cartuja, 
c/Cuesta del Observatorio 4, 18080 Granada, Spain; Instituto de Investigación 
Biosanitaria de Granada (ibs.GRANADA), Granada, Spain; CIBER of Epidemiology and 
Public Health (CIBERESP), Madrid, Spain. Electronic address: 
marina.lacasana.easp@juntadeandalucia.es.
(3)Department of Legal Medicine and Toxicology, University of Granada, Granada, 
Spain.
(4)Department of Clinical, Experimental and Social Psychology, University of 
Huelva, Huelva, Spain.
(5)Research Center on Health and Environment (CYSMA), University of Huelva, 
Huelva, Spain; CIBER of Epidemiology and Public Health (CIBERESP), Madrid, 
Spain.
(6)Center for Research on Occupational and Environmental Toxicology, Oregon 
Health and Science University, USA; Occupational and Environmental Health, 
University of Iowa, USA.
(7)Department of Developmental and Educational Psychology, University of Huelva, 
Huelva, Spain.
(8)Center for Public Health Research (CSISP-FISABIO), Valencia, Spain.

This study assessed the association between cadmium exposure and 
neuropsychological development in children from a region with high industrial 
and mining activities in southwestern Spain. We conducted a cross-sectional 
study with 261 children aged 6-9 years between January and March 2012. Cadmium 
exposure was measured in urine and hair of children, and neuropsychological 
development was assessed with the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for 
Children-Fourth Edition (WISC-IV) and with three computerized tests from the 
Behavioral Assessment and Research System (BARS): Reaction Time Test (RTT), 
Continuous Performance Test (CPT) and Selective Attention Test (SAT). 
Multivariate linear regression models, adjusted for potential confounders, were 
used to estimate the association between neuropsychological development and 
cadmium exposure measured in urine and hair samples. Geometric means of urine 
and hair cadmium levels were 0.75 μg/g creatinine and 0.01 μg/g, respectively. 
We observed that doubling of levels of cadmium in urine was associated with a 
reduction of two points (95% CI: -3.8 to -0.4) in the Full-Scale intelligence 
quotient (IQ) in boys. By domains, association was statistically significant for 
Verbal Comprehension (β=-2.0; p=0.04) and close to the significance level for 
Perceptual Reasoning (β=-1.8; p=0.06). Among girls, only Verbal Comprehension 
showed suggestive associations with cadmium exposure (β=-1.7; p=0.06). Cadmium 
exposure is associated with cognitive delays in boys in our region. Our results 
provide additional evidence of the neurotoxic effect of low-level postnatal 
cadmium exposure among children, and support the hypothesis of differences 
between sexes in the neurotoxic effect of metals on children.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envres.2014.06.026
PMID: 25046814 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1033. J Ethnopharmacol. 2014 Sep 11;155(2):1243-55. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2014.07.009. 
Epub 2014 Jul 18.

Treatment with ginseng total saponins improves the neurorestoration of rat after 
traumatic brain injury.

Hu BY(1), Liu XJ(2), Qiang R(3), Jiang ZL(4), Xu LH(1), Wang GH(1), Li X(1), 
Peng B(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuropharmacology, Institute of Nautical Medicine, Nantong 
University, 19 Qixiu Road, Chongchuan District, Jiangsu, Nantong 226001, China.
(2)Department of Infectious Diseases, The Third People׳s Hospital of Nantong, 99 
Central Qingnian Road, Chongchuan District, Jiangsu, Nantong 226001, China.
(3)Department of Infectious Diseases, The Third People׳s Hospital of Nantong, 99 
Central Qingnian Road, Chongchuan District, Jiangsu, Nantong 226001, China. 
Electronic address: ntqiangren@gmail.com.
(4)Department of Neuropharmacology, Institute of Nautical Medicine, Nantong 
University, 19 Qixiu Road, Chongchuan District, Jiangsu, Nantong 226001, China. 
Electronic address: jiangzl@ntu.edu.cn.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Ginseng, the root of Panax ginseng C.A. Meyer, 
is a traditional medicinal herb that has been widely used in Asia for the 
treatment of many diseases through its effects of reinforcing vitality, 
strengthening the bodily resistance to pathogenic factors, engendering body 
liquids and allaying thirst, relieving uneasiness of the body and mind and 
benefiting intelligence, reducing body weight and prolonging life. Ginsenosides 
are the most important biologically active substances in ginseng. Many reports 
have suggested that ginsenosides could exert prominent neuroprotective and 
neurotrophic effects, promote neural stem/progenitor cell (NSC) proliferation 
and promote neurite outgrowth and neuronal network formation. The present study 
aimed to investigate whether treatment with ginsenosides could facilitate NSC 
proliferation in the hippocampal formation after traumatic brain injury (TBI) 
and contribute to the recovery of neurological functions including learning and 
memory.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The modified Feeney׳s method was used to induce a TBI in 
rats. Ginseng total saponins (GTS) were treated intraperitoneally twice a day 
for 1 week after the TBI. The neurological functions, morphology of the 
hippocampus, expression of nerve growth-related factors and number of NSCs in 
the hippocampal formation ipsilateral to the trauma were determined.
RESULTS: We determined 1) GTS (5-80 mg/kg) treatment after a TBI improved the 
recovery of neurological functions, including learning and memory, and reduced 
cell loss in the hippocampal area. The effects of GTS at 20, 40, 60, and 80 
mg/kg were better than the effects of GTS at 5 and 10 mg/kg. 2) GTS treatment 
(20 mg/kg) after a TBI increased the expression of NGF, GDNF and NCAM, inhibited 
the expression of Nogo-A, Nogo-B, TN-C, and increased the number of BrdU/nestin 
positive NSCs in the hippocampal formation.
CONCLUSIONS: GTS treatment in rats after a TBI alleviated the secondary brain 
injury and ameliorated the neurological functions with an effective dose limit 
of 5-80 mg/kg. GTS regulated the expression of nerve growth-related factors and 
improved the proliferation of neural stem/progenitor cells, which might 
facilitate neural regeneration and tissue repair, and might contribute to the 
recovery of neurological functions, including learning and memory. These effects 
of GTS might provide a foundation for the use of ginseng as a medicinal herb to 
enhance intelligence, reduce the aging process and prolong life in the 
traditional medicine.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2014.07.009
PMID: 25046825 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1034. Healthc Manage Forum. 2014 Spring;27(1 Suppl):S28-36. doi: 
10.1016/j.hcmf.2014.01.003.

Improving patient access and streamlining processes through enterprise 
intelligence systems.

[Article in English, French]

Dunn RL.

This article demonstrates how enterprise intelligence systems can be used to 
improve operational efficiency in hospitals. Enterprise intelligence systems 
mine raw data from disparate systems and transform the data into actionable 
information, which when used appropriately, support streamlined processes, 
optimize resources, and positively affect staff efficiency and the quality of 
patient care. Case studies on the implementation of McKesson Performance 
Visibility and Capacity Planner enterprise intelligence solutions at the 
Southlake Regional Health Centre and Lions Gate and Richmond Hospitals are 
provided.

DOI: 10.1016/j.hcmf.2014.01.003
PMID: 25046968 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1035. Am J Gastroenterol. 2015 Mar;110(3):362-7. doi: 10.1038/ajg.2014.199. Epub 2014 
Jul 22.

Leadership: an overview.

Vender RJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut, USA.

Despite the influence of leadership in our lives, it remains poorly understood 
by most of us. This review defines leadership as "a combination of position, 
responsibilities, attitude, skills, and behaviors that allows someone to bring 
out the best in others, and the best in their organization, in a sustainable 
manner." There are many traits and skills demonstrated by leaders. These include 
talent, drive, willpower, practical wisdom, loyalty, ethical behavior, emotional 
intelligence, integrity, self-awareness, and resilience. However, to best 
understand leadership we focus on what leaders are actually required to do, 
rather than on the skills and traits used to accomplish these tasks. We review 
nine functions that are at the core of leadership: serve as the public face of 
the organization; articulate the vision and mission; create culture; strategic 
planning; decide what to focus on; select, and develop, the right people; 
establish a decision-making process; manage your boss; and be responsible 24/7. 
All leaders operate in a specific context, during a unique point in the history 
of their organization, with a unique set of circumstances. What is required of 
the leader in one set of circumstances will change as those circumstances 
change. If the leader understands her core responsibilities, and if she develops 
the people, culture, and processes necessary to deal with a changing 
environment, she will have the self-awareness and support necessary to continue 
to lead successfully.

DOI: 10.1038/ajg.2014.199
PMID: 25047400 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1036. J Inherit Metab Dis. 2015 Mar;38(2):323-31. doi: 10.1007/s10545-014-9737-0. Epub 
2014 Jul 22.

Pain: a prevalent feature in patients with mucopolysaccharidosis. Results of a 
cross-sectional national survey.

Brands MM(1), Güngör D, van den Hout JM, Karstens FP, Oussoren E, Plug I, 
Boelens JJ, van Hasselt PM, Hollak CE, Mulder MF, Rubio Gozalbo E, Smeitink JA, 
Smit GP, Wijburg FA, Meutgeert H, van der Ploeg AT.

Author information:
(1)Erasmus MC Center for Lysosomal and Metabolic Diseases, Department of 
Pediatrics, Division of Metabolic Diseases and Genetics, Erasmus MC University 
Medical Center, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: While clinical observations suggest that many patients with 
mucopolysaccharidosis (MPS) experience chronic pain, few studies have assessed 
its extent and impact. We therefore investigated its prevalence in patients with 
all types of MPS in the Netherlands. We also examined the association between 
pain and health related quality of life (HRQoL) and other clinical variables.
METHODS: We conducted a nationwide MPS survey that used questionnaires on MPS 
and disease-related symptoms (MPS-specific questionnaire), developmental level 
(Vineland Screener 0-6 years), quality of life (PedsQl and SF-36), and 
disability (Childhood Health Assessment Questionnaire). Depending on their age 
and developmental level, patients or their parents were asked to assess pain by 
keeping a pain diary for five consecutive days: either the Non-communicating 
Children's Pain Checklist - Revised (3-18 years intellectually disabled and 
children <8 years), the VAS-score (> 18 years), or the Faces Pain Scale - 
Revised (8-18 years).
RESULTS: Eighty-nine MPS patients were invited, 55 of whom agreed to participate 
(response rate 62 %; median age 10.9 years, range 2.9-47.2 years). They covered 
a wide spectrum in all age groups, ranging from no pain to severe pain. Forty 
percent scored above the cut-off value for pain. Most reported pain sites were 
the back and hips. While the MPS III group experienced the highest frequency of 
pain (52.9 %), 50 % of patients with an intellectual disability seemed to 
experience pain, versus 30 % of patients with a normal intelligence. MPS 
patients scored much lower (i.e., more pain) than a random sample of the Dutch 
population on the bodily pain domain of the SF-36 scale and the PedsQl.
CONCLUSION: With or without intellectual disabilities, many MPS patients 
experience pain. We recommend that standardized pain assessments are included in 
the regular follow-up program of patients with MPS.

DOI: 10.1007/s10545-014-9737-0
PMID: 25048386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1037. Sensors (Basel). 2014 Jul 21;14(7):12990-3005. doi: 10.3390/s140712990.

A hybrid spatio-temporal data indexing method for trajectory databases.

Ke S(1), Gong J(2), Li S(3), Zhu Q(4), Liu X(5), Zhang Y(6).

Author information:
(1)School of Software, Jiangxi Normal University, Nanchang 330022, China. 
consnan@126.com.
(2)School of Software, Jiangxi Normal University, Nanchang 330022, China. 
gongjunbox@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Civil Engineering, Ryerson University, Toronto, Ontario M5B 
2K3, Canada. snli@ryerson.ca.
(4)Faculty of Geosciences and Environmental Engineering, Southwest Jiaotong 
University, Chengdu 611756, China. zhuq66@263.net.
(5)Department of Civil Engineering, Ryerson University, Toronto, Ontario M5B 
2K3, Canada. xintao.liu@ryerson.ca.
(6)State Key Laboratory of Information Engineering in Surveying Mapping and 
Remote Sensing, Wuhan University, Wuhan 430079, China. zhangyeting@263.net.

In recent years, there has been tremendous growth in the field of indoor and 
outdoor positioning sensors continuously producing huge volumes of trajectory 
data that has been used in many fields such as location-based services or 
location intelligence. Trajectory data is massively increased and semantically 
complicated, which poses a great challenge on spatio-temporal data indexing. 
This paper proposes a spatio-temporal data indexing method, named HBSTR-tree, 
which is a hybrid index structure comprising spatio-temporal R-tree, B*-tree and 
Hash table. To improve the index generation efficiency, rather than directly 
inserting trajectory points, we group consecutive trajectory points as nodes 
according to their spatio-temporal semantics and then insert them into 
spatio-temporal R-tree as leaf nodes. Hash table is used to manage the latest 
leaf nodes to reduce the frequency of insertion. A new spatio-temporal interval 
criterion and a new node-choosing sub-algorithm are also proposed to optimize 
spatio-temporal R-tree structures. In addition, a B*-tree sub-index of leaf 
nodes is built to query the trajectories of targeted objects efficiently. 
Furthermore, a database storage scheme based on a NoSQL-type DBMS is also 
proposed for the purpose of cloud storage. Experimental results prove that 
HBSTR-tree outperforms TB*-tree in some aspects such as generation efficiency, 
query performance and query type.

DOI: 10.3390/s140712990
PMCID: PMC4168421
PMID: 25051028 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1038. J Child Psychol Psychiatry. 2015 Apr;56(4):415-22. doi: 10.1111/jcpp.12300. Epub 
2014 Jul 23.

Criterion validity of the general factor of psychopathology in a prospective 
study of girls.

Lahey BB(1), Rathouz PJ, Keenan K, Stepp SD, Loeber R, Hipwell AE.

Author information:
(1)University of Chicago, Chicago, IL, USA.

BACKGROUND: The best-fitting model of the structure of common psychopathology 
often includes a general factor on which all dimensions of psychopathology load. 
Such a general factor would be important if it reflects etiologies and 
mechanisms shared by all dimensions of psychopathology. Nonetheless, a viable 
alternative explanation is that the general factor is partly or wholly a result 
of common method variance or other systematic measurement biases.
METHODS: To test this alternative explanation, we extracted general, 
externalizing, and internalizing factor scores using mother-reported symptoms 
across 5-11 years of age in confirmatory factor analyses of data from a 
representative longitudinal study of 2,450 girls. Independent associations 
between the three psychopathology factor scores and teacher-reported criterion 
variables were estimated in multiple regression, controlling intelligence, and 
demographic covariates.
RESULTS: The model including the general factor fit significantly better than a 
correlated two-factor (internalizing/externalizing) model. The general factor 
was robustly and independently associated with all measures of teacher-reported 
school functioning concurrently during childhood and prospectively during 
adolescence.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings weaken the hypothesis that the general factor of 
psychopathology in childhood is solely a measurement artifact and support 
further research on the substantive meaning of the general factor.

© 2014 The Authors. Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry. © 2014 
Association for Child and Adolescent Mental Health.

DOI: 10.1111/jcpp.12300
PMCID: PMC4435546
PMID: 25052460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1039. Future Oncol. 2014 Jun;10(8):1501-13. doi: 10.2217/fon.14.21.

Current status of circulating protein biomarkers to aid the early detection of 
lung cancer.

Hirales Casillas CE(1), Flores Fernández JM, Padilla Camberos E, Herrera López 
EJ, Leal Pacheco G, Martínez Velázquez M.

Author information:
(1)Centro de Investigación y Asistencia en Tecnología y Diseño del Estado de 
Jalisco Avenida Normalistas 800, Colonia Colinas de la Normal, 44270, 
Guadalajara, Jalisco, México.

Considerable efforts have been undertaken to produce an effective screening 
method to reduce lung cancer mortality. Imaging tools such as low-dose computed 
tomography has shown an increase in the detection of early disease and a 
reduction in the rate of death. This screening modality has, however, several 
limitations, such as overdiagnosis and a high rate of false positives. 
Therefore, new screening methods, such as the use of circulating protein 
biomarkers, have emerged as an option that could complement imaging studies. In 
this review, current imaging techniques applied to lung cancer screening 
protocols are presented, as well as up-to-date status of circulating protein 
biomarker panels that may improve lung cancer diagnosis. Additionally, diverse 
statistical and artificial intelligence tools applied to the design and 
optimization of these panels are discussed along with the presentation of two 
commercially available blood tests recently developed to help detect lung cancer 
early.

DOI: 10.2217/fon.14.21
PMID: 25052758 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1040. Schizophr Bull. 2015 Mar;41(2):411-8. doi: 10.1093/schbul/sbu104. Epub 2014 Jul 
22.

Jumping to conclusions, neuropsychological functioning, and delusional beliefs 
in first episode psychosis.

Falcone MA(1), Murray RM(2), Wiffen BD(2), O'Connor JA(2), Russo M(3), Kolliakou 
A(2), Stilo S(4), Taylor H(2), Gardner-Sood P(2), Paparelli A(2), Jichi F(5), Di 
Forti M(2), David AS(2), Freeman D(6), Jolley S(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Institute of Psychiatry, King's College London, 
London, UK; Department of Psychosis Studies, Institute of Psychiatry, King's 
College London, London, UK; aurora.falcone@kcl.ac.uk.
(2)Department of Psychosis Studies, Institute of Psychiatry, King's College 
London, London, UK;
(3)Department of Psychiatry, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, NY;
(4)Department of Psychosis Studies, Institute of Psychiatry, King's College 
London, London, UK; Department of Health Service and Population Research, 
Institute of Psychiatry, King's College London, London, UK;
(5)Department of Biostatistics, King's College London, Institute of Psychiatry, 
London, UK;
(6)Department of Psychiatry, University of Oxford, Warneford Hospital, Oxford, 
UK.
(7)Department of Psychology, Institute of Psychiatry, King's College London, 
London, UK;

BACKGROUND: The "jumping to conclusions" (JTC) data-gathering bias is implicated 
in the development and maintenance of psychosis but has only recently been 
studied in first episode psychosis (FEP). In this study, we set out to establish 
the relationship of JTC in FEP with delusions and neuropsychological 
functioning.
METHODS: One hundred and eight FEP patients and 101 age-matched controls 
completed assessments of delusions, general intelligence (IQ), working memory 
(WM), and JTC (the probabilistic reasoning "beads" task).
RESULTS: Half the FEP participants jumped to conclusions on at least 1 task, 
compared with 25% of controls (OR range 2.1 to 3.9; 95% CI range 1.5 to 8.0, P 
values ≤ .02). JTC was associated with clinical, but not nonclinical delusion 
severity, and with neuropsychological functioning, irrespective of clinical 
status. Both IQ and delusion severity, but not WM, were independently associated 
with JTC in the FEP group.
CONCLUSIONS: JTC is present in FEP. The specific association of JTC with 
clinical delusions supports a state, maintaining role for the bias. The 
associations of JTC with neuropsychological functioning indicate a separable, 
trait aspect to the bias, which may confer vulnerability to psychosis. The work 
has potential to inform emerging interventions targeting reasoning biases in 
early psychosis.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Maryland Psychiatric Research Center. All rights reserved. For permissions, 
please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/schbul/sbu104
PMCID: PMC4332946
PMID: 25053654 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1041. Iran J Psychiatry Behav Sci. 2014 Summer;8(2):22-37.

Evaluating the cognition, behavior, and social profile of an adolescent with 
learning disabilities and assessing the effectiveness of an individualized 
educational program.

Tabitha Louis P(1), Arnold Emerson I(2).

Author information:
(1)Assistant Professor, School of Social Sciences and Languages, VIT University, 
Vellore, Tamil Nadu, India.
(2)Associate Professor, School of Bio Sciences and Technology, VIT University, 
Vellore, Tamil Nadu, India.

OBJECTIVE: The present study seeks to outline a holistic assessment method that 
was used in understanding problems experienced by an adolescent boy and in 
designing and implementing an individualized educational program.
METHODS: An adolescent child referred for concerns in learning was screened for 
learning disability using standardized inventories and test batteries. The 
Connors Parent and Teacher Rating Scales (short forms), Wechsler's Intelligence 
Scale for Children (WISC), the Vineland Social Maturity Scale (VSMS), and the 
Kinetic Family Drawing (KFD) test were used to assess the behavior, cognition, 
and social profile of the child. An individualized educational program was 
designed and this intervention was provided for 6 months by using parents as 
co-therapists. Participant and parent interview schedules were used in 
identifying underlying issues of concern. The child was reassessed 6 months 
after the intervention was provided.
RESULTS: Findings on the Connors Parent Rating Scale revealed scores that were 
greater than the 50(th) percentile on the domains of inattention and cognitive 
problems. On the Connors Teacher Rating Scale, we observed scores greater than 
the 50(th) percentile on the hyperactivity, cognitive problems, and the 
inattention domains. The WISC revealed that the child had a "Dull Normal" 
Intellectual functioning and there was also a deficit of 2 years on the social 
skills as tested by the Vineland Social Maturity Scale (VSMS). The Kinetic 
Family Drawing Test revealed negative emotions within the child. Post 
intervention, we noticed a remarkable improvement in the scores across all 
domains of behavior, social, and cognitive functioning.
CONCLUSION: Designing an individualized education program that is tailored to 
the specific needs of the child and using parents as co-therapists proved to be 
an effective intervention.

PMCID: PMC4105601
PMID: 25053954


1042. ScientificWorldJournal. 2014;2014:879323. doi: 10.1155/2014/879323. Epub 2014 
Jun 26.

Enhancing business intelligence by means of suggestive reviews.

Qazi A(1), Raj RG(1), Tahir M(2), Cambria E(3), Syed KB(4).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology, University of Malaya, 
Lembah Pantai, 50603 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
(2)Faculty of Information Science and Technology, COMSATS Institute of 
Information Technology (CIIT), Park Road, Islamabad 44000, Pakistan ; Faculty of 
Computing and Information Technology, King Abdulaziz University, North Jeddah 
Branch, Jeddah 21589, Saudi Arabia.
(3)School of Computer Engineering, Nanyang Technological University, 50 Nanyang 
Avenue, Singapore 639798.
(4)Faculty of Business and Accountancy, University of Malaya, Lembah Pantai, 
50603 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.

Appropriate identification and classification of online reviews to satisfy the 
needs of current and potential users pose a critical challenge for the business 
environment. This paper focuses on a specific kind of reviews: the suggestive 
type. Suggestions have a significant influence on both consumers' choices and 
designers' understanding and, hence, they are key for tasks such as brand 
positioning and social media marketing. The proposed approach consists of three 
main steps: (1) classify comparative and suggestive sentences; (2) categorize 
suggestive sentences into different types, either explicit or implicit 
locutions; (3) perform sentiment analysis on the classified reviews. A range of 
supervised machine learning approaches and feature sets are evaluated to tackle 
the problem of suggestive opinion mining. Experimental results for all three 
tasks are obtained on a dataset of mobile phone reviews and demonstrate that 
extending a bag-of-words representation with suggestive and comparative patterns 
is ideal for distinguishing suggestive sentences. In particular, it is observed 
that classifying suggestive sentences into implicit and explicit locutions works 
best when using a mixed sequential rule feature representation. Sentiment 
analysis achieves maximum performance when employing additional preprocessing in 
the form of negation handling and target masking, combined with sentiment 
lexicons.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/879323
PMCID: PMC4099162
PMID: 25054188 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1043. PLoS One. 2014 Jul 23;9(7):e101605. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0101605. 
eCollection 2014.

The metagenomic telescope.

Szalkai B(1), Scheer I(2), Nagy K(2), Vértessy BG(3), Grolmusz V(4).

Author information:
(1)PIT Bioinformatics Group, Eötvös University, Budapest, Hungary.
(2)Laboratory of Genome Metabolism, Institute of Enzymology, Research Center for 
Natural Sciences, Hungarian Academy of Sciences, Budapest, Hungary.
(3)Laboratory of Genome Metabolism, Institute of Enzymology, Research Center for 
Natural Sciences, Hungarian Academy of Sciences, Budapest, Hungary; Department 
of Applied Biotechnology and Food Sciences, Budapest University of Technology 
and Economics, Budapest, Hungary.
(4)PIT Bioinformatics Group, Eötvös University, Budapest, Hungary; Uratim Ltd., 
Budapest, Hungary.

Next generation sequencing technologies led to the discovery of numerous new 
microbe species in diverse environmental samples. Some of the new species 
contain genes never encountered before. Some of these genes encode proteins with 
novel functions, and some of these genes encode proteins that perform some 
well-known function in a novel way. A tool, named the Metagenomic Telescope, is 
described here that applies artificial intelligence methods, and seems to be 
capable of identifying new protein functions even in the well-studied model 
organisms. As a proof-of-principle demonstration of the Metagenomic Telescope, 
we considered DNA repair enzymes in the present work. First we identified 
proteins in DNA repair in well-known organisms (i.e., proteins in base excision 
repair, nucleotide excision repair, mismatch repair and DNA break repair); next 
we applied multiple alignments and then built hidden Markov profiles for each 
protein separately, across well-researched organisms; next, using public 
depositories of metagenomes, originating from extreme environments, we 
identified DNA repair genes in the samples. While the phylogenetic 
classification of the metagenomic samples are not typically available, we 
hypothesized that some very special DNA repair strategies need to be applied in 
bacteria and Archaea living in those extreme circumstances. It is a difficult 
task to evaluate the results obtained from mostly unknown species; therefore we 
applied again the hidden Markov profiling: for the identified DNA repair genes 
in the extreme metagenomes, we prepared new hidden Markov profiles (for each 
genes separately, subsequent to a cluster analysis); and we searched for 
similarities to those profiles in model organisms. We have found well known DNA 
repair proteins, numerous proteins with unknown functions, and also proteins 
with known, but different functions in the model organisms.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0101605
PMCID: PMC4108317
PMID: 25054802 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: Co-authors Beata Vertessy 
and Vince Grolmusz are PLOS ONE Editorial Board members. Vince Grolmusz is a CEO 
and shareholder of Uratim Ltd. There are no patents, products in development or 
marketed products to declare. This does not alter the authors' adherence to PLOS 
ONE policies on sharing data and materials.


1044. Community Dent Health. 2014 Jun;31(2):111-6.

What are the most accurate predictors of caries in children aged 5 years in the 
UK?

Broomhead T, Baker SR, Jones K, Richardson A, Marshman Z.

OBJECTIVE: To find the most accurate indicators of the distribution of dental 
caries in 5-year-olds in the city of Sheffield, UK, using a conceptual framework 
based on the social determinants of health.
METHOD: A list of structural and intermediary indicators was compiled based on 
the Commission on the Social Determinants of Health's (CSDH) conceptual 
framework. To quantify these indicators, existing data on dental caries were 
obtained from the NHS Dental Epidemiology Programme, while data on social 
position, education, employment, income, material circumstances, social 
cohesion, psychosocial factors and individual behaviours were obtained from the 
Public Health Intelligence Team at Sheffield City Council. These data were 
mapped onto a simplified framework of the social determinants of dental caries. 
Regression analysis was conducted on this simplified framework to determine the 
amount of variance each indicator contributed to the distribution of dental 
caries at neighbourhood level.
RESULTS: The total score for the 2010 Index of Multiple Deprivation contributed 
a significant amount of variance (60.4%) compared to the combined variance of 
the other 13 indicators (70.5%).
CONCLUSION: The total IMD score has the potential to be used as an indicator for 
the targeting of oral health improvement programmes where survey data are not 
available. A large prospective study is required in the UK to investigate the 
full range of factors in the CSDH model to develop a new index which might 
better predict dental caries experience than IMD.

PMID: 25055609 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1045. Child Dev. 2015 Jan-Feb;86(1):23-36. doi: 10.1111/cdev.12272. Epub 2014 Jul 24.

Does learning to read improve intelligence? A longitudinal multivariate analysis 
in identical twins from age 7 to 16.

Ritchie SJ(1), Bates TC, Plomin R.

Author information:
(1)The University of Edinburgh.

Evidence from twin studies points to substantial environmental influences on 
intelligence, but the specifics of this influence are unclear. This study 
examined one developmental process that potentially causes intelligence 
differences: learning to read. In 1,890 twin pairs tested at 7, 9, 10, 12, and 
16 years, a cross-lagged monozygotic-differences design was used to test for 
associations of earlier within-pair reading ability differences with subsequent 
intelligence differences. The results showed several such associations, which 
were not explained by differences in reading exposure and were not restricted to 
verbal cognitive domains. The study highlights the potentially important 
influence of reading ability, driven by the nonshared environment, on 
intellectual development and raises theoretical questions about the mechanism of 
this influence.

© 2014 The Authors. Child Development published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc. on 
behalf of Society for Research in Child Development.

DOI: 10.1111/cdev.12272
PMCID: PMC4354297
PMID: 25056688 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1046. Neuroimage Clin. 2014 Apr 4;5:152-60. doi: 10.1016/j.nicl.2014.04.001. 
eCollection 2014.

A tensor-based morphometry analysis of regional differences in brain volume in 
relation to prenatal alcohol exposure.

Meintjes EM(1), Narr KL(2), van der Kouwe AJ(3), Molteno CD(4), Pirnia T(2), 
Gutman B(5), Woods RP(2), Thompson PM(5), Jacobson JL(6), Jacobson SW(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Biology, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Cape 
Town, Anzio Road, Observatory, Cape Town 7925, South Africa ; MRC/UCT Medical 
Imaging Research Unit, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Cape Town, 
Anzio Road, Observatory, Cape Town 7925, South Africa.
(2)Department of Neurology, Geffen School of Medicine, University of California 
Los Angeles (UCLA), 710 Westwood Plaza, Los Angeles, CA 90095, USA.
(3)Athinoula A. Martinos Center for Biomedical Imaging, Massachusetts General 
Hospital, Room 2301, Building 149, 13th Street, Charlestown, MA 02129, USA ; 
Department of Radiology, Harvard Medical School, 23 Shattuck Street, Boston, MA 
02115, USA.
(4)Department of Psychiatry and Mental Health, Faculty of Health Sciences, 
University of Cape Town, Anzio Road, Observatory 7925, Cape Town, South Africa.
(5)Imaging Genetics Center, University of Southern California, 4676 Admiralty 
Way, Marina del Rey, CA 90292, USA.
(6)Department of Human Biology, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Cape 
Town, Anzio Road, Observatory, Cape Town 7925, South Africa ; Department of 
Psychiatry and Mental Health, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Cape 
Town, Anzio Road, Observatory 7925, Cape Town, South Africa ; Department of 
Psychiatry and Behavioral Neurosciences, Wayne State University School of 
Medicine, 3901 Chrysler Drive, Suite 2-C, Detroit, MI 48201, USA.

Reductions in brain volumes represent a neurobiological signature of fetal 
alcohol spectrum disorders (FASD). Less clear is how regional brain tissue 
reductions differ after normalizing for brain size differences linked with FASD 
and whether these profiles can predict the degree of prenatal exposure to 
alcohol. To examine associations of regional brain tissue excesses/deficits with 
degree of prenatal alcohol exposure and diagnosis with and without correction 
for overall brain volume, tensor-based morphometry (TBM) methods were applied to 
structural imaging data from a well-characterized, demographically homogeneous 
sample of children diagnosed with FASD (n = 39, 9.6-11.0 years) and controls 
(n = 16, 9.5-11.0 years). Degree of prenatal alcohol exposure was significantly 
associated with regionally pervasive brain tissue reductions in: (1) the 
thalamus, midbrain, and ventromedial frontal lobe, (2) the superior cerebellum 
and inferior occipital lobe, (3) the dorsolateral frontal cortex, and (4) the 
precuneus and superior parietal lobule. When overall brain size was factored out 
of the analysis on a subject-by-subject basis, no regions showed significant 
associations with alcohol exposure. FASD diagnosis was associated with a similar 
deformation pattern, but few of the regions survived FDR correction. In 
data-driven independent component analyses (ICA) regional brain tissue 
deformations successfully distinguished individuals based on extent of prenatal 
alcohol exposure and to a lesser degree, diagnosis. The greater sensitivity of 
the continuous measure of alcohol exposure compared with the categorical 
diagnosis across diverse brain regions underscores the dose dependence of these 
effects. The ICA results illustrate that profiles of brain tissue alterations 
may be a useful indicator of prenatal alcohol exposure when reliable historical 
data are not available and facial features are not apparent.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nicl.2014.04.001
PMCID: PMC4097000
PMID: 25057467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1047. Genet Couns. 2014;25(2):189-95.

Left cerebral hemisphere and ventricular system abnormalities in a Mexican Meier 
Gorlin syndrome patient: widening the clinical spectrum.

Martínez-Barrera LE, García-Delgado C, Manzano-Sierra C, Morán-Barroso VF.

The Meier-Gorlin syndrome (MGS) or ear, patella, short stature syndrome (MIM 
#224690) is a rare disorder with bilateral microtia, aplasia or hypoplasia of 
the patellae and severe intra-uterine and post-natal growth retardation. We 
report the case of a 10-year-old male with MGS diagnosis, his parents were 
related, he also showed conductive hearing loss and maloclussion and long upper 
central incisors, more importantly he had asymmetry of the left cerebral 
hemisphere and ventricular system, his intelligence was normal. As far as we 
know, these abnormalities have not been previously described in patients with 
MGS and the present report corresponds to the first Mexican case described so 
far.

PMID: 25059018 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1048. Brain. 2014 Sep;137(Pt 9):2588-99. doi: 10.1093/brain/awu189. Epub 2014 Jul 23.

Global motion perception deficits in autism are reflected as early as primary 
visual cortex.

Robertson CE(1), Thomas C(2), Kravitz DJ(2), Wallace GL(2), Baron-Cohen S(3), 
Martin A(2), Baker CI(2).

Author information:
(1)1 Laboratory of Brain and Cognition, NIMH, National Institutes of Health, 
Bethesda, MD 20892, USA2 Autism Research Centre, Department of Psychiatry, 
University of Cambridge CB2 8AH, UK carolinerobertson@fas.harvard.edu.
(2)1 Laboratory of Brain and Cognition, NIMH, National Institutes of Health, 
Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.
(3)2 Autism Research Centre, Department of Psychiatry, University of Cambridge 
CB2 8AH, UK3 CLASS Clinic, Cambridgeshire and Peterborough NHS Foundation Trust, 
UK.

Individuals with autism are often characterized as 'seeing the trees, but not 
the forest'-attuned to individual details in the visual world at the expense of 
the global percept they compose. Here, we tested the extent to which global 
processing deficits in autism reflect impairments in (i) primary visual 
processing; or (ii) decision-formation, using an archetypal example of global 
perception, coherent motion perception. In an event-related functional MRI 
experiment, 43 intelligence quotient and age-matched male participants (21 with 
autism, age range 15-27 years) performed a series of coherent motion perception 
judgements in which the amount of local motion signals available to be 
integrated into a global percept was varied by controlling stimulus viewing 
duration (0.2 or 0.6 s) and the proportion of dots moving in the correct 
direction (coherence: 4%, 15%, 30%, 50%, or 75%). Both typical participants and 
those with autism evidenced the same basic pattern of accuracy in judging the 
direction of motion, with performance decreasing with reduced coherence and 
shorter viewing durations. Critically, these effects were exaggerated in autism: 
despite equal performance at the long duration, performance was more strongly 
reduced by shortening viewing duration in autism (P < 0.015) and decreasing 
stimulus coherence (P < 0.008). To assess the neural correlates of these effects 
we focused on the responses of primary visual cortex and the middle temporal 
area, critical in the early visual processing of motion signals, as well as a 
region in the intraparietal sulcus thought to be involved in perceptual 
decision-making. The behavioural results were mirrored in both primary visual 
cortex and the middle temporal area, with a greater reduction in response at 
short, compared with long, viewing durations in autism compared with controls 
(both P < 0.018). In contrast, there was no difference between the groups in the 
intraparietal sulcus (P > 0.574). These findings suggest that reduced global 
motion perception in autism is driven by an atypical response early in visual 
processing and may reflect a fundamental perturbation in neural circuitry.

© The Author (2014). Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Guarantors of Brain. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please email: 
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/brain/awu189
PMCID: PMC4132651
PMID: 25060095 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1049. Int J Epidemiol. 2014 Oct;43(5):1437-1437a-f. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyu144. Epub 2014 
Jul 25.

Cohort profile update: 2004 Pelotas (Brazil) Birth Cohort Study. Body 
composition, mental health and genetic assessment at the 6 years follow-up.

Santos IS(1), Barros AJ(2), Matijasevich A(3), Zanini R(2), Chrestani Cesar 
MA(2), Camargo-Figuera FA(2), Oliveira IO(2), Barros FC(3), Victora CG(2).

Author information:
(1)Universidade Federal de Pelotas, Pelotas, Brazil, Universidade de São Paulo, 
São Paulo, Brazil and Universidade Católica de Pelotas, Pelotas, Brazil 
inasantos@uol.com.br.
(2)Universidade Federal de Pelotas, Pelotas, Brazil, Universidade de São Paulo, 
São Paulo, Brazil and Universidade Católica de Pelotas, Pelotas, Brazil.
(3)Universidade Federal de Pelotas, Pelotas, Brazil, Universidade de São Paulo, 
São Paulo, Brazil and Universidade Católica de Pelotas, Pelotas, Brazil 
Universidade Federal de Pelotas, Pelotas, Brazil, Universidade de São Paulo, São 
Paulo, Brazil and Universidade Católica de Pelotas, Pelotas, Brazil.

This is an update of the 2004 Pelotas Birth Cohort profile, originally published 
in 2011. In view of the high prevalence of overweight and mental health problems 
among Brazilian children, together with the availability of state-of-the-art 
equipment to assess body composition and diagnostic tests for mental health in 
childhood, the main outcomes measured in the fifth follow-up (mean age 6.8 
years) included child body composition, mental health and cognitive ability. A 
total of 3722 (90.2%) of the original mothers/carers were interviewed and their 
children examined in a clinic where they underwent whole-body dual X-ray 
absorptiometry (DXA), air displacement plethysmography and a 3D photonic scan. 
Saliva samples for DNA were obtained. Clinical psychologists applied the 
Development and Well-Being Assessment questionnaire and the Wechsler 
Intelligence Scale for Children to all children. Results are being compared with 
those of the two earlier cohorts to assess the health effects of economic growth 
and full implementation of public policies aimed at reducing social inequalities 
in the past 30 years. For further information visit the programme website at 
[http://www.epidemio-ufpel.org.br/site/content/coorte_2004/questionarios.php]. 
Applications to use the data should be made by contacting 2004 cohort 
researchers and filling in the application form available at 
[http://www.epidemio-ufpel.org.br/site/content/estudos/formularios.php].

© The Author 2014; all rights reserved. Published by Oxford University Press on 
behalf of the International Epidemiological Association.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyu144
PMCID: PMC4190519
PMID: 25063002 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1050. Psychol Med. 2015 Jan;45(2):381-94. doi: 10.1017/S0033291714001512. Epub 2014 
Jun 23.

Do premorbid and post-onset cognitive functioning differ between schizophrenia 
and bipolar disorder? A systematic review and meta-analysis.

Trotta A(1), Murray RM(1), MacCabe JH(1).

Author information:
(1)Psychosis Studies, Institute of Psychiatry,King's College London,UK.

BACKGROUND: Schizophrenia (SZ) is characterized by a broad global cognitive 
impairment that precedes the onset of the disease. By contrast, some studies 
suggest that premorbid deficits are absent, or even reversed, in bipolar 
disorder (BD). However, studies have shown impairments in cognitive functioning 
after the illness onset in both disorders. The aim of this study was to 
systematically review and meta-analyze those studies that compared premorbid 
and/or post-onset global cognitive function between SZ and BD.
METHOD: We searched Medline (PubMed), EMBASE and PsycINFO for studies where 
information on cognitive functioning was collected in both SZ and BD within the 
same study or using the same methods.
RESULTS: Compared to healthy comparison groups, SZ patients showed a significant 
premorbid cognitive impairment [standardized mean difference (SMD) -0.597, 95% 
confidence interval (CI) -0.707 to -0.487, p < 0.0001] and a large post-onset 
impairment (SMD -1.369, 95% CI -1.578 to -1.160, p < 0.0001). We found small 
significant deficits in premorbid intellectual function in the BD group when 
this was assessed retrospectively (-0.147, 95% CI -0.238 to -0.056, p = 0.001) 
but not prospectively (-0.029, 95% CI -0.199 to + 0.142, p = 0.744), and 
moderate cognitive impairment after onset (SMD -0.623, 95% CI -0.717 to -0.529, 
p < 0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: SZ is characterized by significant deficits in premorbid 
intellectual function but the evidence regarding premorbid function in BD is 
equivocal. After illness onset, patients with both disorders seem to suffer a 
further decline in cognitive function but the magnitude of the impairment 
remains greater in SZ than in BD.

DOI: 10.1017/S0033291714001512
PMID: 25065268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1051. Psychol Med. 2014 Nov;44(15):3329-40. doi: 10.1017/S0033291714000427. Epub 2014 
Mar 6.

Impact of stress on different components of impulsivity in borderline 
personality disorder.

Cackowski S(1), Reitz AC(1), Ende G(2), Kleindienst N(1), Bohus M(1), Schmahl 
C(1), Krause-Utz A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychosomatic Medicine and Psychotherapy,Central Institute of 
Mental Health,Mannheim,Germany.
(2)Department of Neuroimaging,Central Institute of Mental 
Health,Mannheim,Germany.

BACKGROUND: Previous research on impulsivity in borderline personality disorder 
(BPD) has revealed inconsistent findings. Impulsive behaviour is often observed 
during states of emotional distress and might be exaggerated by current 
attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) symptoms in individuals with 
BPD. We aimed to investigate different components of impulsivity dependent on 
stress induction controlling for self-reported ADHD symptoms in BPD. METHOD. A 
total of 31 unmedicated women with BPD and 30 healthy women (healthy controls; 
HCs), matched for age, education and intelligence, completed self-reports and 
behavioural tasks measuring response inhibition (go/stop task) and 
feedback-driven decision making (Iowa Gambling Task) under resting conditions 
and after experimental stress induction. ADHD symptoms were included as a 
covariate in the analyses of behavioural impulsivity. Additionally, 
self-reported emotion-regulation capacities were assessed.
RESULTS: BPD patients reported higher impulsive traits than HCs. During stress 
conditions - compared with resting conditions - self-reported impulsivity was 
elevated in both groups. Patients with BPD reported higher state impulsivity 
under both conditions and a significantly stronger stress-dependent increase in 
state impulsivity. On the behavioural level, BPD patients showed significantly 
impaired performance on the go/stop task under stress conditions, even when 
considering ADHD symptoms as a covariate, but not under resting conditions. No 
group differences on the Iowa Gambling Task were observed. Correlations between 
impulsivity measures and emotion-regulation capacities were observed in BPD 
patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Findings suggest a significant impact of stress on self-perceived 
state impulsivity and on response disinhibition (even when considering current 
ADHD symptoms) in females with BPD.

DOI: 10.1017/S0033291714000427
PMID: 25065373 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1052. Psychol Med. 2014 Dec;44(16):3387-405. doi: 10.1017/S0033291714000166. Epub 2014 
Feb 20.

How much do we know about schizophrenia and how well do we know it? Evidence 
from the Schizophrenia Library.

Matheson SL(1), Shepherd AM(1), Carr VJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Schizophrenia Research Institute, Darlinghurst, Sydney, NSW,Australia.

Comment in
    Psychol Med. 2014 Dec;44(16):3407-8.

BACKGROUND: True findings about schizophrenia remain elusive; many findings are 
not replicated and conflicting results are common. Well-conducted systematic 
reviews have the ability to make robust, generalizable conclusions, with good 
meta-analyses potentially providing the closest estimate of the true effect 
size. In this paper, we undertake a systematic approach to synthesising the 
available evidence from well-conducted systematic reviews on schizophrenia.
METHOD: Reviews were identified by searching Medline, EMBASE, CINAHL, Current 
Contents and PsycINFO. The decision to include or exclude reviews, data 
extraction and quality assessments were conducted in duplicate. Evidence was 
graded as high quality if reviews contained large samples and robust results; 
and as moderate quality if reviews contained imprecision, inconsistency, smaller 
samples or study designs that may be prone to bias.
RESULTS: High- and moderate-quality evidence shows that numerous psychosocial 
and biomedical treatments are effective. Patients have relatively poor cognitive 
functioning, and subtle, but diverse, structural brain alterations, altered 
electrophysiological functioning and sleep patterns, minor physical anomalies, 
neurological soft signs, and sensory alterations. There are markers of 
infection, inflammation or altered immunological parameters; and there is 
increased mortality from a range of causes. Risk for schizophrenia is increased 
with cannabis use, pregnancy and birth complications, prenatal exposure to 
Toxoplasma gondii, childhood central nervous system viral infections, childhood 
adversities, urbanicity and immigration (first and second generation), 
particularly in certain ethnic groups. Developmental motor delays and lower 
intelligence quotient in childhood and adolescence are apparent.
CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that while our knowledge of schizophrenia is very 
substantial, our understanding of it remains limited.

DOI: 10.1017/S0033291714000166
PMID: 25065407 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1053. Psychol Med. 2014 Oct;44(14):2965-74. doi: 10.1017/S0033291714000786. Epub 2014 
Apr 9.

Neuropsychological deficits in past suicide attempters with varying levels of 
depression severity.

Keilp JG(1), Beers SR(2), Burke AK(1), Melhem NM(2), Oquendo MA(1), Brent DA(2), 
Mann JJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Imaging and Neuropathology,New York State Psychiatric 
Institute,New York, NY,USA.
(2)Department of Psychiatry,University of Pittsburgh School of 
Medicine,Pittsburgh, PA,USA.

BACKGROUND: Our previous work identified deficits in interference processing and 
learning/memory in past suicide attempters who were currently depressed and 
medication-free. In this study, we extend this work to an independent sample 
studied at various stages of illness and treatment (mild symptoms, on average) 
to determine if these deficits in past suicide attempters are evident during a 
less severe clinical state.
METHOD: A total of 80 individuals with a past history of major depression and 
suicide attempt were compared with 81 individuals with a history of major 
depression and no lifetime suicide attempts on a battery of neurocognitive 
measures assessing attention, memory, abstract/contingent learning, working 
memory, language fluency and impulse control.
RESULTS: Past attempters performed more poorly in attention, memory and working 
memory domains, but also in an estimate of pre-morbid intelligence. After 
correction for this estimate, tests that had previously distinguished past 
attempters - a computerized Stroop task and the Buschke Selective Reminding Test 
- remained significantly worse in attempters. In a secondary analysis, similar 
differences were found among those with the lowest levels of depression 
(Hamilton Depression Rating Scale score <10), suggesting that these deficits may 
be trait markers independent of current symptomatology.
CONCLUSIONS: Deficits in interference processing and learning/memory constitute 
an enduring defect in information processing that may contribute to poor 
adaptation, other higher-order cognitive impairments and risk for suicidal 
behavior.

DOI: 10.1017/S0033291714000786
PMCID: PMC5724375
PMID: 25066266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no other financial involvements 
that would create a conflict of interest based on results reported in this 
manuscript.


1054. Psychol Med. 2014 Dec;44(16):3557-70. doi: 10.1017/S0033291714001020. Epub 2014 
May 22.

Refining the latent structure of neuropsychological performance in 
schizophrenia.

Lam M(1), Collinson SL(2), Eng GK(1), Rapisarda A(1), Kraus M(3), Lee J(1), 
Chong SA(1), Keefe RS(3).

Author information:
(1)Research Division,Institute of Mental Health,Singapore.
(2)Department of Psychology,National University of Singapore,Singapore.
(3)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences,Duke University Medical 
Center,Durham, NC,USA.

BACKGROUND: Elucidating the cognitive architecture of schizophrenia promises to 
advance understanding of the clinical and biological substrates of the illness. 
Traditional cross-sectional neuropsychological approaches differentiate impaired 
from normal cognitive abilities but are limited in their ability to determine 
latent substructure. The current study examined the latent architecture of 
abnormal cognition in schizophrenia via a systematic approach.
METHOD: Exploratory factor analysis (EFA) and confirmatory factor analysis (CFA) 
were carried out on a large neuropsychological dataset including the Brief 
Assessment of Cognition in Schizophrenia, Continuous Performance Test, Wisconsin 
Card Sorting Test, Benton Judgment of Line Orientation Test, and Wechsler 
Abbreviated Scale of Intelligence matrix reasoning derived from 1012 
English-speaking ethnic Chinese healthy controls and 707 schizophrenia cases 
recruited from in- and out-patient clinics.
RESULTS: An initial six-factor model fit cognitive data in healthy and 
schizophrenia subjects. Further modeling, which accounted for methodological 
variance between tests, resulted in a three-factor model of executive 
functioning, vigilance/speed of processing and memory that appeared to best 
discriminate schizophrenia cases from controls. Factor analytic-derived g 
estimands and conventionally calculated g showed similar case-control 
discrimination. However, agreement analysis suggested systematic differences 
between both g indices.
CONCLUSIONS: Factor structures derived in the current study were broadly similar 
to those reported previously. However, factor structures between schizophrenia 
subjects and healthy controls were different. Roles of factor analytic-derived g 
estimands and conventional composite score g were further discussed. Cognitive 
structures underlying cognitive deficits in schizophrenia may prove useful for 
interrogating biological substrates and enriching effect sizes for subsequent 
work.

DOI: 10.1017/S0033291714001020
PMID: 25066336 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1055. Stud Hist Philos Biol Biomed Sci. 2014 Sep;47 Pt A:62-73. doi: 
10.1016/j.shpsc.2014.05.007. Epub 2014 Jul 22.

Unfolding epidemiological stories: how the WHO made frozen blood into a flexible 
resource for the future.

Radin J(1).

Author information:
(1)Yale University, Section for History of Medicine, 333 Cedar St., L214, New 
Haven, CT 06520, USA. Electronic address: joanna.radin@yale.edu.

In the decades after World War II, the World Health Organization (WHO) played an 
important role in managing the process of stabilizing collections of variable 
blood samples as a fundamentally unstable, protean, and unfolding biomedical 
resource. In this system, known and as yet unknown constituents of blood were 
positioned as relevant to the work of multiple constituencies including human 
population geneticists, physical anthropologists, and immunologists. To 
facilitate serving these and other constituencies, it was crucial to standardize 
practices of collecting and preserving samples of blood from globally 
distributed human populations. The WHO achieved this by linking its 
administrative infrastructure-comprised of expert advisory groups and technical 
reports-to key laboratories, which served as sites for demonstrating and also 
for disseminating standards for working with variable blood samples. The 
practices that were articulated in making blood samples into a flexible resource 
contributes to emerging histories of global health that highlight the centrality 
of new institutions, like the WHO, new forms of expertise, like population 
genetics and serological epidemiology, and new kinds of research materials, like 
frozen blood.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.shpsc.2014.05.007
PMID: 25066899 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1056. Sensors (Basel). 2014 Jul 25;14(8):13496-531. doi: 10.3390/s140813496.

Disseminating ambient assisted living in rural areas.

Leitner G(1), Felfernig A(2), Fercher AJ(3), Hitz M(4).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Informatics Systems, Alpen Adria Universitaet Klagenfurt, 
Universitaetsstrasse 65-67, 9020 Klagenfurt, Austria. gerhard.leitner@aau.at.
(2)Institute for Softwaretechnology, Graz University of Technology, Inffeldgasse 
16B, 8020 Graz, Austria. alexander.felfernig@ist.tugraz.at.
(3)Institute for Informatics Systems, Alpen Adria Universitaet Klagenfurt, 
Universitaetsstrasse 65-67, 9020 Klagenfurt, Austria. anton@isys.uni-klu.ac.at.
(4)Institute for Informatics Systems, Alpen Adria Universitaet Klagenfurt, 
Universitaetsstrasse 65-67, 9020 Klagenfurt, Austria. martin.hitz@aau.at.

The smart home, ambient intelligence and ambient assisted living have been 
intensively researched for decades. Although rural areas are an important 
potential market, because they represent about 80% of the territory of the EU 
countries and around 125 million inhabitants, there is currently a lack of 
applicable AAL solutions. This paper discusses the theoretical foundations of 
AAL in rural areas. This discussion is underlined by the achievements of the 
empirical field study, Casa Vecchia, which has been carried out over a four-year 
period in a rural area in Austria. The major goal of Casa Vecchia was to 
evaluate the feasibility of a specific form of AAL for rural areas: bringing AAL 
technology to the homes of the elderly, rather than moving seniors to 
special-equipped care facilities. The Casa Vecchia project thoroughly 
investigated the possibilities, challenges and drawbacks of AAL related to this 
specific approach. The findings are promising and somewhat surprising and 
indicate that further technical, interactional and socio-psychological research 
is required to make AAL in rural areas reasonable in the future.

DOI: 10.3390/s140813496
PMCID: PMC4179043
PMID: 25068862 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1057. Am J Disaster Med. 2014 Spring;9(2):77-85. doi: 10.5055/ajdm.2014.0144.

Emotional intelligence in the operating room: analysis from the Boston Marathon 
bombing.

Chang BP(1), Vacanti JC(1), Michaud Y(2), Flanagan H(1), Urman RD(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, Perioperative and Pain Medicine, Brigham and 
Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts.
(2)Trauma and Burn Program, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, Massachusetts.

INTRODUCTION: The Boston Marathon terrorist bombing that occurred on April 15, 
2013 illustrates the importance of a cohesive, efficient management for the 
operating room and perioperative services. Conceptually, emotional intelligence 
(EI) is a form of social intelligence used by individuals in leadership 
positions to monitor the feelings and emotions of their team while implementing 
a strategic plan.
OBJECTIVE: To describe the experience of caring for victims of the bombing at a 
large tertiary care center and provide examples demonstrating the importance of 
EI and its role in the management of patient flow and overall care.
METHODS: A retrospective review of trauma data was performed. Data regarding 
patient flow, treatment types, treatment times, and outcomes were gathered from 
the hospital's electronic tracking system and subsequently analyzed. Analyses 
were performed to aggregate the data, identify trends, and describe the medical 
care.
RESULTS: Immediately following the bombing, a total of 35 patients were brought 
to the emergency department (ED) with injuries requiring immediate medical 
attention. 10 of these patients went directly to the operating room on arrival 
to the hospital. The first victim was in an operating room within 21 minutes 
after arrival to the ED.
CONCLUSION: The application of EI in managerial decisions helped to ensure 
smooth transitions for victims throughout all stages of their perioperative 
care. EI provided the fundamental groundwork that allowed the operating room 
manager and nurse leaders to establish the calm and coordinated leadership that 
facilitated patient care and teamwork.

DOI: 10.5055/ajdm.2014.0144
PMID: 25068937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1058. Soins. 2014 Jun;(786):75-9.

[Nurses and spies during the First World War].

[Article in French]

Halioua B.

During the First World War, some nurses distinguished themselves by playing a 
significant role in spy networks, using their activity as a cover. They took an 
active part in the setting up of escape routes for allied prisoners of war and 
the gathering of intelligence on the positions of German troops, in particular 
in Belgium and northern France. Among them Edith Cavell, Gabrielle Petit, Louise 
de Bettignies, Marie-Léonie Vanhoutte, Marthe Cocknaert and Emilienne-Rose 
Ducimetière are considered as heroines.

PMID: 25069364 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1059. Brain. 2014 Oct;137(Pt 10):2823-33. doi: 10.1093/brain/awu207. Epub 2014 Jul 28.

Lesion mapping of social problem solving.

Barbey AK(1), Colom R(2), Paul EJ(3), Chau A(4), Solomon J(5), Grafman JH(4).

Author information:
(1)1 Decision Neuroscience Laboratory, University of Illinois, Urbana, IL, USA 2 
Beckman Institute for Advanced Science and Technology, University of Illinois, 
Urbana, IL, USA 3 Department of Internal Medicine, University of Illinois, 
Champaign, IL, USA 4 Department of Psychology, University of Illinois, 
Champaign, IL, USA 5 Department of Speech and Hearing Science, University of 
Illinois, Champaign, IL, USA 6 Neuroscience Program, University of Illinois, 
Champaign, IL, USA 7 Institute for Genomic Biology, University of Illinois, 
Champaign, IL, USA barbey@illinois.edu jgrafman@ric.org.
(2)8 Universidad Autónoma de Madrid, Fundación CIEN/Fundación Reina Sofía, 
Madrid, Spain.
(3)1 Decision Neuroscience Laboratory, University of Illinois, Urbana, IL, USA 2 
Beckman Institute for Advanced Science and Technology, University of Illinois, 
Urbana, IL, USA.
(4)9 Cognitive Neuroscience Laboratory, Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago, 
Chicago, IL, USA.
(5)10 Expert Image Analysis LLC, Potomac, MD, USA.

Accumulating neuroscience evidence indicates that human intelligence is 
supported by a distributed network of frontal and parietal regions that enable 
complex, goal-directed behaviour. However, the contributions of this network to 
social aspects of intellectual function remain to be well characterized. Here, 
we report a human lesion study (n = 144) that investigates the neural bases of 
social problem solving (measured by the Everyday Problem Solving Inventory) and 
examine the degree to which individual differences in performance are predicted 
by a broad spectrum of psychological variables, including psychometric 
intelligence (measured by the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale), emotional 
intelligence (measured by the Mayer, Salovey, Caruso Emotional Intelligence 
Test), and personality traits (measured by the Neuroticism-Extraversion-Openness 
Personality Inventory). Scores for each variable were obtained, followed by 
voxel-based lesion-symptom mapping. Stepwise regression analyses revealed that 
working memory, processing speed, and emotional intelligence predict individual 
differences in everyday problem solving. A targeted analysis of specific 
everyday problem solving domains (involving friends, home management, 
consumerism, work, information management, and family) revealed psychological 
variables that selectively contribute to each. Lesion mapping results indicated 
that social problem solving, psychometric intelligence, and emotional 
intelligence are supported by a shared network of frontal, temporal, and 
parietal regions, including white matter association tracts that bind these 
areas into a coordinated system. The results support an integrative framework 
for understanding social intelligence and make specific recommendations for the 
application of the Everyday Problem Solving Inventory to the study of social 
problem solving in health and disease.

© The Author (2014). Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Guarantors of Brain. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please email: 
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/brain/awu207
PMCID: PMC4163035
PMID: 25070511 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1060. Brain. 2014 Sep;137(Pt 9):2600-10. doi: 10.1093/brain/awu178. Epub 2014 Jul 28.

Response inhibition and serotonin in autism: a functional MRI study using acute 
tryptophan depletion.

Daly E(1), Ecker C(2), Hallahan B(3), Deeley Q(2), Craig M(2), Murphy C(2), 
Johnston P(2), Spain D(2), Gillan N(2), Gudbrandsen M(2), Brammer M(4), 
Giampietro V(4), Lamar M(5), Page L(6), Toal F(2), Schmitz N(7), Cleare A(8), 
Robertson D(9), Rubia K(10), Murphy DG(2).

Author information:
(1)1 Sackler Institute of Translational Neurodevelopment, Department of Forensic 
and Neurodevelopmental Science, Institute of Psychiatry, King's College London, 
UK eileen.daly@kcl.ac.uk.
(2)1 Sackler Institute of Translational Neurodevelopment, Department of Forensic 
and Neurodevelopmental Science, Institute of Psychiatry, King's College London, 
UK.
(3)2 Department of Psychiatry, National University of Ireland, Galway, Ireland.
(4)3 Department of Neuroimaging, Institute of Psychiatry, King's College London, 
UK.
(5)4 Department of Psychiatry, University of Illinois at Chicago, USA.
(6)5 Sussex Partnership NHS Foundation Trust, Brighton and Sussex Medical 
School, Brighton, UK.
(7)6 Dementia Research Unit, Institute of Neurology, University College London, 
UK.
(8)7 Department of Psychological Medicine, Institute of Psychiatry, King's 
College London, UK.
(9)8 Behavioural and Developmental Clinical Academic Group, South London and 
Maudsley NHS Foundation.
(10)9 Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Institute of Psychiatry, 
King's College London, UK.

It has been suggested that the restricted, stereotyped and repetitive behaviours 
typically found in autism are underpinned by deficits of inhibitory control. The 
biological basis of this is unknown but may include differences in the 
modulatory role of neurotransmitters, such as serotonin, which are implicated in 
the condition. However, this has never been tested directly. We therefore 
assessed the modifying role of serotonin on inhibitory brain function during a 
Go/No-Go task in 14 adults with autism and normal intelligence and 14 control 
subjects that did not differ in gender, age and intelligence. We undertook a 
double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover trial of acute tryptophan depletion 
using functional magnetic resonance imaging. Following sham, adults with autism 
relative to controls had reduced activation in key inhibitory regions of 
inferior frontal cortex and thalamus, but increased activation of caudate and 
cerebellum. However, brain activation was modulated in opposite ways by 
depletion in each group. Within autistic individuals depletion upregulated 
fronto-thalamic activations and downregulated striato-cerebellar activations 
toward control sham levels, completely 'normalizing' the fronto-cerebellar 
dysfunctions. The opposite pattern occurred in controls. Moreover, the severity 
of autism was related to the degree of differential modulation by depletion 
within frontal, striatal and thalamic regions. Our findings demonstrate that 
individuals with autism have abnormal inhibitory networks, and that serotonin 
has a differential, opposite, effect on them in adults with and without autism. 
Together these factors may partially explain the severity of autistic behaviours 
and/or provide a novel (tractable) treatment target.

© The Author (2014). Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Guarantors of Brain.

DOI: 10.1093/brain/awu178
PMCID: PMC4132649
PMID: 25070512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1061. Eur Rev Med Pharmacol Sci. 2014;18(15):2145-7.

Serial EEG study in a girl with Landau-Kleffner syndrome associated with 
continuous spikes and waves during slow sleep.

Imataka G(1), Arisaka O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Dokkyo Medical University School of Medicine, 
Tochigi, Japan. geo@dokkyomed.ac.jp.

Landau-Kleffner syndrome (LKS) is rare epileptic encephalopathy in childhood, 
characterized by both acquired epileptic aphasia and abnormal epileptiform 
discharges in electroencephalogram (EEG). We herein report a serial EEG study in 
LKS. A 22-month old girl was referred to our hospital because of frequently 
partial seizures in her left upper limb. On EEG performed and multiforcal spikes 
were recognized. Oral treatment of carbamazepine was started but her seizures 
were not controlled. Her language ability did not progress after 2 years of her 
age. At age 4 years, carbamazepine was switched to valproic acid, leading to 
reduction in the frequency of seizure episodes. She was able to speak two-word 
sentences at 4 years of age, but her word output gradually decreased. At 5 years 
of age, addition of zonisamide further reduced the frequency of seizure 
episodes, but failed to achieve complete control of seizures. She increasingly 
asked for questions to be repeated. Auditory brainstem response testing 
performed at the department of otolaryngology revealed normal hearing ability. 
She was diagnosed as having intellectual deficits with an intelligence quotient 
(IQ) of 61 at 7 years of age. The EEG at 8 years of age showed continuous spikes 
and waves during slow sleep (CSWS), leading to a diagnosis of LKS. After age 11 
years, the CSWS on EEG improved without requiring a change in antiepileptic 
drugs (AEDs). Treatment with the oral AEDs was discontinued at 13 years of her 
age. Her IQ at 13 years of age was in the low 70s.

PMID: 25070819 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1062. J Hum Evol. 2014 Dec;77:107-16. doi: 10.1016/j.jhevol.2014.04.004. Epub 2014 Jul 
26.

A fish is not a fish: patterns in fatty acid composition of aquatic food may 
have had implications for hominin evolution.

Joordens JC(1), Kuipers RS(2), Wanink JH(3), Muskiet FA(4).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Archaeology, Leiden University, P.O. Box 9515, 2300 RA Leiden, The 
Netherlands. Electronic address: j.c.a.joordens@arch.leidenuniv.nl.
(2)Department of Cardiology, Onze Lieve Vrouwe Gasthuis, Oosterpark 9, 1091 AC 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands; Laboratory Medicine, University Medical Center 
Groningen (UMCG), Hanzeplein 1, 9713 GZ Groningen, The Netherlands.
(3)Institute of Biology Leiden, Leiden University, P.O. Box 9505, 2300 RA 
Leiden, The Netherlands; Koeman en Bijkerk bv, Ecological Research and 
Consultancy, P.O. Box 111, 9750 AC Haren, The Netherlands.
(4)Laboratory Medicine, University Medical Center Groningen (UMCG), Hanzeplein 
1, 9713 GZ Groningen, The Netherlands.

From c. 2 Ma (millions of years ago) onwards, hominin brain size and cognition 
increased in an unprecedented fashion. The exploitation of high-quality food 
resources, notably from aquatic ecosystems, may have been a facilitator or 
driver of this phenomenon. The aim of this study is to contribute to the ongoing 
debate on the possible role of aquatic resources in hominin evolution by 
providing a more detailed nutritional context. So far, the debate has focused on 
the relative importance of terrestrial versus aquatic resources while no 
distinction has been made between different types of aquatic resources. Here we 
show that Indian Ocean reef fish and eastern African lake fish yield on average 
similarly high amounts of eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA), docosahexaenoic acid 
(DHA), and arachidonic acid (AA). Hence a shift from exploiting tropical marine 
to freshwater ecosystems (or vice versa) would entail no material difference in 
dietary long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acid (LC-PUFA) availability. However, a 
shift to marine ecosystems would likely mean a major increase in access to 
brain-selective micronutrients such as iodine. Fatty fish from marine 
temperate/cold waters yield twice as much DHA and four times as much EPA as 
tropical fish, demonstrating that a latitudinal shift in exploitation of African 
coastal ecosystems could constitute a significant difference in LC-PUFA 
availability with possible implications for brain development and functioning. 
We conclude that exploitation of aquatic food resources could have facilitated 
the initial moderate hominin brain increase as observed in fossils dated to c. 2 
Ma, but not the exceptional brain increase in later stages of hominin evolution. 
We propose that the significant expansion in hominin brain size and cognition 
later on may have been aided by strong directional selecting forces such as 
runaway sexual selection of intelligence, and nutritionally supported by 
exploitation of high-quality food resources in stable and productive aquatic 
ecosystems.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhevol.2014.04.004
PMID: 25070910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1063. PLoS One. 2014 Jul 29;9(7):e103484. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0103484. 
eCollection 2014.

TIE: an ability test of emotional intelligence.

Śmieja M(1), Orzechowski J(2), Stolarski MS(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Psychology, Jagiellonian University, Kraków, Poland.
(2)Department of Psychology, University of Social Sciences and Humanities, 
Warsaw, Poland.
(3)Faculty of Psychology, University of Warsaw, Warsaw, Poland.

The Test of Emotional Intelligence (TIE) is a new ability scale based on a 
theoretical model that defines emotional intelligence as a set of skills 
responsible for the processing of emotion-relevant information. Participants are 
provided with descriptions of emotional problems, and asked to indicate which 
emotion is most probable in a given situation, or to suggest the most 
appropriate action. Scoring is based on the judgments of experts: professional 
psychotherapists, trainers, and HR specialists. The validation study showed that 
the TIE is a reliable and valid test, suitable for both scientific research and 
individual assessment. Its internal consistency measures were as high as .88. In 
line with theoretical model of emotional intelligence, the results of the TIE 
shared about 10% of common variance with a general intelligence test, and were 
independent of major personality dimensions.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0103484
PMCID: PMC4114749
PMID: 25072656 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


1064. IEEE J Biomed Health Inform. 2015 Jan;19(1):199-209. doi: 
10.1109/JBHI.2014.2336757. Epub 2014 Jul 25.

A decision-support framework for promoting independent living and ageing well.

Billis AS(1), Papageorgiou EI(2), Frantzidis CA(1), Tsatali MS(3), Tsolaki 
AC(3), Bamidis PD(1).

Author information:
(1)Lab of Medical Physics, Medical School, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, 
Thessaloniki, Greece.
(2)Technological Educational Institute of Central Greece, Computer Engineering 
Department, Lamia, TK, Greece.
(3)Greek Association of Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders, Thessaloniki, 
Greece.

Artificial intelligence and decision support systems offer a plethora of health 
monitoring capabilities in ambient assisted living environment. Continuous 
assessment of health indicators for elderly people living on their own is of 
utmost importance, so as to prolong their independence and quality of life. Slow 
varying, long-term deteriorating health trends are not easily identifiable in 
seniors. Thus, early sign detection of a specific condition, as well as, any 
likely transition from a healthy state to a pathological one are key problems 
that the herein proposed framework aims at resolving. Statistical process 
control concepts offer a personalized approach toward identification of trends 
that are away from the atypical behavior or state of the seniors, while fuzzy 
cognitive maps knowledge representation and inference schema have proved to be 
efficient in terms of disease classification. Geriatric depression is used as a 
case study throughout the paper, so to prove the validity of the framework, 
which is planned to be pilot tested with a series of lone-living seniors in 
their own homes.

DOI: 10.1109/JBHI.2014.2336757
PMID: 25073180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1065. Zhongguo Xiu Fu Chong Jian Wai Ke Za Zhi. 2014 May;28(5):606-9.

[Median nerve constrictive operation combined with tendon transfer to treat 
brain paralysis convulsive deformity of hand].

[Article in Chinese]

Ma S, Zhou T.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the effectiveness of the median nerve constrictive 
operation combined with tendon transfer to treat the brain paralysis convulsive 
deformity of the hand.
METHODS: The clinical data from 21 cases with brain paralysis convulsive 
deformity of the hand were analyzed retrospectively between August 2009 and 
April 2012. Of them, there were 13 males and 8 females with an average age of 15 
years (range, 10-29 years). The causes of the convulsive cerebral palsy included 
preterm deliveries in 11 cases, hypoxia asphyxia in 7, traumatic brain injury in 
2, and encephalitis sequela in 1. The disease duration was 2-26 years (mean, 
10.6 years). All the 21 patients had cock waists, crooking fingers, and 
contracture of adductors pollicis, 12 had the forearm pronation deformity. 
According to Ashworth criteria, there were 2 cases at level I, 5 cases at level 
II, 8 cases at level III, 4 cases at level IV, and 2 cases at level V. All 
patients had no intelligence disturbances. The forearm X-ray film showed no bone 
architectural changes before operation. The contraction of muscle and 
innervation was analyzed before operation. The median nerve constrictive 
operation combined with tendon transfer was performed. The functional activities 
and deformity improvement were evaluated during follow-up.
RESULTS: After operation, all the patients' incision healed by first intension, 
without muscle atrophy and ischemic spasm. All the 21 cases were followed up 
1.5-4.5 years (mean, 2.3 years). No superficial sensory loss occurred. The 
effectiveness was excellent in 13 cases, good in 6 cases, and poor in 2 cases, 
with an excellent and good rate of 90.4% at last follow-up.
CONCLUSION: The median nerve constrictive operation combined with tendon 
transfer to treat brain paralysis convulsive deformity of the hand can remove 
and prevent the recurrence of spasm, achieve the orthopedic goals, to assure the 
restoration of motor function and the improvement of the life quality.

PMID: 25073282 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1066. Psychol Rep. 2014 Jun;114(3):880-90. doi: 10.2466/04.21.PR0.114k29w3. Epub 2014 
May 21.

Associations between trait emotional intelligence and loneliness in Chinese 
undergraduate students: mediating effects of self-esteem and social support.

Zou J(1).

Author information:
(1)1 Research Center of Learning Science, Southeast University, Key Laboratory 
of Child Development and Learning Science, Southeast University, School of 
Education, Linyi University.

Prior studies indicate that trait emotional intelligence (EI) is associated 
negatively with loneliness. However, the mechanisms underlying the relationship 
are not clear. This study assessed whether both self-esteem and social support 
mediated the associations between trait EI and loneliness. 469 Chinese 
undergraduate participants whose age ranged from 18 to 23 years (208 women) were 
asked to complete four self-report questionnaires, including the Wong Law 
Emotional Intelligence Scale, the Social and Emotional Loneliness Scale, the 
Rosenberg Self-esteem Scale, and the Multi-Dimensional Scale of Perceived Social 
Support. Analyses indicated that self-esteem and social support fully mediated 
the associations between trait EI and loneliness. Effect contrasts indicated 
that the specific indirect effect through social support was significantly 
greater than that through self-esteem. Moreover, a multiple-group analysis 
indicated that no path differed significantly by sex. These results suggest that 
social support is more important than self-esteem in the association between 
trait EI and loneliness. Furthermore, both sexes appear to share the same 
mechanism underlying this association.

DOI: 10.2466/04.21.PR0.114k29w3
PMID: 25074308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1067. Appl Neuropsychol Child. 2015;4(3):133-40. doi: 10.1080/21622965.2013.811075. 
Epub 2014 Jul 29.

Attention Problems and Stability of WISC-IV Scores Among Clinically Referred 
Children.

Green Bartoi M(1), Issner JB, Hetterscheidt L, January AM, Kuentzel JG, Barnett 
D.

Author information:
(1)a Psychology , Wayne State University , Detroit , Michigan.

We examined the stability of Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children-Fourth 
Edition (WISC-IV) scores among 51 diverse, clinically referred 8- to 
16-year-olds (M(age) = 11.24 years, SD = 2.36). Children were referred to and 
tested at an urban, university-based training clinic; 70% of eligible children 
completed follow-up testing 12 months to 40 months later (M = 22.05, SD = 5.94). 
Stability for index scores ranged from .58 (Processing Speed) to .81 (Verbal 
Comprehension), with a stability of .86 for Full-Scale IQ. Subtest score 
stability ranged from .35 (Letter-Number Sequencing) to .81 (Vocabulary). 
Indexes believed to be more susceptible to concentration (Processing Speed and 
Working Memory) had lower stability. We also examined attention problems as a 
potential moderating factor of WISC-IV index and subtest score stability. 
Children with attention problems had significantly lower stability for Digit 
Span and Matrix Reasoning subtests compared with children without attention 
problems. These results provide support for the temporal stability of the 
WISC-IV and also provide some support for the idea that attention problems 
contribute to children producing less stable IQ estimates when completing the 
WISC-IV. We hope our report encourages further examination of this hypothesis 
and its implications.

DOI: 10.1080/21622965.2013.811075
PMID: 25074427 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1068. Front Psychol. 2014 Jul 16;5:774. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.00774. eCollection 
2014.

Musical activity and emotional competence - a twin study.

Theorell TP(1), Lennartsson AK(2), Mosing MA(2), Ullén F(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Karolinska Institute Stockholm, Sweden ; Stress 
Research Institute, Stockholm University Stockholm Sweden.
(2)Department of Neuroscience, Karolinska Institute Stockholm, Sweden.

The hypothesis was tested that musical activities may contribute to the 
prevention of alexithymia. We tested whether musical creative achievement and 
musical practice are associated with lower alexithymia. 8000 Swedish twins aged 
27-54 were studied. Alexithymia was assessed using the Toronto Alexithymia 
Scale-20. Musical achievement was rated on a 7-graded scale. Participants 
estimated number of hours of music practice during different ages throughout 
life. A total life estimation of number of accumulated hours was made. They were 
also asked about ensemble playing. In addition, twin modelling was used to 
explore the genetic architecture of the relation between musical practice and 
alexithymia. Alexithymia was negatively associated with (i) musical creative 
achievement, (ii) having played a musical instrument as compared to never having 
played, and - for the subsample of participants that had played an instrument - 
(iii) total hours of musical training (r = -0.12 in men and -0.10 in women). 
Ensemble playing added significant variance. Twin modelling showed that 
alexithymia had a moderate heritability of 36% and that the association with 
musical practice could be explained by shared genetic influences. Associations 
between musical training and alexithymia remained significant when controlling 
for education, depression, and intelligence. Musical achievement and musical 
practice are associated with lower levels of alexithymia in both men and women. 
Musical engagement thus appears to be associated with higher emotional 
competence, although effect sizes are small. The association between musical 
training and alexithymia appears to be entirely genetically mediated, suggesting 
genetic pleiotropy.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.00774
PMCID: PMC4100574
PMID: 25076933


1069. PLoS One. 2014 Jul 31;9(7):e103846. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0103846. 
eCollection 2014.

Infant SES as a predictor of personality--is the association mediated by 
intelligence?

Flensborg-Madsen T(1), Mortensen EL(2).

Author information:
(1)Unit of Medical Psychology, Institute of Public Health, University of 
Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(2)Unit of Medical Psychology, Institute of Public Health, University of 
Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark; Center for Healthy Aging, The Faculty of Health 
and Medical Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark; Institute 
of Preventive Medicine, Bispebjerg and Frederiksberg Hospital, The Capital 
Region, Copenhagen, Denmark.

BACKGROUND: Although research into the continuity and change of personality 
traits during a lifespan has been fairly extensive, little research has been 
conducted on childhood predictors of adult personality.
PURPOSE: We aimed to investigate the association between infant socioeconomic 
status (SES), and Eysenck personality traits in adulthood. An additional aim was 
to investigate whether intelligence and education may mediate this association.
METHODS: SES of 9125 children in the Copenhagen Perinatal Cohort was recorded at 
a 1-year examination. A subsample of this cohort, comprising 1182 individuals, 
participated in a follow-up at 20-34 years and was administered the Eysenck 
Personality Questionnaire (EPQ) which includes measures of neuroticism, 
extraversion, psychoticism and the so-called lie-scale. Associations of SES with 
each of the four personality traits were analysed by bivariate and partial 
correlations, and the mediating effects of intelligence and years of education 
were analysed.
RESULTS: Higher SES in infancy was associated with lower neuroticism (r = -0.06; 
p = 0.05), lower lie-scale scores (r = -0.11; p = 0.0002), and higher 
psychoticism (r = 0.09; p = 0.003). However, analyses of mediation revealed no 
direct effect of infant SES on any of the adult personality traits, but only 
indirect effects mediated by intelligence and years of education, with 
intelligence being the main mediating factor.
CONCLUSION: Only weak associations were observed between infant SES and 
personality in young adulthood, and the observed associations were mediated by 
adult intelligence and educational level. Thus, factors associated with infant 
SES or family background appears to have weak direct effects on personality 
development.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0103846
PMCID: PMC4117594
PMID: 25078408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


1070. Soc Neurosci. 2014;9(6):601-9. doi: 10.1080/17470919.2014.944317. Epub 2014 Jul 
31.

Empathy, autistic traits, and motor resonance in adults with Turner syndrome.

Lepage JF(1), Lortie M, Deal CL, Théoret H.

Author information:
(1)a Département de psychologie , Université de Montréal , Montréal , Canada.

Turner syndrome is a genetic condition resulting from the partial or complete 
absence of an X-chromosome in phenotypic females. Individuals with Turner 
syndrome often display social difficulties that are reminiscent of those 
associated with autistic spectrum disorders (ASD), conditions associated with 
empathy and mirror-neuron system (MNS) deficits. The goal of the present study 
was (1) to investigate the extent to which adults with Turner syndrome display 
autistic and empathic traits, and (2) to probe the integrity of the MNS in this 
neurogenetic disorder. Sixteen individuals with Turner syndrome and 16 age-, 
sex-, and IQ-matched controls took part in a neuropsychological assessment where 
the Weschler Abbreviated Scale of Intelligence, the Autism Spectrum Quotient and 
the Empathy Quotient were administered. Functioning of the MNS was assessed by 
measuring motor cortex activity with transcranial magnetic stimulation during an 
action-observation task. Results show that individuals with Turner syndrome do 
not differ significantly from controls regarding autistic or empathic traits, 
and present normal functioning of the MNS during action observation. 
Correlational analysis showed a significant positive relationship between scores 
on the Empathy Quotient and motor facilitation during action observation, 
bringing further support to the hypothesis that MNS activity is related to 
sociocognitive competence.

DOI: 10.1080/17470919.2014.944317
PMID: 25079009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1071. Neurochem Res. 2014 Nov;39(11):2058-67. doi: 10.1007/s11064-014-1393-0. Epub 
2014 Jul 31.

A pilot study on the contribution of folate gene variants in the cognitive 
function of ADHD probands.

Saha T(1), Dutta S, Rajamma U, Sinha S, Mukhopadhyay K.

Author information:
(1)Manovikas Biomedical Research and Diagnostic Centre, 482, Madudah, Plot I-24, 
Sec.-J, E.M. Bypass, Kolkata, 700107, India.

Genetic abnormalities in components important for the folate cycle confer risk 
for various disorders since adequate folate turnover is necessary for normal 
methylation, gene expression and chromosome structure. However, the system has 
rarely been studied in children diagnosed with attention deficit hyperactivity 
disorder (ADHD). We hypothesized that ADHD related cognitive deficit could be 
attributed to abnormalities in the folate cycle and explored functional single 
nucleotide polymorphisms in methylenetetrahydrofolate dehydrogenase (rs2236225), 
reduced folate carrier (rs1051266), and methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase 
(rs1801131 and rs1801133) in families with ADHD probands (N = 185) and 
ethnically matched controls (N = 216) recruited following the DSM-IV. After 
obtaining informed written consent for participation, peripheral blood was 
collected for genomic DNA isolation and PCR-based analysis of target sites. Data 
obtained was analyzed by UNPHASED. Interaction between sites was analyzed by the 
multi dimensionality reduction (MDR) program. Genotypic frequencies of the 
Indian population were strikingly different from other ethnic groups. rs1801133 
"T" allele showed biased transmission in female probands (p < 0.05). Significant 
difference in genotypic frequencies for female probands was also noticed. 
rs1801131 and rs1801133 showed an association with low intelligence quotient 
(IQ). MDR analysis exhibited independent effects and contribution of these sites 
to IQ, thus indicating a role of these genes in ADHD related cognitive deficit.

DOI: 10.1007/s11064-014-1393-0
PMID: 25079255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1072. Psychometrika. 2015 Sep;80(3):625-44. doi: 10.1007/s11336-014-9406-0. Epub 2014 
Aug 1.

Heteroscedastic Latent Trait Models for Dichotomous Data.

Molenaar D(1).

Author information:
(1)Psychological Methods, Department of Psychology, University of Amsterdam, 
Weesperplein 4, 1018 XA , Amsterdam, The Netherlands, D.Molenaar@uva.nl.

Effort has been devoted to account for heteroscedasticity with respect to 
observed or latent moderator variables in item or test scores. For instance, in 
the multi-group generalized linear latent trait model, it could be tested 
whether the observed (polychoric) covariance matrix differs across the levels of 
an observed moderator variable. In the case that heteroscedasticity arises 
across the latent trait itself, existing models commonly distinguish between 
heteroscedastic residuals and a skewed trait distribution. These models have 
valuable applications in intelligence, personality and psychopathology research. 
However, existing approaches are only limited to continuous and polytomous data, 
while dichotomous data are common in intelligence and psychopathology research. 
Therefore, in present paper, a heteroscedastic latent trait model is presented 
for dichotomous data. The model is studied in a simulation study, and applied to 
data pertaining alcohol use and cognitive ability.

DOI: 10.1007/s11336-014-9406-0
PMID: 25080866 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1073. Orphanet J Rare Dis. 2014 Aug 1;9:107. doi: 10.1186/s13023-014-0107-7.

Cross-sectional study of 168 patients with hepatorenal tyrosinaemia and 
implications for clinical practice.

Mayorandan S(1), Meyer U(2), Gokcay G(3), Segarra NG(4), de Baulny HO(5), van 
Spronsen F(6), Zeman J(7), de Laet C(8), Spiekerkoetter U(9), Thimm E(10), 
Maiorana A(11), Dionisi-Vici C(12), Moeslinger D(13), Brunner-Krainz M(14), 
Lotz-Havla AS(15), Cocho de Juan JA(16), Couce Pico ML(17), Santer R(18), 
Scholl-Bürgi S(19), Mandel H(20), Bliksrud YT(21), Freisinger P(22), 
Aldamiz-Echevarria LJ(23), Hochuli M(24), Gautschi M(25), Endig J(26), Jordan 
J(27), McKiernan P(28), Ernst S(29), Morlot S(30), Vogel A(31), Sander J(32), 
Das AM(33).

Author information:
(1)Clinic for Paediatric Kidney-, Liver and Metabolic Diseases, Hannover Medical 
School, Carl-Neuberg-Str.1, D-30625, Hannover, Germany. 
sebene.mayorandan@ukmuenster.de.
(2)Clinic for Paediatric Kidney-, Liver and Metabolic Diseases, Hannover Medical 
School, Carl-Neuberg-Str.1, D-30625, Hannover, Germany. 
meyer.uta@mh-hannover.de.
(3)Istanbul University Faculty of Medicine, Fatih/Capa, Istanbul, 34093, Turkey. 
gfgokcay@superonline.com.
(4)Reference Center for Inherited Metabolic Diseases, Hôpital Robert Debré, APHP 
48 Boulevard Sérurier, F-75019, Paris, France. Nuria.garcia-segarra@chuv.ch.
(5)Reference Center for Inherited Metabolic Diseases, Hôpital Robert Debré, APHP 
48 Boulevard Sérurier, F-75019, Paris, France. helene.ogier@rdb.aphp.fr.
(6)Section of Metabolic Diseases, Beatrix Children's Hospital, University 
Medical Center Groningen, University of Groningen, Hanzeplein 1, 9713 GZ, 
Groningen, The Netherlands. f.j.van.spronsen@umcg.nl.
(7)Department of Pediatrics, First Faculty of Medicine, Charles University, 
Prague, Ke Karlovu 2, Prague 2, 128 08, Czech Republic. Jiri.zeman@vfn.cz.
(8)Queen Fabiola Children's University Hospital, Avenue Crocq 15, B-1020, 
Brussels, Belgium. corinne.delaet@huderf.be.
(9)Allgemeine Kinderheilkunde und Jugendmedizin, Universitätsklinikum Freiburg, 
Mathildenstr. 1, D-79106, Freiburg, Germany. 
ute.spiekerkoetter@uniklinik-freiburg.de.
(10)Universitätsklinikum Düsseldorf, Moorenstr. 5, D-40225, Düsseldorf, Germany. 
eva.thimm@med.uni-duesseldorf.de.
(11)Bambino Gesù Children's Hospital, Piazza Sant'Onofrio, 4, 00165, Rome, 
Italy. arianna.maiorana@opbg.net.
(12)Bambino Gesù Children's Hospital, Piazza Sant'Onofrio, 4, 00165, Rome, 
Italy. carlo.dionisivici@opbg.net.
(13)Universitätsklinik für Kinder- und Jugendheilkunde, Währinger Gürtel 18-20, 
1090, Wien, Austria. dorothea.moeslinger@meduniwien.ac.at.
(14)Medizinische Universität Graz, Auenbruggerplatz 2, A-8036, Graz, Austria. 
Michaela.Brunner-Krainz@klinikum-graz.at.
(15)Dr.von Haunersches Kinderspital, Lindwurmstr. 4, D-80337, München, Germany. 
amelie.lotz@med.uni-muenchen.de.
(16)Unidad de Enfermedades Metabólicas Congénitas, Hospital Clínico 
Universitario, Santiago de Compostela, Travesía de Choupana, s/n 15706, Santiago 
de Compostela, Spain. jose.cocho.de.juan@sergas.es.
(17)Unidad de Enfermedades Metabólicas Congénitas, Hospital Clínico 
Universitario, Santiago de Compostela, Travesía de Choupana, s/n 15706, Santiago 
de Compostela, Spain. maria.luz.couce.pico@sergas.es.
(18)Universitätsklinikum Hamburg-Eppendorf, Klinik und Poliklinik für Kinder-und 
Jugendmedizin, Martinistr. 52, D-20246, Hamburg, Germany. 
r.santer@uke.uni-hamburg.de.
(19)Department für Kinder-und Jugendheilkunde, Medizinische Universität 
Innsbruck, Anichstrasse 35, A-6020, Innsbruck, Austria. 
sabine.scholl-buergi@uki.at.
(20)Pediatric Metabolic Disorders, Rambam Medical center, 6 Ha'Aliya Street, 
Post Box No 9602, Haifa, Haifa, 31096, Israel. h_mandel@rambam.health.gov.il.
(21)Oslo University Hospital, P.B. 4950, Nydalen, 0424, Oslo, Norway. 
yngve.thomas.bliksrud@ous-hf.no.
(22)Klinik für Kinder-und Jugendmedizin, Steinenbergstr. 31, D-72764, 
Reutlingen, Germany. freisinger_p@klin-rt.de.
(23)Hospital universitario de Cruces, Plaza de Cruces, 12, 48903, San Vicente de 
Barakaldo, Spain. LUISJOSE.ALDAMIZ-ECHEVARAZUARA@osakidetza.net.
(24)Universitätspital Zürich, Klinik für Endokrinologie, Diabetologie und 
Klinische Ernährung, Rämistrasse 100, CH-8091, Zürich, Switzerland. 
michel.hochuli@usz.ch.
(25)Universitätsklinik für Kinderheilkunde, Inselspital, Freiburgstrasse 7, 
CH-3010, Bern, Switzerland. Matthias.Gautschi@insel.ch.
(26)Hannover Medical School, Clinic for Gastroenterology, Hepatology and 
Endocrinology, Carl-Neuberg-Str.1, D-30625, Hannover, Germany. 
Endig.jessica@mh-hannover.de.
(27)Institute of Clinical Pharmacology, Hannover Medical School, 
Carl-Neuberg-Str.1, D-30625, Hannover, Germany. Jordan.jens@mh-hannover.de.
(28)Birmingham Children's Hospital, Steelhouse Ln, Birmingham, B4 6NH, United 
Kingdom. pat.mckiernan@bch.nhs.uk.
(29)Hannover Medical School, Institute for Biometry, Carl-Neuberg-Str.1, 
D-30625, Hannover, Germany. Ernst.stefanie@mh-hannover.de.
(30)Hannover Medical School, Institute for Cellular and Molecular Pathology, 
Carl-Neuberg-Str.1, D-30625, Hannover, Germany. Morlot.susanne@mh-hannover.de.
(31)Hannover Medical School, Clinic for Gastroenterology, Hepatology and 
Endocrinology, Carl-Neuberg-Str.1, D-30625, Hannover, Germany. 
Vogel.Arndt@mh-hannover.de.
(32)Screening-Labor Hannover, Am Steinweg 11A/13B, D-30952, Ronnenberg/Benthe, 
Germany. j.sander@metabscreen.de.
(33)Clinic for Paediatric Kidney-, Liver and Metabolic Diseases, Hannover 
Medical School, Carl-Neuberg-Str.1, D-30625, Hannover, Germany. 
das.anibh@mh-hannover.de.

BACKGROUND: Hepatorenal tyrosinaemia (Tyr 1) is a rare inborn error of tyrosine 
metabolism. Without treatment, patients are at high risk of developing acute 
liver failure, renal dysfunction and in the long run hepatocellular carcinoma. 
The aim of our study was to collect cross-sectional data.
METHODS: Via questionnaires we collected retrospective data of 168 patients with 
Tyr 1 from 21 centres (Europe, Turkey and Israel) about diagnosis, treatment, 
monitoring and outcome. In a subsequent consensus workshop, we discussed data 
and clinical implications.
RESULTS: Early treatment by NTBC accompanied by diet is essential to prevent 
serious complications such as liver failure, hepatocellular carcinoma and renal 
disease. As patients may remain initially asymptomatic or develop 
uncharacteristic clinical symptoms in the first months of life newborn mass 
screening using succinylacetone (SA) as a screening parameter in dried blood is 
mandatory for early diagnosis. NTBC-treatment has to be combined with natural 
protein restriction supplemented with essential amino acids. NTBC dosage should 
be reduced to the minimal dose allowing metabolic control, once daily dosing may 
be an option in older children and adults in order to increase compliance. 
Metabolic control is judged by SA (below detection limit) in dried blood or 
urine, plasma tyrosine (<400 μM) and NTBC-levels in the therapeutic range (20-40 
μM). Side effects of NTBC are mild and often transient. Indications for liver 
transplantation are hepatocellular carcinoma or failure to respond to NTBC. 
Follow-up procedures should include liver and kidney function tests, tumor 
markers and imaging, ophthalmological examination, blood count, psychomotor and 
intelligence testing as well as therapeutic monitoring (SA, tyrosine, NTBC in 
blood).
CONCLUSION: Based on the data from 21 centres treating 168 patients we were able 
to characterize current practice and clinical experience in Tyr 1. This 
information could form the basis for clinical practice recommendations, however 
further prospective data are required to underpin some of the recommendations.

DOI: 10.1186/s13023-014-0107-7
PMCID: PMC4347563
PMID: 25081276 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1074. Int J Pediatr Otorhinolaryngol. 2014 Oct;78(10):1611-7. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijporl.2014.07.005. Epub 2014 Jul 12.

Unilateral hearing loss is associated with a negative effect on language scores 
in adolescents.

Fischer C(1), Lieu J(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology, Washington University School of Medicine, St. 
Louis, MO, United States.
(2)Department of Otolaryngology, Washington University School of Medicine, St. 
Louis, MO, United States. Electronic address: lieuj@wustl.edu.

OBJECTIVE: To determine if adolescents with unilateral hearing loss (UHL) 
demonstrate worse language skills than their siblings with normal hearing (NH).
DESIGN: Case-control study of 12-17-year-old adolescents with UHL (20 cases) 
compared with sibling controls with NH (13 controls).
METHODS: Scores on the oral portion of the Oral and Written Language Scales 
(OWLS) and the Clinical Evaluation of Language Fundamentals (CELF) were the 
primary outcome measure. Wechsler's Abbreviated Scales of Intelligence (WASI) 
scores were also used as an outcome measure.
RESULTS: Adolescents with UHL demonstrated worse overall and expressive language 
scores than controls, (98 vs. 114, P=0.001; 100 vs. 114, P=0.006) and had 
significantly lower full scale (98 vs. 112, P=0.017), verbal (101 vs. 113, 
P=0.032), and performance IQ (95 vs. 107, P=0.037).
CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that UHL in adolescents is associated with a 
negative effect on standardized language scores and IQ. They also demonstrate 
that the developmental gap between children with UHL and children with NH does 
not resolve as the children progress into adolescence and may even widen as the 
children grow older. Therefore, these results strongly encourage implementation 
of early intervention for children with UHL to prevent speech-language delays. 
More studies in adolescents are warranted to evaluate educational outcomes.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijporl.2014.07.005
PMCID: PMC4180427
PMID: 25081604 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1075. J Am Coll Surg. 2014 Sep;219(3):354-64. doi: 10.1016/j.jamcollsurg.2014.03.052. 
Epub 2014 May 10.

Retained surgical sponges: findings from incident reports and a cost-benefit 
analysis of radiofrequency technology.

Williams TL(1), Tung DK(2), Steelman VM(3), Chang PK(4), Szekendi MK(2).

Author information:
(1)University HealthSystem Consortium, Chicago, IL. Electronic address: 
williams@uhc.edu.
(2)University HealthSystem Consortium, Chicago, IL.
(3)University of Iowa College of Nursing, Iowa City, IA.
(4)University of Kentucky, UK HealthCare, Lexington, KY.

Comment in
    J Urol. 2015 Jun;193(6):2019.

BACKGROUND: Retained surgical items (RSIs) are serious events with a high 
potential to harm patients. It is estimated that as many as 1 in 5,500 
operations result in an RSI, and sponges are most commonly involved. The adverse 
outcomes, additional medical care needed, and medico-legal costs associated with 
these events are substantial. The objective of this analysis was to advance our 
understanding of the occurrence of RSIs, the methods of prevention, and the 
costs involved.
STUDY DESIGN: Incident reports entered into the University HealthSystem 
Consortium (UHC) Safety Intelligence database on incorrect surgical counts and 
RSIs were analyzed. Reported cases of retained surgical sponges at organizations 
that use radiofrequency (RF) technology and those that do not were compared. A 
cost-benefit analysis on adopting RF technology was conducted.
RESULTS: Five organizations that implemented RF technology between 2008 and 2012 
collectively demonstrated a 93% reduction in the rate of reported retained 
surgical sponges. By comparison, there was a 77% reduction in the rate of 
retained sponges at 5 organizations that do not use RF technology. The UHC 
cost-benefit analysis showed that the savings in x-rays and time spent in the 
operating room and in the medical and legal costs that were avoided outweighed 
the expenses involved in using RF technology.
CONCLUSIONS: Current standards for manual counting of sponges and the use of 
radiographs are not sufficient to prevent the occurrence of retained surgical 
sponges; our data support the use of adjunct technology. We recommend that 
hospitals evaluate and consider the use of an adjunct technology.

Copyright © 2014 American College of Surgeons. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jamcollsurg.2014.03.052
PMID: 25081938 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1076. J Adolesc. 2014 Aug;37(6):807-15. doi: 10.1016/j.adolescence.2014.05.009. Epub 
2014 Jun 14.

Unique effects of different components of trait emotional intelligence in 
traditional bullying and cyberbullying.

Baroncelli A(1), Ciucci E(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, University of Florence, Via di San Salvi 12, 
Complesso di San Salvi Padiglione 26, 50135 Florence, Italy. Electronic address: 
a.baroncelli@unifi.it.
(2)Department of Education and Psychology, University of Florence, Via di San 
Salvi 12, Complesso di San Salvi Padiglione 26, 50135 Florence, Italy. 
Electronic address: enrica.ciucci@unifi.it.

This study investigated whether different components of trait emotional 
intelligence (or trait emotional self-efficacy) were uniquely related to 
traditional bullying and cyberbullying in a sample of 529 preadolescents (mean 
age of 12 years and 7 months), while controlling for the other forms of 
bullying/victimization. Binary logistic regressions showed that the dimension of 
emotional intelligence concerning the regulation and use of emotions was 
negatively related both to traditional bullying and cyberbullying; however, this 
association did not emerge when traditional bullying was controlled for 
cyberbullying, whilst it still emerged when cyberbullying was controlled for 
traditional bullying and both forms of victimization. Differently, the 
dimensions concerning appraisal of own and others' emotions were not deficient 
in children performing bullying and/or cyberbullying behaviors. Despite high 
co-occurrence between traditional and electronic bullying, our results suggested 
that these two forms are distinct phenomena, involving different personality 
traits. Implications for interventions are discussed.

Copyright © 2014 The Foundation for Professionals in Services for Adolescents. 
Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.adolescence.2014.05.009
PMID: 25086457 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1077. Res Dev Disabil. 2014 Nov;35(11):2751-5. doi: 10.1016/j.ridd.2014.07.010. Epub 
2014 Aug 2.

Comparison of urinary oxidative biomarkers in Iranian children with autism.

Ranjbar A(1), Rashedi V(2), Rezaei M(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Toxicology and Pharmacology, School of Pharmacy, Hamadan 
University of Medical Sciences, Hamadan, Iran.
(2)Iranian Research Center on Aging, University of Social Welfare and 
Rehabilitation Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(3)Faculty of Rehabilitation Sciences, Hamadan University of Medical Sciences & 
Health Services, Hamadan, Iran. Electronic address: m_r_st@yahoo.com.

Autism is a complex neurodevelopmental disorder usually presents in early 
childhood and thought to be influenced by genetic and environmental factors. 
Individuals with autism vary widely in abilities, intelligence, and behaviors. 
It is common for children with autism to exhibit eating disorders and some have 
preferences for soft and sweetened food making them susceptible to caries. 
Furthermore, a wide spectrum of medical and behavioral symptoms exhibited by 
children with autism makes routine dental care very difficult. Intellectual 
disability is evident in approximately 70% of individuals with autism and most 
psychiatric disorders, including autism, are associated with increased oxidative 
stress. 29 subjects diagnosed with autism, in the age group of 6 to 12 years, 
were a part of the study. Furturemore, 24 normal healthy siblings of same age 
group were taken as the control group. The present study aimed to evaluate 
oxidative stress biomarkers such as urinary total antioxidant concentration 
(TAC), catalase activity (CAT) and total thiol molecules (TTM). The results 
showed the autism group have significantly higher CAT activity and concomitant 
lower TAC and TTM concentration in comparison with control group. The results 
are discussed in relation to an increased vulnerability to oxidative damage, 
which may contribute to the development and clinical manifestation of symptoms 
of autism.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ridd.2014.07.010
PMID: 25086736 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1078. Nutr Metab (Lond). 2014 Jul 29;11:34. doi: 10.1186/1743-7075-11-34. eCollection 
2014.

The intelligence paradox; will ET get the metabolic syndrome? Lessons from and 
for Earth.

Nunn AV(1), Guy GW(2), Bell JD(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, University of Reading, Whiteknights, Reading, Berks RG6 
6AP, UK.
(2)GW pharmaceuticals, Porton Down, Salisbury, Wiltshire SP4 0JQ, UK.
(3)Metabolic and Molecular Imaging Group, MRC Clinical Sciences Centre, Imperial 
College London, Hammersmith Hospital, London W12 0NN, UK.

Mankind is facing an unprecedented health challenge in the current pandemic of 
obesity and diabetes. We propose that this is the inevitable (and predictable) 
consequence of the evolution of intelligence, which itself could be an 
expression of life being an information system driven by entropy. Because of its 
ability to make life more adaptable and robust, intelligence evolved as an 
efficient adaptive response to the stresses arising from an ever-changing 
environment. These adaptive responses are encapsulated by the epiphenomena of 
"hormesis", a phenomenon we believe to be central to the evolution of 
intelligence and essential for the maintenance of optimal physiological function 
and health. Thus, as intelligence evolved, it would eventually reach a cognitive 
level with the ability to control its environment through technology and have 
the ability remove all stressors. In effect, it would act to remove the very 
hormetic factors that had driven its evolution. Mankind may have reached this 
point, creating an environmental utopia that has reduced the very stimuli 
necessary for optimal health and the evolution of intelligence - "the 
intelligence paradox". One of the hallmarks of this paradox is of course the 
rising incidence in obesity, diabetes and the metabolic syndrome. This leads to 
the conclusion that wherever life evolves, here on earth or in another part of 
the galaxy, the "intelligence paradox" would be the inevitable side-effect of 
the evolution of intelligence. ET may not need to just "phone home" but may also 
need to "phone the local gym". This suggests another possible reason to explain 
Fermi's paradox; Enrico Fermi, the famous physicist, suggested in the 1950s that 
if extra-terrestrial intelligence was so prevalent, which was a common belief at 
the time, then where was it? Our suggestion is that if advanced life has got 
going elsewhere in our galaxy, it can't afford to explore the galaxy because it 
has to pay its healthcare costs.

DOI: 10.1186/1743-7075-11-34
PMCID: PMC4118160
PMID: 25089149


1079. Dev Sci. 2014 Jul;17(4):506-24. doi: 10.1111/desc.12144.

Cognitive components of a mathematical processing network in 9-year-old 
children.

Szűcs D, Devine A, Soltesz F, Nobes A, Gabriel F.

We determined how various cognitive abilities, including several measures of a 
proposed domain-specific number sense, relate to mathematical competence in 
nearly 100 9-year-old children with normal reading skill. Results are consistent 
with an extended number processing network and suggest that important processing 
nodes of this network are phonological processing, verbal knowledge, 
visuo-spatial short-term and working memory, spatial ability and general 
executive functioning. The model was highly specific to predicting arithmetic 
performance. There were no strong relations between mathematical achievement and 
verbal short-term and working memory, sustained attention, response inhibition, 
finger knowledge and symbolic number comparison performance. Non-verbal 
intelligence measures were also non-significant predictors when added to our 
model. Number sense variables were non-significant predictors in the model and 
they were also non-significant predictors when entered into regression analysis 
with only a single visuo-spatial WM measure. Number sense variables were 
predicted by sustained attention. Results support a network theory of 
mathematical competence in primary school children and falsify the importance of 
a proposed modular 'number sense'. We suggest an 'executive memory function 
centric' model of mathematical processing. Mapping a complex processing network 
requires that studies consider the complex predictor space of mathematics rather 
than just focusing on a single or a few explanatory factors.

DOI: 10.1111/desc.12144
PMCID: PMC4253132
PMID: 25089322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1080. Sensors (Basel). 2014 Jul 31;14(8):13955-79. doi: 10.3390/s140813955.

Ambient agents: embedded agents for remote control and monitoring using the 
PANGEA platform.

Villarrubia G(1), De Paz JF(2), Bajo J(3), Corchado JM(4).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Informática y Automática, Universidad de Salamanca, Plaza de 
la Merced s/n, 37008 Salamanca, Spain. gvg@usal.es.
(2)Departamento de Informática y Automática, Universidad de Salamanca, Plaza de 
la Merced s/n, 37008 Salamanca, Spain. fcofds@usal.es.
(3)Departamento de Inteligencia Artificial, Universidad Politécnica de Madrid, 
Campus de Montegancedo s/n, Boadilla del Monte, 28600 Madrid, Spain. 
jbajo@fi.upm.es.
(4)Departamento de Informática y Automática, Universidad de Salamanca, Plaza de 
la Merced s/n, 37008 Salamanca, Spain. corchado@usal.es.

Ambient intelligence has advanced significantly during the last few years. The 
incorporation of image processing and artificial intelligence techniques have 
opened the possibility for such aspects as pattern recognition, thus allowing 
for a better adaptation of these systems. This study presents a new model of an 
embedded agent especially designed to be implemented in sensing devices with 
resource constraints. This new model of an agent is integrated within the PANGEA 
(Platform for the Automatic Construction of Organiztions of Intelligent Agents) 
platform, an organizational-based platform, defining a new sensor role in the 
system and aimed at providing contextual information and interacting with the 
environment. A case study was developed over the PANGEA platform and designed 
using different agents and sensors responsible for providing user support at 
home in the event of incidents or emergencies. The system presented in the case 
study incorporates agents in Arduino hardware devices with recognition modules 
and illuminated bands; it also incorporates IP cameras programmed for automatic 
tracking, which can connect remotely in the event of emergencies. The user wears 
a bracelet, which contains a simple vibration sensor that can receive 
notifications about the emergency situation.

DOI: 10.3390/s140813955
PMCID: PMC4178994
PMID: 25090416 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1081. J Pers Assess. 2015;97(2):209-20. doi: 10.1080/00223891.2014.938750. Epub 2014 
Aug 4.

French validation of the overexcitability questionnaire 2: psychometric 
properties and factorial structure.

Botella M(1), Fürst G, Myszkowski N, Storme M, Pereira Da Costa M, Luminet O.

Author information:
(1)a Laboratory Adaptation Work and Individual , Paris Descartes University , 
Paris , France.

Overexcitability corresponds to an overall response to stimulations in 5 
domains: psychomotor, sensual, intellectual, imaginational, and emotional. The 
aim of this study was to develop a French version of the Overexcitability 
Questionnaire 2 (OEQ2) and to expand its psychometric properties. Two studies 
were conducted: one with a sample of 474 adolescents and another with a sample 
of 436 adults. Internal consistency, factorial structure, and validity 
(correlations with intelligence, personality, and alexithymia) were examined. 
The French OEQ2 showed satisfactory psychometric properties, thus advocating for 
its use in further research on overexcitability and in clinical practice.

DOI: 10.1080/00223891.2014.938750
PMID: 25090583 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1082. Sleep Med. 2014 Sep;15(9):1089-93. doi: 10.1016/j.sleep.2014.05.008. Epub 2014 
May 23.

Sleep disturbances in preschool age children with cerebral palsy: a 
questionnaire study.

Romeo DM(1), Brogna C(1), Musto E(1), Baranello G(2), Pagliano E(2), Casalino 
T(2), Ricci D(1), Mallardi M(1), Sivo S(1), Cota F(3), Battaglia D(1), Bruni 
O(4), Mercuri E(5).

Author information:
(1)Paediatric Neurology Unit, Catholic University, Rome, Italy.
(2)Developmental Neurology Unit, C. Besta Neurological Institute Foundation, 
Milan, Italy.
(3)Neonatal Unit, Catholic University, Rome, Italy.
(4)Centre for Pediatric Sleep Disorders, Department of Social and Developmental 
Psychology - Sapienza University, Rome, Italy.
(5)Paediatric Neurology Unit, Catholic University, Rome, Italy. Electronic 
address: mercuri@rm.unicatt.it.

OBJECTIVES: The study aimed to analyze (i) the prevalence of sleep disorders in 
pre-school children with cerebral palsy (CP) using the Sleep Disturbance Scale 
for Children (SDSC), (ii) the possible association with motor, cognitive and 
behavioral problems, and (iii) the possible differences with typically 
developing children matched for age and gender.
METHODS: One-hundred children with CP (age range: 3-5 years, mean: 3.8 years) 
were assessed using the SDSC, the Gross Motor Function Classification System 
(GMFCS), the Wechsler Preschool and Primary Scale of Intelligence, and the Child 
Behaviour Check List (CBCL) to assess sleep, motor, cognitive, and behavioral 
problems, respectively. Further 100 healthy children matched for age and sex 
were assessed using the SDSC.
RESULTS: An abnormal total sleep score was found in 13% of children with CP 
while 35% had an abnormal score on at least one SDSC factor. SDSC total score 
was significantly associated with pathological internalizing scores on CBCL and 
active epilepsy on multivariate analysis. CP group reported higher significant 
median scores on SDSC total, parasomnias, and difficulty in initiating and 
maintaining sleep factors.
CONCLUSIONS: In pre-school children sleep disorders are more common in children 
with CP than in healthy control group and are often associated with epilepsy and 
behavioral problems.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.sleep.2014.05.008
PMID: 25091533 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1083. Diabetes Care. 2014 Nov;37(11):2982-8. doi: 10.2337/dc14-0715. Epub 2014 Aug 4.

Cognitive function and the risk for diabetes among young men.

Twig G(1), Gluzman I(2), Tirosh A(3), Gerstein HC(4), Yaniv G(5), Afek A(6), 
Derazne E(2), Tzur D(7), Karasik A(8), Gordon B(2), Fruchter E(2), Lubin G(2), 
Rudich A(9), Cukierman-Yaffe T(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine B, Sheba Medical Center, Tel Hashomer, Israel Dr. 
Pinchas Bornstein Talpiot Medical Leadership Program, Sheba Medical Center, Tel 
Hashomer, Israel Israel Defense Forces Medical Corps, Israel 
gilad.twig@gmail.com.
(2)Israel Defense Forces Medical Corps, Israel Sackler School of Medicine, Tel 
Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel.
(3)Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes and Hypertension, Brigham and Women's 
Hospital, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, MA.
(4)Division of Endocrinology & Metabolism and Population Health Research 
Institute, McMaster University and Hamilton Health Sciences, Hamilton, Ontario, 
Canada.
(5)Israel Defense Forces Medical Corps, Israel Department of Radiology and 
Imaging, Sheba Medical Center, Tel Hashomer, Israel.
(6)Sackler School of Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel Israel 
Ministry of Health, Jerusalem, Israel.
(7)Israel Defense Forces Medical Corps, Israel.
(8)Sackler School of Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel Department 
of Endocrinology, Sheba Medical Center, Tel Hashomer, Israel.
(9)Department of Clinical Biochemistry and Pharmacology and the National 
Institute of Biotechnology in the Negev, Ben Gurion University of the Negev, 
Beer Sheva, Israel.
(10)Sackler School of Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel Department 
of Endocrinology, Sheba Medical Center, Tel Hashomer, Israel Gertner Institute 
for Epidemiology, Tel Hashomer, Israel.

OBJECTIVE: Diabetes is a risk factor for an accelerated rate of cognitive 
decline and dementia. However, the relationship between cognitive function and 
the subsequent development of diabetes is unclear.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: We conducted a historical-prospective cohort study 
merging data collected at premilitary recruitment assessment with information 
collected at the Staff Periodic Examination Center of the Israeli Army Medical 
Corps. Included were men aged 25 years or older without a history of diabetes at 
the beginning of follow-up with available data regarding their general 
intelligence score (GIS), a comprehensive measure of cognitive function, at age 
17 years.
RESULTS: Among 35,500 men followed for a median of 5.5 years, 770 new cases of 
diabetes were diagnosed. After adjustment for age, participants in the lowest 
GIS category had a 2.6-fold greater risk for developing diabetes compared with 
those in the highest GIS category. In multivariable analysis adjusted for age, 
BMI, fasting plasma glucose, sociogenetic variables, and lifestyle risk factors, 
those in the lowest GIS category had a twofold greater risk for incident 
diabetes when compared with the highest GIS category (hazard ratio 2.1 [95% CI 
1.5-3.1]; P < 0.001). Additionally, participants in the lowest GIS category 
developed diabetes at a mean age of 39.5 ± 4.7 years and those in the highest 
GIS group at a mean age of 41.5 ± 5.1 years (P for comparison 0.042).
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates that in addition to a potential causal link 
between diabetes and enhanced cognitive decline, lower cognitive function at 
late adolescence is independently associated with an elevated risk for future 
diabetes.

© 2014 by the American Diabetes Association. Readers may use this article as 
long as the work is properly cited, the use is educational and not for profit, 
and the work is not altered.

DOI: 10.2337/dc14-0715
PMID: 25092683 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1084. Sensors (Basel). 2014 Aug 4;14(8):14070-105. doi: 10.3390/s140814070.

A cloud-based Internet of Things platform for ambient assisted living.

Cubo J(1), Nieto A(2), Pimentel E(3).

Author information:
(1)Universidad de Málaga, Departamento de Lenguajes y Ciencias de la 
Computación, Campus de Teatinos, 29071 Málaga, Spain. cubo@lcc.uma.es.
(2)Universidad de Málaga, Departamento de Lenguajes y Ciencias de la 
Computación, Campus de Teatinos, 29071 Málaga, Spain. adrian@lcc.uma.es.
(3)Universidad de Málaga, Departamento de Lenguajes y Ciencias de la 
Computación, Campus de Teatinos, 29071 Málaga, Spain. ernesto@lcc.uma.es.

A common feature of ambient intelligence is that many objects are 
inter-connected and act in unison, which is also a challenge in the Internet of 
Things. There has been a shift in research towards integrating both concepts, 
considering the Internet of Things as representing the future of computing and 
communications. However, the efficient combination and management of 
heterogeneous things or devices in the ambient intelligence domain is still a 
tedious task, and it presents crucial challenges. Therefore, to appropriately 
manage the inter-connection of diverse devices in these systems requires: (1) 
specifying and efficiently implementing the devices (e.g., as services); (2) 
handling and verifying their heterogeneity and composition; and (3) 
standardizing and managing their data, so as to tackle large numbers of systems 
together, avoiding standalone applications on local servers. To overcome these 
challenges, this paper proposes a platform to manage the integration and 
behavior-aware orchestration of heterogeneous devices as services, stored and 
accessed via the cloud, with the following contributions: (i) we describe a 
lightweight model to specify the behavior of devices, to determine the order of 
the sequence of exchanged messages during the composition of devices; (ii) we 
define a common architecture using a service-oriented standard environment, to 
integrate heterogeneous devices by means of their interfaces, via a gateway, and 
to orchestrate them according to their behavior; (iii) we design a framework 
based on cloud computing technology, connecting the gateway in charge of 
acquiring the data from the devices with a cloud platform, to remotely access 
and monitor the data at run-time and react to emergency situations; and (iv) we 
implement and generate a novel cloud-based IoT platform of behavior-aware 
devices as services for ambient intelligence systems, validating the whole 
approach in real scenarios related to a specific ambient assisted living 
application.

DOI: 10.3390/s140814070
PMCID: PMC4179061
PMID: 25093343 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1085. Curr Biol. 2014 Aug 4;24(15):R681-3. doi: 10.1016/j.cub.2014.06.012.

A strong link between speed of visual discrimination and cognitive ageing.

Ritchie SJ(1), Tucker-Drob EM(2), Deary IJ(3).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, The University of 
Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK; Department of Psychology, The University of Edinburgh, 
Edinburgh, UK. Electronic address: stuart.ritchie@ed.ac.uk.
(2)Department of Psychology, The University of Texas, Austin, TX, USA.
(3)Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, The University of 
Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK; Department of Psychology, The University of Edinburgh, 
Edinburgh, UK.

Attempts to explain people's differences in intelligence and cognitive ageing 
often hypothesize that they are founded substantially upon differences in speed 
of information processing. To date, there are no studies that fulfill the design 
criteria necessary to test this idea, namely: having a large sample size; being 
sufficiently longitudinal; and using measures of processing efficiency that have 
a tractable biological basis, are grounded in theory, and are not themselves 
complex or based on motor response speed. We measured visual 'inspection time', 
a psychophysical indicator of the efficiency of the early stages of perceptual 
processing, in a large (n = 628 with full data), narrow-age sample at mean ages 
70, 73, and 76 years. We included concurrent tests of intelligence. A latent 
growth curve model assessed the extent to which inspection time change is 
coupled with change in intelligence. Results showed a moderate correlation (r = 
0.460) between inspection time performance and intelligence, and a strong 
correlation between change in inspection time and change in intelligence from 70 
to 76 (r = 0.779). These results support the processing speed theory of 
cognitive ageing. They go beyond cross-sectional correlation to show that 
cognitive change is accompanied by changes in basic visual information 
processing as we age.

Copyright © 2014 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cub.2014.06.012
PMCID: PMC4123160
PMID: 25093556 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1086. AIMS Public Health. 2014 Aug 7;1(3):147-159. doi: 
10.3934/publichealth.2014.3.147. eCollection 2014.

Sociomoral Reasoning in Adults with ADHD: A Pilot Study.

Thomason KE(1), Gudjonsson G(2), German E(3), Morris R(2), Young S(4).

Author information:
(1)Cardiff and Vale UHB, Wales, CF14 4XW, UK.
(2)King's College London, Institute of Psychiatry, WC2R 2LS, UK.
(3)King's College Hospital, London, SE1 9RT, UK.
(4)Imperial College London, SW7 2AZ, UK.

Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) is frequently linked with 
antisocial behaviour, yet less is known about its relationship with sociomoral 
reasoning, and the possible mediating effect of intelligence. A pilot study was 
designed to investigate the relationship between antisocial personality traits, 
intelligence and sociomoral reasoning in adults with ADHD. Twenty two adults 
with ADHD and 21 healthy controls, matched for age, gender and IQ completed a 
battery of measures including the National Adult Reading Test, Gough 
Socialisation Scale and Sociomoral Reflection Measure-Short Form. There was no 
difference between the groups and levels of sociomoral reasoning, despite the 
ADHD group reporting greater antisocial personality traits. Sociomoral reasoning 
was positively correlated with intelligence. Results from a hierarchical 
multiple regressions indicated that both antisocial traits and IQ were 
significant predictors of sociomoral reasoning, with IQ proving the most 
powerful predictor. Whilst antisocial personality traits may explain some of the 
variance in levels of sociomoral reasoning, a diagnosis of ADHD does not appear 
to hinder the development of mature moral reasoning. Intellectual functioning 
appears to facilitate the development of sociomoral reasoning. A further 
analysis showed that both ADHD and low sociomoral reasoning were significant 
predictors of antisocial traits. The current findings have important treatment 
implications.

DOI: 10.3934/publichealth.2014.3.147
PMCID: PMC5689788
PMID: 29546083


1087. Tohoku J Exp Med. 2014 Aug;233(4):257-64. doi: 10.1620/tjem.233.257.

Carotid artery stenting ameliorates the cognitive impairment in patients with 
leukoaraiosis, the ischemic change of cerebral white matter.

Sun Q(1), Xia Z, Qu C, Ruan X, Li J, Cong L, Zheng X, Du Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Shandong Provincial Hospital affiliated to Shandong 
University.

Leukoaraiosis (LA) is a leading cause of gait disturbance in the elderly and 
well known as a type of cerebrovascular diseases. LA is mainly caused by the 
focal ischemic damage in cerebral white matter. Cognitive impairment in patients 
with LA is difficult to treat. Carotid artery stenting (CAS) has been reported 
to improve the cognitive function in patients with cognitive impairment. 
However, whether CAS can ameliorate the cognitive impairment in patients with LA 
remains unknown. To address this problem, we prospectively enrolled 105 LA 
patients with carotid stenosis and 206 healthy subjects, who are free of carotid 
artery stenosis and brain diseases or injuries, as the control. 
Neuropsychological functions were tested in these LA patients before and after 
1-, 6- and 12-month CAS, and compared with the data of control subjects. 
Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) and Wechsler Adult Intelligence 
Scale-Revised China (WAIS-RC) scores were lower in LA patients than those in 
healthy controls (P < 0.05), indicating the cognitive impairment in the LA 
patients. Compared with the scores before CAS, there is a time-dependent 
increase in MMSE and WAIS-RC scores after 1-, 6- and 12-month CAS (P < 0.05). 
Moreover, CAS treatment reduced Clinical Dementia Rating scale in LA patients. 
The cognitive impairment of LA patients with carotid stenosis was severe, but 
their cognitive impairment was ameliorated with carotid stenosis (P < 0.01). 
Thus, CAS can improve cognitive function of the LA patients with carotid 
stenosis.

DOI: 10.1620/tjem.233.257
PMID: 25098321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1088. Arq Neuropsiquiatr. 2014 Aug;72(8):603-8. doi: 10.1590/0004-282x20140099.

Auditory p300 event-related potentials in children with Sydenham's chorea.

Ozdemir HH(1), Demiroren K(2), Demir CF(3), Serin MH(3).

Author information:
(1)Dicle University, Diyarbak?r, Turkey.
(2)Van Yüzüncü Y?l Universtity, Van, Turkey.
(3)Firat University, Elaz??, Turkey.

P300 event-related potentials (ERPs), objective measures related to cognitive 
processing, have not been studied in Sydenham's chorea (SC) patients.
PURPOSE: To assess cognitive impairment with P300 ERPs.
METHOD: Seventeen patients with SC and 20 unaffected healthy children were 
included. Stanford-Binet test was used for psychometric assessment, and odd-ball 
paradigm was used for auditory ERPs.
RESULTS: There was no significant difference in P300 latencies between the 
SC-pretreatment group, SC-posttreatment group and control group (p>0.05). Mean 
interpeak latencies in SC-pretreatment group and SC-posttreatment group showed 
significant prolongation compared with the control group (p<0.05). Mean 
interpeak latencies in SC-posttreatment group were significantly decreased 
compared with SC-pretreatment group (p<0.05). Compared to controls, patients did 
not show significant difference in Stanford-Binet intelligence examination.
CONCLUSION: This report suggests that interpeak latencies and amplitudes of P300 
ERPs could be useful for detecting and monitoring cognitive impairment in SC 
patients.

DOI: 10.1590/0004-282x20140099
PMID: 25098477 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1089. Dev Sci. 2015 May;18(3):351-72. doi: 10.1111/desc.12216. Epub 2014 Aug 6.

Brain hyper-connectivity and operation-specific deficits during arithmetic 
problem solving in children with developmental dyscalculia.

Rosenberg-Lee M(1), Ashkenazi S, Chen T, Young CB, Geary DC, Menon V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry & Behavioral Sciences, Stanford University School of 
Medicine, USA.

Developmental dyscalculia (DD) is marked by specific deficits in processing 
numerical and mathematical information despite normal intelligence (IQ) and 
reading ability. We examined how brain circuits used by young children with DD 
to solve simple addition and subtraction problems differ from those used by 
typically developing (TD) children who were matched on age, IQ, reading ability, 
and working memory. Children with DD were slower and less accurate during 
problem solving than TD children, and were especially impaired on their ability 
to solve subtraction problems. Children with DD showed significantly greater 
activity in multiple parietal, occipito-temporal and prefrontal cortex regions 
while solving addition and subtraction problems. Despite poorer performance 
during subtraction, children with DD showed greater activity in multiple 
intra-parietal sulcus (IPS) and superior parietal lobule subdivisions in the 
dorsal posterior parietal cortex as well as fusiform gyrus in the ventral 
occipito-temporal cortex. Critically, effective connectivity analyses revealed 
hyper-connectivity, rather than reduced connectivity, between the IPS and 
multiple brain systems including the lateral fronto-parietal and default mode 
networks in children with DD during both addition and subtraction. These 
findings suggest the IPS and its functional circuits are a major locus of 
dysfunction during both addition and subtraction problem solving in DD, and that 
inappropriate task modulation and hyper-connectivity, rather than 
under-engagement and under-connectivity, are the neural mechanisms underlying 
problem solving difficulties in children with DD. We discuss our findings in the 
broader context of multiple levels of analysis and performance issues inherent 
in neuroimaging studies of typical and atypical development.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/desc.12216
PMCID: PMC4320038
PMID: 25098903 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1090. Am J Public Health. 2014 Sep;104 Suppl 4(Suppl 4):S529-31. doi: 
10.2105/AJPH.2014.302141.

Improving trends in gender disparities in the Department of Veterans Affairs: 
2008-2013.

Whitehead AM(1), Czarnogorski M, Wright SM, Hayes PM, Haskell SG.

Author information:
(1)Alison M. Whitehead, Maggie Czarnogorski, Patricia M. Hayes, and Sally G. 
Haskell are with Women's Health Services, Department of Veterans Affairs, 
Washington, DC. Steve M. Wright is with Office of Analytics and Business 
Intelligence, Department of Veterans Affairs. S. G. Haskell is also with Yale 
School of Medicine, New Haven, CT.

Increasing numbers of women veterans using Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) 
services has contributed to the need for equitable, high-quality care for women. 
The VA has evaluated performance measure data by gender since 2006. In 2008, the 
VA launched a 5-year women's health redesign, and, in 2011, gender disparity 
improvement was included on leadership performance plans. We examined data from 
VA Office of Analytics and Business Intelligence quarterly gender reports for 
trends in gender disparities in gender-neutral performance measures from 2008 to 
2013. Through reporting of data by gender, leadership involvement, electronic 
reminders, and population management dashboards, VA has seen a decreasing trend 
in gender inequities on most Health Effectiveness Data and Information Set 
performance measures.

DOI: 10.2105/AJPH.2014.302141
PMCID: PMC4151885
PMID: 25100416 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1091. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 2015 May;47(5):803-11. doi: 10.1093/ejcts/ezu299. Epub 
2014 Aug 6.

Neuropsychological performance of school-aged children after staged surgical 
palliation of hypoplastic left heart syndrome.

Bergemann A(1), Hansen JH(2), Rotermann I(1), Voges I(1), Scheewe J(3), 
Otto-Morris C(4), Geiger F(5), Kramer HH(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Congenital Heart Disease and Pediatric Cardiology, University 
Hospital Schleswig-Holstein, Kiel, Germany.
(2)Department of Congenital Heart Disease and Pediatric Cardiology, University 
Hospital Schleswig-Holstein, Kiel, Germany jan.hansen@uk-sh.de.
(3)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, University Hospital Schleswig-Holstein, 
Kiel, Germany.
(4)Department of Paediatric Neurology, University Hospital Schleswig-Holstein, 
Kiel, Germany.
(5)Department of General Paediatrics, University Hospital Schleswig-Holstein, 
Kiel, Germany.

OBJECTIVES: Despite advances in perioperative management during surgical 
treatment of hypoplastic left heart syndrome (HLHS), patients are still at risk 
for adverse neurodevelopmental sequelae including cognitive dysfunction. This 
study aimed to assess a neuropsychological profile of HLHS patients at school 
age who underwent the Norwood operation between 1996 and 2003 with deep 
hypothermic circulatory arrest (DHCA) or antegrade selective cerebral perfusion 
(ASCP), respectively.
METHODS: Forty HLHS patients (DHCA: n = 11 and ASCP: n = 29) were compared with 
healthy controls (DHCA controls: n = 10 and ASCP controls: n = 24), recruited 
according to age, sex and socioeconomic status. Neuropsychological assessment 
included non-verbal intelligence (IQ norms) and raw score measures of visual and 
verbal short- and long-term memory as well as executive functions, processing 
speed and concentration. Neuropsychological data were correlated with bypass and 
circulatory arrest times.
RESULTS: Compared with control subjects, both patient groups had average 
non-verbal intelligence scores [DHCA: 102 (72-112) and ASCP: 92 (70-127)], but 
showed reduced long-term memory capacities and decreased executive performance 
as well as reduced processing speed. DHCA patients, furthermore, had a reduced 
visual attention span, and ASCP patients scored less on the verbal learning task 
than controls. The duration of DHCA and cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) was 
associated with visual executive functions and short-term memory. In the DHCA 
group, the duration of DHCA was correlated with the time to complete the Trail 
Making Test A measuring visual executive functions (Spearman rank correlation, 
rS = 0.867, P = 0.018). In patients provided with ASCP, the cumulated CPB 
duration was negatively correlated with the score of the block span test 
measuring visual short memory (rS = -0.476, P = 0.020) as well as with the copy 
score of the Rey Figure assessing visual executive functions (rS = -0.399, P = 
0.032).
CONCLUSIONS: School-age children with HLHS who underwent the Norwood procedure 
either with DHCA or ASCP show cognitive impairments compared with healthy 
controls. Our data indicate deficits in specific cognitive domains such as 
memory, executive functions and processing speed rather than basic intellectual 
dysfunction.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
European Association for Cardio-Thoracic Surgery. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1093/ejcts/ezu299
PMID: 25100716 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1092. Colomb Med (Cali). 2014 Jun 30;45(2):85-7. eCollection 2014 Apr-Jun.

Mucopolysaccharidosis type VI (Maroteaux-Lamy syndrome) in the pre-Columbian 
culture of Colombia.

Pachajoa H(1), Rodriguez CA(2).

Author information:
(1)Centro de Investigaciones en Anomalías Congénitas y Enfermedades Raras. 
Universidad Icesi, Cali, Colombia.
(2)Profesor Titular, Facultad de Salud, Universidad del Valle, Cali, Colombia.

Mucopolysaccharidosis type VI or Maroteaux Lamy syndrome is an autosomal 
recessive lysosomal storage disorder resulting from a deficiency of 
arylsulfatase B, the clinical features include short stature, 
hepatosplenomegaly, dysostosis multiplex, stiff joints, corneal clouding, 
cardiac abnormalities, and facial dysmorphism, with intelligence usually normal. 
We present evidence of the possible existence of Maroteaux Lamy syndrome in 
pre-Columbian pottery 2000 years ago, in the Colombo-Ecuadorian Pacific coast of 
the Tumaco-Tolita culture.

Publisher: La mucopolisacaridosis tipo VI o síndrome de Maroteaux Lamy es una 
enfermedad de depósito lisosomal autosómica recesiva que resulta de una 
deficiencia de la enzima arilsulfatasa B, las características clínicas incluyen 
talla baja, hepatoesplenomegalia, disostosis múltiple, rigidez en las 
articulaciones, opacidad corneal, anomalías cardíacas, y dismorfismo facial, con 
inteligencia generalmente normal. Presentamos evidencia de la posible existencia 
de síndrome de Maroteaux Lamy en la cerámica precolombina desde hace 2000 años, 
en la costa pacífica colombo-ecuatoriana pertenecientes a la cultura 
Tumaco-Tolita.

PMCID: PMC4123588
PMID: 25100895 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: The authors declare that 
there is no conflict of interest that could be perceived as prejudicing the 
impartiality of the information reported.


1093. Front Microbiol. 2014 Jul 22;5:379. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2014.00379. eCollection 
2014.

Macromolecular networks and intelligence in microorganisms.

Westerhoff HV(1), Brooks AN(2), Simeonidis E(3), García-Contreras R(4), He F(5), 
Boogerd FC(6), Jackson VJ(7), Goncharuk V(8), Kolodkin A(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Cell Physiology, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam 
Amsterdam, Netherlands ; Manchester Centre for Integrative Systems Biology, The 
University of Manchester Manchester, UK ; Synthetic Systems Biology, University 
of Amsterdam Amsterdam, Netherlands.
(2)Institute for Systems Biology Seattle, WA, USA ; Molecular and Cellular 
Biology Program, University of Washington Seattle, WA, USA.
(3)Institute for Systems Biology Seattle, WA, USA ; Luxembourg Centre for 
Systems Biomedicine, University of Luxembourg Esch-sur-Alzette, Luxembourg.
(4)Departamento de Bioquímica, Instituto Nacional de Cardiología Mexico City, 
Mexico.
(5)Department of Automatic Control and Systems Engineering, The University of 
Sheffield Sheffield, UK.
(6)Department of Molecular Cell Physiology, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam 
Amsterdam, Netherlands.
(7)School of Computer Science, The University of Manchester Manchester, UK.
(8)Netherlands Institute for Neuroscience Amsterdam, Netherlands ; Russian 
Cardiology Research Center Moscow, Russia ; Department of Medicine, Center for 
Alzheimer and Neurodegenerative Research, University of Alberta Edmonton, AB, 
Canada.

Living organisms persist by virtue of complex interactions among many components 
organized into dynamic, environment-responsive networks that span multiple 
scales and dimensions. Biological networks constitute a type of information and 
communication technology (ICT): they receive information from the outside and 
inside of cells, integrate and interpret this information, and then activate a 
response. Biological networks enable molecules within cells, and even cells 
themselves, to communicate with each other and their environment. We have become 
accustomed to associating brain activity - particularly activity of the human 
brain - with a phenomenon we call "intelligence." Yet, four billion years of 
evolution could have selected networks with topologies and dynamics that confer 
traits analogous to this intelligence, even though they were outside the 
intercellular networks of the brain. Here, we explore how macromolecular 
networks in microbes confer intelligent characteristics, such as memory, 
anticipation, adaptation and reflection and we review current understanding of 
how network organization reflects the type of intelligence required for the 
environments in which they were selected. We propose that, if we were to leave 
terms such as "human" and "brain" out of the defining features of 
"intelligence," all forms of life - from microbes to humans - exhibit some or 
all characteristics consistent with "intelligence." We then review advances in 
genome-wide data production and analysis, especially in microbes, that provide a 
lens into microbial intelligence and propose how the insights derived from 
quantitatively characterizing biomolecular networks may enable synthetic 
biologists to create intelligent molecular networks for biotechnology, possibly 
generating new forms of intelligence, first in silico and then in vivo.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2014.00379
PMCID: PMC4106424
PMID: 25101076


1094. PLoS One. 2014 Aug 7;9(8):e104132. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0104132. 
eCollection 2014.

The association of early childhood cognitive development and behavioural 
difficulties with pre-adolescent problematic eating attitudes.

Richmond RC(1), Skugarevsky O(2), Yang S(3), Kramer MS(3), Wade KH(1), Patel 
R(4), Bogdanovich N(5), Vilchuck K(5), Sergeichick N(5), Smith GD(1), Oken E(6), 
Martin RM(7).

Author information:
(1)School of Social and Community Medicine, University of Bristol, Bristol, 
United Kingdom; MRC Integrative Epidemiology Unit (IEU), University of Bristol, 
Bristol, United Kingdom.
(2)Psychiatry and Medical Psychology Department, Belarussian State Medical 
University, Minsk, Belarus.
(3)Departments of Pediatrics and of Epidemiology, Biostatistics and Occupational 
Health, McGill University Faculty of Medicine, Montreal, Canada.
(4)School of Social and Community Medicine, University of Bristol, Bristol, 
United Kingdom.
(5)The National Research and Applied Medicine Mother and Child Centre, Minsk, 
Belarus.
(6)Obesity Prevention Program, Department of Population Medicine, Harvard 
Medical School and the Harvard Pilgrim Health Care Institute, Boston, 
Massachusetts, United States of America.
(7)School of Social and Community Medicine, University of Bristol, Bristol, 
United Kingdom; MRC Integrative Epidemiology Unit (IEU), University of Bristol, 
Bristol, United Kingdom; National Institute of Health Research (NIHR) Bristol 
Biomedical Research Unit in Nutrition, University Hospitals Bristol NHS Trust 
and University of Bristol, Bristol, United Kingdom.

OBJECTIVES: Few studies have prospectively investigated associations of child 
cognitive ability and behavioural difficulties with later eating attitudes. We 
investigated associations of intelligence quotient (IQ), academic performance 
and behavioural difficulties at 6.5 years with eating attitudes five years 
later.
METHODS: We conducted an observational cohort study nested within the Promotion 
of Breastfeeding Intervention Trial, Belarus. Of 17,046 infants enrolled at 
birth, 13,751 (80.7%) completed the Children's Eating Attitude Test (ChEAT) at 
11.5 years, most with information on IQ (n = 12,667), academic performance (n = 
9,954) and behavioural difficulties (n = 11,098) at 6.5 years. The main outcome 
was a ChEAT score ≥ 85th percentile, indicative of problematic eating attitudes.
RESULTS: Boys with higher IQ at 6.5 years reported fewer problematic eating 
attitudes, as assessed by ChEAT scores ≥ 85th percentile, at 11.5 years (OR per 
SD increase in full-scale IQ = 0.87; 0.79, 0.94). No such association was 
observed in girls (1.01; 0.93, 1.10) (p for sex-interaction = 0.016). In both 
boys and girls, teacher-assessed academic performance in non-verbal subjects was 
inversely associated with high ChEAT scores five years later (OR per unit 
increase in mathematics ability = 0.88; 0.82, 0.94; and OR per unit increase in 
ability for other non-verbal subjects = 0.86; 0.79, 0.94). Behavioural 
difficulties were positively associated with high ChEAT scores five years later 
(OR per SD increase in teacher-assessed rating = 1.13; 1.07, 1.19).
CONCLUSION: Lower IQ, worse non-verbal academic performance and behavioural 
problems at early school age are positively associated with risk of problematic 
eating attitudes in early adolescence.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0104132
PMCID: PMC4125275
PMID: 25102171 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: Emily Oken has given an 
invited talk for Nestle Nutrition Institute in 2011 on secular trends in birth 
weight. Richard M. Martin gave an invited talk for the Nestle Nutrition 
Institute in 2010 on the role of the insulin-like growth factor system in growth 
and chronic disease risk. Michael S. Kramer has received unrelated meeting 
expenses from the Nestle Nutrition Institute. All other authors declare no 
conflict of interest. This does not alter the authors' adherence to PLOS ONE 
policies on sharing data and materials.


1095. Sensors (Basel). 2014 Aug 6;14(8):14302-29. doi: 10.3390/s140814302.

A mobile Virtual Butler to bridge the gap between users and ambient assisted 
living: a Smart Home case study.

Costa N(1), Domingues P(2), Fdez-Riverola F(3), Pereira A(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Technology and Management, Computer Science and Communications 
Research Centre, Polytechnic Institute of Leiria, Leiria 2411-901, Portugal. 
nuno.costa@ipleiria.pt.
(2)School of Technology and Management, Computer Science and Communications 
Research Centre, Polytechnic Institute of Leiria, Leiria 2411-901, Portugal. 
patricio.domingues@ipleiria.pt.
(3)Higher Technical School of Computer Engineering, University of Vigo, 
Polytechnic Building, Campus Universitario As Lagoas s/n, 32004 Ourense, Spain. 
riverola@uvigo.es.
(4)School of Technology and Management, Computer Science and Communications 
Research Centre, Polytechnic Institute of Leiria, Leiria 2411-901, Portugal. 
apereira@ipleiria.pt.

Ambient Intelligence promises to transform current spaces into electronic 
environments that are responsive, assistive and sensitive to human presence. 
Those electronic environments will be fully populated with dozens, hundreds or 
even thousands of connected devices that share information and thus become 
intelligent. That massive wave of electronic devices will also invade everyday 
objects, turning them into smart entities, keeping their native features and 
characteristics while seamlessly promoting them to a new class of thinking and 
reasoning everyday objects. Although there are strong expectations that most of 
the users' needs can be fulfilled without their intervention, there are still 
situations where interaction is required. This paper presents work being done in 
the field of human-computer interaction, focusing on smart home environments, 
while being a part of a larger project called Aging Inside a Smart Home. This 
initiative arose as a way to deal with a large scourge of our country, where 
lots of elderly persons live alone in their homes, often with limited or no 
physical mobility. The project relies on the mobile agent computing paradigm in 
order to create a Virtual Butler that provides the interface between the elderly 
and the smart home infrastructure. The Virtual Butler is receptive to user 
questions, answering them according to the context and knowledge of the AISH. It 
is also capable of interacting with the user whenever it senses that something 
has gone wrong, notifying next of kin and/or medical services, etc. The Virtual 
Butler is aware of the user location and moves to the computing device which is 
closest to the user, in order to be always present. Its avatar can also run in 
handheld devices keeping its main functionality in order to track user when s/he 
goes out. According to the evaluation carried out, the Virtual Butler is 
assessed as a very interesting and loved digital friend, filling the gap between 
the user and the smart home. The evaluation also showed that the Virtual Butler 
concept can be easily ported to other types of possible smart and assistive 
environments like airports, hospitals, shopping malls, offices, etc.

DOI: 10.3390/s140814302
PMCID: PMC4179076
PMID: 25102342 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1096. Curr Opin Endocrinol Diabetes Obes. 2014 Oct;21(5):339-44. doi: 
10.1097/MED.0000000000000091.

Intelligence and obesity: which way does the causal direction go?

Kanazawa S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Management, London School of Economics and Political Science, 
London, UK.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The negative association between intelligence and obesity has 
been well established, but the direction of causality is unclear. The present 
review surveys the recent studies on the topic with both cross-sectional and 
longitudinal data in an attempt to establish causality.
RECENT FINDINGS: Most studies in the area employ cross-sectional data and 
conclude (without empirical justification) that obesity causes intellectual 
impairment. The few studies that employ prospectively longitudinal data, 
however, uniformly conclude that lower intelligence leads to BMI gains and 
obesity. A close examination of three such studies, from three different nations 
(Sweden, New Zealand, and the UK), leaves little doubt that the causality runs 
from low intelligence to obesity.
SUMMARY: The conclusion in previous studies that obesity impairs cognitive 
function stems from improper interpretation of a negative association between 
intelligence and obesity from cross-sectional studies. Results from the analyses 
of high-quality, population-based, prospectively longitudinal data firmly 
establish that low intelligence increases the chances of obesity.

DOI: 10.1097/MED.0000000000000091
PMID: 25102406 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1097. J Atten Disord. 2017 Sep;21(11):944-955. doi: 10.1177/1087054714545537. Epub 
2014 Aug 7.

Fractionating Executive Functions of Adults With ADHD.

Bueno VF(1), da Silva MA(2), Alves TM(2), Louzã MR(2), Pompéia S(1).

Author information:
(1)1 Universidade Federal de São Paulo, Brazil.
(2)2 Universidade de São Paulo, Brazil.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the performance of adults with ADHD considering the 
fractionation of executive functions into six different domains.
METHOD: Participants were adult ADHD patients who were not under the acute 
effects of medication ( n = 48). Their performance was compared with that of a 
healthy control group ( n = 20) of comparable age, education, and nonverbal 
intelligence quotient. The cognitive domains assessed were executive shifting, 
updating, inhibition of prepotent responses, dual-task performance, planning, 
and access to long-term memory. We also assessed the symptoms of inattention, 
hyperactivity/impulsivity, anxiety, and depression by validated questionnaires.
RESULTS: Compared with controls, patients reported more symptoms related to 
ADHD, anxiety and depression symptoms and were impaired in the shifting cost 
measure and phonemic fluency (measure of access to long-term memory).
CONCLUSION: ADHD in adults selectively impaired executive shifting and access to 
long-term memory, domains that may alter performance in a wide range of daily 
tasks.

DOI: 10.1177/1087054714545537
PMID: 25104788 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1098. Curr Opin Endocrinol Diabetes Obes. 2014 Oct;21(5):372-6. doi: 
10.1097/MED.0000000000000090.

Environmental perchlorate exposure: potential adverse thyroid effects.

Leung AM(1), Pearce EN, Braverman LE.

Author information:
(1)aDivision of Endocrinology, David Geffen School of Medicine, University of 
California Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California bSection of Endocrinology, 
Diabetes, and Nutrition, Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, 
Massachusetts, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: This review will present a general overview of the sources, 
human studies, and proposed regulatory action regarding environmental 
perchlorate exposure.
RECENT FINDINGS: Some recent studies have reported significant associations 
between urinary perchlorate concentrations, thyroid dysfunction, and decreased 
infant intelligence quotient in groups who would be particularly susceptible to 
perchlorate effects. An update regarding the recently proposed regulatory 
actions and potential costs surrounding amelioration of perchlorate 
contamination is provided.
SUMMARY: The potential adverse thyroidal effects of environmental perchlorate 
exposure remain controversial, and further research is needed to further define 
its relationship to human health among pregnant and lactating women and their 
infants.

DOI: 10.1097/MED.0000000000000090
PMCID: PMC4269291
PMID: 25106002 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1099. Forensic Sci Int. 2014 Sep;242:e44-e47. doi: 10.1016/j.forsciint.2014.07.013. 
Epub 2014 Jul 23.

Inspection and analysis of mixed drugs recently seized in China.

Zhu B(1), Meng L(2), Zheng K(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Forensic Science, Fujian Police College, Fuzhou, PR China. 
Electronic address: zbl506@126.com.
(2)Department of Forensic Science, Fujian Police College, Fuzhou, PR China.

Recently a new type of mixed drug oral solution has become prevalent in China, 
the identification and quantitative inspection of which are demanded in 
conviction and sentencing as well as drug intelligence. In 2013, inspection was 
carried out on 86 bottles of substances seized in 13 cases with the adoption of 
GC-MS methodology for qualitative identification and GC-FID for quantitative 
identification. 94.1% of the samples were light yellow turbid liquid while 95.3% 
were detected with more than two drugs. Detection rate of methamphetamine, MDMA 
and ketamine was up to 89.5%, 37.2% and 83.7% respectively. Quantitative 
inspection results indicated that concentrations of methamphetamine, MDMA, 
ketamine were 0.04-13 mg/mL, 0.04-29 mg/mL and 0.1-34 mg/mL, respectively. 
Appearance, composition and drug concentration of samples vary from case to 
case.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.forsciint.2014.07.013
PMID: 25106067


1100. J Med Pract Manage. 2014 May-Jun;29(6):387-90.

Leveraging business intelligence to make better decisions: Part II.

Reimers M.

This article is the second in a series about business intelligence (BI) in a 
medical practice. The first article reviewed the evolution of data reporting 
within the industry and provided some examples of how BI concepts differ from 
the reports available in the menus of our software systems, or the dashboards 
and scorecards practices have implemented. This article will discuss how to 
begin a BI initiative for front-end medical practice staffers that will create 
tools they can use to reduce errors and increase efficiency throughout their 
workday. This type of BI rollout can allow practices to get started with very 
little financial investment, gain enthusiasm from end users, and achieve a quick 
return on investment. More examples of successful BI projects in medical 
practices are discussed to help illustrate BI concepts.

PMID: 25108990 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1101. Acta Otorrinolaringol Esp. 2015 Mar-Apr;66(2):87-91. doi: 
10.1016/j.otorri.2014.05.003. Epub 2014 Aug 8.

[Otoacoustic emissions as cochlear function analyser in children with language 
disorders].

[Article in Spanish]

Aguilera-Tello SA(1), Gutiérrez-Farfán I(1), Chamlati-Aguirre LE(1), 
Alatorre-Miguel E(2), Durand-Rivera A(3).

Author information:
(1)División de Audiología y Otoneurología, Instituto Nacional de Rehabilitación, 
México D.F., México.
(2)Servicio de Neurorrehabilitación, Laboratorio de Neuroprotección, Instituto 
Nacional de Rehabilitación, México D.F., México.
(3)Servicio de Neurorrehabilitación, Laboratorio de Neuroprotección, Instituto 
Nacional de Rehabilitación, México D.F., México. Electronic address: 
alfredo.durand@gmail.com.

INTRODUCTION AND OBJECTIVES: Speech perception that takes place in the cochlea 
is involved in the process of language. The objective was to describe the 
findings in transient otoacoustic emissions in children with language problems 
before and after 6 months of speech therapy.
METHODS: There were 17 children with language problems between 3 and 6 years of 
age diagnosed with anarthric language delay (expressive and mixed language 
disorder). They underwent medical history, otoscopy, intelligence level testing, 
initial language test, tympanometry of 226Hz, audiometry and transient 
otoacoustic emission test.
RESULTS: We evaluated the 17 patients again after 6 months of attending speech 
therapy. The percentage of overall reproducibility of transient otoacoustic 
emissions in both ears was adequate to perform frequency analysis. We found a 
statistically significant difference (P≤0.01) in the frequency of 1kHz 
reproducibility when comparing results before and after therapy in the right 
ear. There was a significant difference (P≤0.05) when comparing the results of 
audiometry at frequencies of 0.5, 1.5, 2, 4 and 8kHz in the right ear and a 
highly significant difference (P=0.001) in the frequency of 3kHz in the left 
ear.
CONCLUSIONS: The analysis of sound through the cochlea is involved in the 
process of language acquisition. A poor processing of speech sounds in the 
peripheral system could result in poor processing at the central level. 
Consequently, it is important to consider our results when making a diagnosis 
and carrying out rehabilitation treatment in children with language disorders.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier España, S.L.U. and Sociedad Española de 
Otorrinolaringología y Patología Cérvico-Facial. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.otorri.2014.05.003
PMID: 25109541 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1102. ScientificWorldJournal. 2014;2014:970931. doi: 10.1155/2014/970931. Epub 2014 
Jun 29.

Multilayer perceptron for robust nonlinear interval regression analysis using 
genetic algorithms.

Hu YC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Business Administration, Chung Yuan Christian University, Chung 
Li 32023, Taiwan.

On the basis of fuzzy regression, computational models in intelligence such as 
neural networks have the capability to be applied to nonlinear interval 
regression analysis for dealing with uncertain and imprecise data. When training 
data are not contaminated by outliers, computational models perform well by 
including almost all given training data in the data interval. Nevertheless, 
since training data are often corrupted by outliers, robust learning algorithms 
employed to resist outliers for interval regression analysis have been an 
interesting area of research. Several approaches involving computational 
intelligence are effective for resisting outliers, but the required parameters 
for these approaches are related to whether the collected data contain outliers 
or not. Since it seems difficult to prespecify the degree of contamination 
beforehand, this paper uses multilayer perceptron to construct the robust 
nonlinear interval regression model using the genetic algorithm. Outliers beyond 
or beneath the data interval will impose slight effect on the determination of 
data interval. Simulation results demonstrate that the proposed method performs 
well for contaminated datasets.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/970931
PMCID: PMC4106049
PMID: 25110755 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1103. Scand J Occup Ther. 2014;21 Suppl 1:34-47. doi: 10.3109/11038128.2014.952901.

A meditation on the use of hands. Previously published in Scandinavian Journal 
of Occupational Therapy 1995; 2: 153-166.

Kielhofner G(1).

Author information:
(1)From the Depariment of' Occupational Therapy. College of Associated Health 
Professions, University of Illinois at Chicago, and Karolinska Institute , 
Stockholm.

The theme of mind-body unity is fundamental to occupational therapy. 
Nonetheless, the field continues to embrace a dualism of mind and body. This 
dualism persists because the field views the body only as an object, ignoring 
how the body is lived. Drawing upon phenomenological discussions of bodily 
experience, this paper illustrates how the lived body is a locus of 
intelligence, intentionality, adaptiveness, and experience. It also considers 
the bodily ground of motivation and thought and discusses how the body 
constitutes and incorporates its world. Finally, the paper considers 
implications of the lived body for therapy.

DOI: 10.3109/11038128.2014.952901
PMID: 25116744


1104. PLoS One. 2014 Aug 12;9(8):e103781. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0103781. 
eCollection 2014.

Autism-specific covariation in perceptual performances: "g" or "p" factor?

Meilleur AA(1), Berthiaume C(1), Bertone A(2), Mottron L(1).

Author information:
(1)The University of Montreal Center of Excellence for Pervasive Developmental 
Disorders (CETEDUM), Hôpital Rivière-des-Prairies, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
(2)The University of Montreal Center of Excellence for Pervasive Developmental 
Disorders (CETEDUM), Hôpital Rivière-des-Prairies, Montreal, Quebec, Canada; 
School/Applied Child Psychology, Department of Education and Counselling 
Psychology, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Autistic perception is characterized by atypical and sometimes 
exceptional performance in several low- (e.g., discrimination) and mid-level 
(e.g., pattern matching) tasks in both visual and auditory domains. A factor 
that specifically affects perceptive abilities in autistic individuals should 
manifest as an autism-specific association between perceptual tasks. The first 
purpose of this study was to explore how perceptual performances are associated 
within or across processing levels and/or modalities. The second purpose was to 
determine if general intelligence, the major factor that accounts for 
covariation in task performances in non-autistic individuals, equally controls 
perceptual abilities in autistic individuals.
METHODS: We asked 46 autistic individuals and 46 typically developing controls 
to perform four tasks measuring low- or mid-level visual or auditory processing. 
Intelligence was measured with the Wechsler's Intelligence Scale (FSIQ) and 
Raven Progressive Matrices (RPM). We conducted linear regression models to 
compare task performances between groups and patterns of covariation between 
tasks. The addition of either Wechsler's FSIQ or RPM in the regression models 
controlled for the effects of intelligence.
RESULTS: In typically developing individuals, most perceptual tasks were 
associated with intelligence measured either by RPM or Wechsler FSIQ. The 
residual covariation between unimodal tasks, i.e. covariation not explained by 
intelligence, could be explained by a modality-specific factor. In the autistic 
group, residual covariation revealed the presence of a plurimodal factor 
specific to autism.
CONCLUSIONS: Autistic individuals show exceptional performance in some 
perceptual tasks. Here, we demonstrate the existence of specific, plurimodal 
covariation that does not dependent on general intelligence (or "g" factor). 
Instead, this residual covariation is accounted for by a common perceptual 
process (or "p" factor), which may drive perceptual abilities differently in 
autistic and non-autistic individuals.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0103781
PMCID: PMC4130524
PMID: 25117450 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


1105. J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr. 2014 Sep 1;67(1):30-5. doi: 
10.1097/QAI.0000000000000237.

Proteinuria is associated with neurocognitive impairment in antiretroviral 
therapy treated HIV-infected individuals.

Kalayjian RC(1), Wu K, Evans S, Clifford DB, Pallaki M, Currier JS, Smryzynski 
M.

Author information:
(1)*Department of Medicine, MetroHealth Medical Center; Cleveland, OH; 
†Geriatric Research Education and Clinical Centers, Louis Stokes Cleveland 
Veterans Administration, Cleveland, OH; ‡Statistical and Data Analysis Center, 
Harvard School of Public Health; Boston, MA; §Department of Neurology and 
Neurological Surgery, Washington University of St. Louis, St. Louis, MO; ‖UCLA 
CARE Center, David Geffen School of Medicine, University of California Los 
Angeles, Los Angeles, CA; and ¶Department of Epidemiology, Milken Institute 
School of Public Health, George Washington University, Washington, DC.

BACKGROUND: Proteinuria is a marker of vascular dysfunction that predicted 
increased cardiovascular mortality and is associated with neurocognitive 
impairment (NCI) in population-based studies. We examined associations between 
proteinuria and HIV-associated NCI.
METHODS: Multivariable logistic regression was used to examine associations 
between NCI at the first neurocognitive assessment (baseline) and simultaneous, 
clinically significant proteinuria [as random spot urine protein-to-creatinine 
ratios (UP/Cr) ≥200 mg/g] in a prospective multicenter observational cohort 
study. Generalized estimating equations were used to examine associations 
between baseline proteinuria and subsequent NCI among subjects without NCI at 
baseline. NCI was defined as a Z-score, derived from the combination of 
normalized scores from the Trailmaking A and B and the Wechsler Adult 
Intelligence Scale-Revised Digit Symbol tests.
RESULTS: A total of 1972 subjects were included in this analysis. Baseline 
proteinuria was associated with increased odds of NCI [odds ratio (OR): 1.41, 
95% confidence interval (CI): 1.08 to 1.85; P = 0.01] and with subsequent NCI 
among subjects without NCI at baseline (OR: 1.39, 95% CI: 1.01 to 1.93; P = 
0.046) in multivariable models adjusted for risk factors and potential 
confounders. Similar associations were evident when these analyses were limited 
to visits at which time study subjects maintained plasma HIV RNA levels <200 
copies per milliliter.
CONCLUSIONS: The association between proteinuria and NCI observed in this study 
adds to a growing body of evidence implicating contributions by vascular disease 
to NCI in antiretroviral treated individuals. Studies examining interventions 
that improve vascular function are warranted.

DOI: 10.1097/QAI.0000000000000237
PMCID: PMC4133749
PMID: 25118793 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1106. Front Neurosci. 2014 Jul 24;8:221. doi: 10.3389/fnins.2014.00221. eCollection 
2014.

Automatic real-time monitoring and assessment of tremor parameters in the upper 
limb from orientation data.

Lambrecht S(1), Gallego JA(1), Rocon E(1), Pons JL(1).

Author information:
(1)Neurorehabilitation group, Cajal Institute, Spanish National Research Council 
(CSIC) Madrid, Spain.

Upper limb tremor is the most prevalent movement disorder and, unfortunately, it 
is not effectively managed in a large proportion of the patients. 
Neuroprostheses that stimulate the sensorimotor pathways are one of the most 
promising alternatives although they are still under development. To enrich the 
interpretation of data recorded during long-term tremor monitoring and to 
increase the intelligence of tremor suppression neuroprostheses we need to be 
aware of the context. Context awareness is a major challenge for neuroprostheses 
and would allow these devices to react more quickly and appropriately to the 
changing demands of the user and/or task. Traditionally kinematic features are 
used to extract context information, with most recently the use of joint angles 
as highly potential features. In this paper we present two algorithms that 
enable the robust extraction of joint angle and related features to enable 
long-term continuous monitoring of tremor with context awareness. First, we 
describe a novel relative sensor placement identification technique based on 
orientation data. We focus on relative rather than absolute sensor location, 
because in many medical applications magnetic and inertial measurement units 
(MIMU) are used in a chain stretching over adjacent segments, or are always 
placed on a fixed set of locations. Subsequently we demonstrate how tremor 
parameters can be extracted from orientation data using an adaptive estimation 
algorithm. Relative sensor location was detected with an accuracy of 94.12% for 
the 4 MIMU configuration, and 100% for the 3 MIMU configurations. Kinematic 
tracking error values with an average deviation of 8% demonstrate our ability to 
estimate tremor from orientation data. The methods presented in this study 
constitute an important step toward more user-friendly and context-aware 
neuroprostheses for tremor suppression and monitoring.

DOI: 10.3389/fnins.2014.00221
PMCID: PMC4110507
PMID: 25120424


1107. Front Behav Neurosci. 2014 Jul 25;8:250. doi: 10.3389/fnbeh.2014.00250. 
eCollection 2014.

Executive function and bilingualism in young and older adults.

Kousaie S(1), Sheppard C(1), Lemieux M(2), Monetta L(3), Taler V(4).

Author information:
(1)Bruyère Research Institute (Affiliated with the University of Ottawa) Ottawa, 
ON, Canada.
(2)Département de Réadaptation, Université Laval Québec City, QC, Canada.
(3)Département de Réadaptation, Université Laval Québec City, QC, Canada ; 
Centre de Recherche de l'Institut Universitaire en Santé Mentale de Québec 
Québec City, QC, Canada.
(4)Bruyère Research Institute (Affiliated with the University of Ottawa) Ottawa, 
ON, Canada ; School of Psychology, University of Ottawa Ottawa, ON, Canada.

Research suggests that being bilingual results in advantages on executive 
control processes and disadvantages on language tasks relative to monolinguals. 
Furthermore, the executive function advantage is thought to be larger in older 
than younger adults, suggesting that bilingualism may buffer against age-related 
changes in executive function. However, there are potential confounds in some of 
the previous research, as well as inconsistencies in the literature. The goal of 
the current investigation was to examine the presence of a bilingual advantage 
in executive control and a bilingual disadvantage on language tasks in the same 
sample of young and older monolingual anglophones, monolingual francophones, and 
French/English bilinguals. Participants completed a series of executive function 
tasks, including a Stroop task, a Simon task, a sustained attention to response 
task (SART), the Wisconsin Card Sort Test (WCST), and the digit span subtest of 
the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale, and language tasks, including the Boston 
Naming Test (BNT), and category and letter fluency. The results do not 
demonstrate an unequivocal advantage for bilinguals on executive function tasks 
and raise questions about the reliability, robustness and/or specificity of 
previous findings. The results also did not demonstrate a disadvantage for 
bilinguals on language tasks. Rather, they suggest that there may be an 
influence of the language environment. It is concluded that additional research 
is required to fully characterize any language group differences in both 
executive function and language tasks.

DOI: 10.3389/fnbeh.2014.00250
PMCID: PMC4111127
PMID: 25120442


1108. Aust N Z J Psychiatry. 2015 Feb;49(2):171-80. doi: 10.1177/0004867414546386. 
Epub 2014 Aug 13.

Theory of Mind and attachment styles in people with psychotic disorders, their 
siblings, and controls.

Pos K(1), Bartels-Velthuis AA(2), Simons CJ(3), Korver-Nieberg N(4), Meijer 
CJ(4), de Haan L(4); GROUP.

Collaborators: Bruggeman R, Cahn W, de Haan L, Kahn RS, Meijer CJ, Myin-Germeys 
I, van Os J, Wiersma D.

Author information:
(1)Early Psychosis Department, Amsterdam Medical Center, Department of 
Psychiatry, Amsterdam, The Netherlands K.Pos@amc.uva.nl.
(2)University Medical Center Groningen, University Center for Psychiatry, 
Groningen, The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Psychiatry and Psychology, Maastricht University Medical 
Center, European Graduate School of Neuroscience, SEARCH, Maastricht, The 
Netherlands Department Research and Development, Geestelijke Gezondheidszorg 
Eindhoven en De Kempen, Eindhoven, The Netherlands.
(4)Early Psychosis Department, Amsterdam Medical Center, Department of 
Psychiatry, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: Impaired Theory of Mind (ToM) and insecure (adult) attachment styles 
have been found in persons with schizophrenia as well as in their healthy 
siblings. ToM refers to the ability to infer mental states of self and others 
including beliefs and emotions. Insecure attachment is proposed to underlie 
impaired ToM, and comprises avoidant (discomfort with close relationships, high 
value of autonomy) and anxious (separation anxiety, dependency on others) 
attachment. Insight into the association between attachment style and ToM is 
clinically relevant, as it enhances our understanding and clinical approach to 
social dysfunction in schizophrenia. Therefore, we studied the association 
between insecure attachment styles and ToM in patients with schizophrenia, their 
siblings, and healthy controls.
METHODS: A total of 111 patients with a diagnosis in the schizophrenia spectrum, 
106 non-affected siblings and 63 controls completed the Psychosis Attachment 
Measure, the Conflicting Beliefs and Emotions, a subsection of the Wechsler 
Adult Intelligence Scale, and the Childhood Trauma Questionnaire-Short Form. 
Severity of symptoms was assessed with the Community Assessment of Psychic 
Experiences and the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale.
RESULTS: After controlling for sex, intelligence, history of trauma and symptom 
severity, avoidant attachment was significantly associated with cognitive as 
well as with affective ToM, showing U-shaped associations, indicating better ToM 
performance for patients with lower or higher levels of avoidant attachment 
compared to medium levels. Anxious attachment in patients was associated with 
more problems in cognitive ToM.
CONCLUSION: The results from this study support the idea that an anxious 
attachment style is associated with worse ToM performance in patients. Results 
also suggested a potential protective role of higher levels of avoidant 
attachment on ToM. These findings bear clinical relevance, as activation of 
(insecure) attachment mechanisms may affect interpersonal relations, as well as 
therapeutic working alliance. Further clarification is needed, especially on 
associations between ToM and avoidant attachment.

© The Royal Australian and New Zealand College of Psychiatrists 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/0004867414546386
PMID: 25122450 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1109. BMC Pediatr. 2014 Aug 13;14:202. doi: 10.1186/1471-2431-14-202.

Neurofeedback in children with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder 
(ADHD)--a controlled multicenter study of a non-pharmacological treatment 
approach.

Holtmann M(1), Pniewski B, Wachtlin D, Wörz S, Strehl U.

Author information:
(1)Hospital for Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, LWL University Hospital Hamm of 
the Ruhr-University Bochum, Heithofer Allee 64, 59071 Hamm, Germany. 
martin.holtmann@wkp-lwl.org.

BACKGROUND: Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is the most common 
neurobehavioral disorder of childhood and has often a chronic course persisting 
into adulthood. However, up to 30% of children treated with stimulants either 
fail to show an improvement or suffer adverse side effects, including decreased 
appetite, insomnia and irritability and there is no evidence of long term 
efficacy of stimulants for ADHD. A series of studies has shown that 
neurofeedback is an effective additional or alternative treatment for children 
with ADHD, leading to e.g. significant and stable improvement in behavior, 
attention and IQ. Significant treatment effects of neurofeedback have also been 
verified in meta-analyses. Most of the trials, however, have been criticized for 
methodological difficulties, particularly lacking appropriate control conditions 
and number of patients included. This randomized study examines the efficacy of 
slow cortical potentials (SCP) -neurofeedback, controlling unspecific effects of 
the setting by comparing two active treatment modalities.
METHODS/DESIGN: A total of 144 patients with ADHD, older than six and younger 
than ten years, in some cases with additional pharmacological treatment, are 
included in this trial. In five trial centres patients are treated either with 
SCP-feedback or electromyographic (EMG) -feedback in 25 sessions within 
3 months. A comprehensive test battery is conducted before and after treatment 
and at follow-up 6 month later, to assess core symptoms of ADHD, general 
psychopathology, attentional performance, comorbid symptoms, intelligence, 
quality of life and cortical arousal.
DISCUSSION: The efficacy of SCP-feedback training for children with ADHD is 
evaluated in this randomized controlled study. In addition to behavior ratings 
and psychometric tests neurophysiological parameters serve as dependent 
variables. Further, the choice of EMG-biofeedback as an active control condition 
is debated.
TRIALS REGISTRATION: Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN76187185. Registered 5 
February 2009.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2431-14-202
PMCID: PMC4134464
PMID: 25123917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1110. Hong Kong Med J. 2014 Dec;20(6):504-10. doi: 10.12809/hkmj144219. Epub 2014 Aug 
15.

A validation study of the Hong Kong version of Montreal Cognitive Assessment 
(HK-MoCA) in Chinese older adults in Hong Kong.

Yeung PY(1), Wong LL(2), Chan CC(3), Leung JL(2), Yung CY(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Rehabilitation, Kowloon Hospital, 147A Argyle Street, Hong 
Kong.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, United Christian Hospital, Kwun Tong, Hong Kong.
(3)Department of Medicine and Geriatrics, United Christian Hospital, Kwun Tong, 
Hong Kong.

OBJECTIVE: To validate the Hong Kong version of Montreal Cognitive Assessment 
(HK-MoCA) in identification of mild cognitive impairment and dementia in Chinese 
older adults.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional study.
SETTING: Cognition clinic and memory clinic of a public hospital in Hong Kong.
PARTICIPANTS: A total of 272 participants (dementia, n=130; mild cognitive 
impairment, n=93; normal controls, n=49) aged 60 years or above were assessed 
using HK-MoCA. The HK-MoCA scores were validated against expert diagnosis 
according to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (4th ed) 
criteria for dementia and Petersen's criteria for mild cognitive impairment. 
Statistical analysis was performed using receiver operating characteristic curve 
and regression analyses. Additionally, comparison was made with the Cantonese 
version of Mini-Mental State Examination and Global Deterioration Scale.
RESULTS: The optimal cutoff score for the HK-MoCA to differentiate cognitive 
impaired persons (mild cognitive impairment and dementia) from normal controls 
was 21/22 after adjustment of education level, giving a sensitivity of 0.928, 
specificity of 0.735, and area under the curve of 0.920. Moreover, the cutoff to 
detect mild cognitive impairment was 21/22 with a sensitivity of 0.828, 
specificity of 0.735, and area under the curve of 0.847. Score of the Cantonese 
version of the Mini-Mental State Examination to detect mild cognitive impairment 
was 26/27 with a sensitivity of 0.785, specificity of 0.816, and area under the 
curve of 0.857. At the optimal cutoff of 18/19, HK-MoCA identified dementia from 
controls with a sensitivity of 0.923, specificity of 0.918, and area under the 
curve of 0.971.
CONCLUSION: The HK-MoCA is a useful cognitive screening instrument for use in 
Chinese older adults in Hong Kong. A score of less than 22 should prompt further 
diagnostic assessment. It has comparable sensitivity with the Cantonese version 
of Mini-Mental State Examination for detection of mild cognitive impairment. It 
is brief and feasible to conduct in the clinical setting, and can be completed 
in less than 15 minutes. Thus, HK-MoCA provides an attractive alternative 
screening instrument to Mini-Mental State Examination which has ceiling effect 
(ie may fail to detect mild/moderate cognitive impairment in people with high 
education level or premorbid intelligence) and needs to be purchased due to 
copyright issues.

DOI: 10.12809/hkmj144219
PMID: 25125421 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1111. Ann Gen Psychiatry. 2014 Aug 6;13:22. doi: 10.1186/s12991-014-0022-2. 
eCollection 2014.

Duplication of the NPHP1 gene in patients with autism spectrum disorder and 
normal intellectual ability: a case series.

Yasuda Y(1), Hashimoto R(2), Fukai R(3), Okamoto N(4), Hiraki Y(5), Yamamori 
H(6), Fujimoto M(1), Ohi K(1), Taniike M(7), Mohri I(7), Nakashima M(8), 
Tsurusaki Y(8), Saitsu H(8), Matsumoto N(8), Miyake N(8), Takeda M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Osaka University Graduate School of Medicine, D3, 
2-2, Yamadaoka, Suita 565-0871, Osaka, Japan.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Osaka University Graduate School of Medicine, D3, 
2-2, Yamadaoka, Suita 565-0871, Osaka, Japan ; Molecular Research Center for 
Children's Mental Development, United Graduate School of Child Development, 
Osaka University, D3, 2-2, Yamadaoka, Suita 565-0871, Osaka, Japan.
(3)Department of Human Genetics, Yokohama City University Graduate School of 
Medicine, 3-9 Fukuura, Kanazawa-ku 236-0004, Yokohama, Japan ; Department of 
Neurology and Stroke Medicine, Yokohama City University Graduate School of 
Medicine, 3-9 Fukuura, Kanazawa-ku 236-0004, Yokohama, Japan.
(4)Division of Medical Genetics, Osaka Medical Center and Research Institute for 
Maternal and Child Health, Izumi 594-1101, Japan.
(5)Hiroshima Municipal Center for Child Health and Development, Hiroshima 
732-0052, Japan.
(6)Department of Psychiatry, Osaka University Graduate School of Medicine, D3, 
2-2, Yamadaoka, Suita 565-0871, Osaka, Japan ; Department of Molecular 
Neuropsychiatry, Osaka University Graduate School of Medicine, D3, 2-2, 
Yamadaoka, Suita 565-0871, Osaka, Japan.
(7)Molecular Research Center for Children's Mental Development, United Graduate 
School of Child Development, Osaka University, D3, 2-2, Yamadaoka, Suita 
565-0871, Osaka, Japan.
(8)Department of Neurology and Stroke Medicine, Yokohama City University 
Graduate School of Medicine, 3-9 Fukuura, Kanazawa-ku 236-0004, Yokohama, Japan.

Autism spectrum disorder is a neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by 
impairments in social interactions, reduced verbal communication abilities, 
stereotyped repetitive behaviors, and restricted interests. It is a complex 
condition caused by genetic and environmental factors; the high heritability of 
this disorder supports the presence of a significant genetic contribution. Many 
studies have suggested that copy-number variants contribute to the etiology of 
autism spectrum disorder. Recently, copy-number variants of the nephronophthisis 
1 gene have been reported in patients with autism spectrum disorder. To the best 
of our knowledge, only six autism spectrum disorder cases with duplications of 
the nephronophthisis 1 gene have been reported. These patients exhibited 
intellectual dysfunction, including verbal dysfunction in one patient, 
below-average verbal intellectual ability in one patient, and intellectual 
disability in four patients. In this study, we identified nephronophthisis 1 
duplications in two unrelated Japanese patients with autism spectrum disorder 
using a high-resolution single-nucleotide polymorphism array. This report is the 
first to describe a nephronophthisis 1 duplication in an autism spectrum 
disorder patient with an average verbal intelligence quotient and an average 
performance intelligence quotient. However, the second autism spectrum disorder 
patient with a nephronophthisis 1 duplication had a below-average performance 
intelligence quotient. Neither patient exhibited physical dysfunction, motor 
developmental delay, or neurological abnormalities. This study supports the 
clinical observation of nephronophthisis 1 duplication in autism spectrum 
disorder cases and might contribute to our understanding of the clinical 
phenotype that arises from this duplication.

DOI: 10.1186/s12991-014-0022-2
PMCID: PMC4131154
PMID: 25126106


1112. Early Hum Dev. 2014 Oct;90(10):587-93. doi: 10.1016/j.earlhumdev.2014.07.009. 
Epub 2014 Aug 13.

Associations between maternal scaffolding and executive functioning in 3 and 4 
year olds born very low birth weight and normal birth weight.

Lowe J(1), Erickson SJ(2), MacLean P(3), Duvall SW(4), Ohls RK(3), Duncan AF(3).

Author information:
(1)University of New Mexico, School of Medicine, Albuquerque, NM, USA. 
Electronic address: jrlowe@unm.edu.
(2)University of New Mexico, Department of Psychology, Albuquerque, NM, USA.
(3)University of New Mexico, School of Medicine, Albuquerque, NM, USA.
(4)Oregon Health & Science University, Division of Psychology, Institute on 
Development & Disability, Portland, OR, USA.

BACKGROUND: Deficits in executive function, including measures of working 
memory, inhibition and cognitive flexibility, have been documented in 
preschoolers born very low birth weight (VLBW) compared with preschoolers born 
normal birth weight (NBW). Maternal verbal scaffolding has been associated with 
positive outcomes for both at-risk and typically developing preschoolers.
AIMS: The purpose of this study was to examine associations between maternal 
verbal scaffolding, Verbal IQ (VIQ) and executive function measures in 
preschoolers born VLBW.
SUBJECTS: A total of 64 VLBW and 40 NBW preschoolers ranging in age from 3 ½ to 
4 years participated in the study.
OUTCOME MEASURES: VIQ was measured with the Wechsler Preschool and Primary Scale 
of Intelligence - Third Edition. Executive function tests included the Bear 
Dragon, Gift Delay Peek, Reverse Categorization and Dimensional Change Card 
Sort-Separated Dimensions.
STUDY DESIGN: Maternal verbal scaffolding was coded during a videotaped play 
session. Associations between maternal verbal scaffolding and preschoolers' 
measures of VIQ and executive function were compared. Covariates included test 
age, maternal education, and gender.
RESULTS: Preschoolers born VLBW performed significantly worse on VIQ and all 
executive function measures compared to those born NBW. Maternal verbal 
scaffolding was associated with VIQ for VLBW preschoolers and Gift Delay Peek 
for the NBW group. Girls born VLBW outperformed boys born VLBW on VIQ and Bear 
Dragon.
CONCLUSION: Integrating scaffolding skills training as part of parent-focused 
intervention may be both feasible and valuable for early verbal reasoning and EF 
development.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.earlhumdev.2014.07.009
PMCID: PMC4170051
PMID: 25127288 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICT OF INTEREST STATEMENT None of the 
authors have any conflict interest to report relevant to this manuscript.


1113. Talanta. 2014 Nov;129:79-85. doi: 10.1016/j.talanta.2014.05.015. Epub 2014 May 
21.

Evaluation of surface-enhanced Raman scattering detection using a handheld and a 
bench-top Raman spectrometer: a comparative study.

Zheng J(1), Pang S(2), Labuza TP(3), He L(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Food Science, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, MA, 01003, 
United States; Institute of Agro-Products Processing Science and Technology, 
Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Beijing 100193,PR China.
(2)Department of Food Science, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, MA, 01003, 
United States.
(3)Department of Food Science and Nutrition, University of Minnesota, St. Paul, 
MN 55108, United States.
(4)Department of Food Science, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, MA, 01003, 
United States. Electronic address: lilihe@foodsci.umass.edu.

Surface enhanced Raman scattering (SERS) detection using a handheld Raman 
spectrometer and a bench-top Raman spectrometer was systemically evaluated and 
compared in this study. Silver dendrites were used as the SERS substrate, and 
two pesticides, maneb and pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate-ammonium salt (PDCA) were 
used as the analytes. Capacity and performance were evaluated based on spectral 
resolution, signal variation, quantitative capacity, sensitivity, flexibility 
and intelligence for SERS detection. The results showed that the handheld Raman 
spectrometer had better data consistency, more accurate quantification capacity, 
as well as the capacity of on-site and intelligence for qualitative and 
semi-quantitative analysis. On the other hand, the bench-top Raman spectrometer 
showed about 10 times higher sensitivity, as well as flexibility for 
optimization of the SERS measurements under different parameters such as laser 
power output, collective time, and objective magnification. The study on the 
optimization of SERS measurements on a bench-top spectrometer provides a useful 
guide for designing a handheld Raman spectrometer, specifically for SERS 
detection. This evaluation can advance the application of a handheld Raman 
spectrometer for the on-site measurement of trace amounts of pesticides or other 
chemicals.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.talanta.2014.05.015
PMID: 25127567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1114. Biol Psychiatry. 2015 Mar 15;77(6):581-8. doi: 10.1016/j.biopsych.2014.06.020. 
Epub 2014 Jul 3.

In vivo hippocampal subfield volumes in schizophrenia and bipolar disorder.

Haukvik UK(1), Westlye LT(2), Mørch-Johnsen L(3), Jørgensen KN(3), Lange EH(3), 
Dale AM(4), Melle I(5), Andreassen OA(5), Agartz I(3).

Author information:
(1)Norwegian Centre for Mental Disorders Research K.G. Jebsen Centre for 
Psychosis Research, Institute of Clinical Medicine, University of, Oslo, Norway; 
Department of Psychiatric Research, Diakonhjemmet Hospital, Oslo, Norway. 
Electronic address: unn.haukvik@medisin.uio.no.
(2)Department of Psychology, University of, Oslo, Norway; Norwegian Centre for 
Mental Disorders Research K.G. Jebsen Centre for Psychosis Research, Division of 
Mental Health and Addiction, Oslo University Hospital, Oslo, Norway.
(3)Norwegian Centre for Mental Disorders Research K.G. Jebsen Centre for 
Psychosis Research, Institute of Clinical Medicine, University of, Oslo, Norway; 
Department of Psychiatric Research, Diakonhjemmet Hospital, Oslo, Norway.
(4)Department of Neurosciences, University of California, San Diego, School of 
Medicine, La Jolla, California; Department of Radiology, University of 
California, San Diego, School of Medicine, La Jolla, California.
(5)Norwegian Centre for Mental Disorders Research K.G. Jebsen Centre for 
Psychosis Research, Institute of Clinical Medicine, University of, Oslo, Norway; 
Norwegian Centre for Mental Disorders Research K.G. Jebsen Centre for Psychosis 
Research, Division of Mental Health and Addiction, Oslo University Hospital, 
Oslo, Norway.

BACKGROUND: Hippocampal dysfunction and volume reductions have been reported in 
patients with schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. The hippocampus consists of 
anatomically distinct subfields. We investigated to determine whether in vivo 
volumes of hippocampal subfields differ between clinical groups and healthy 
control subjects.
METHODS: Clinical examination and magnetic resonance imaging were performed in 
702 subjects (patients with schizophrenia spectrum [n = 210; mean age, 32.0 ± 
9.3 (SD) years; 59% male], patients with bipolar spectrum [n = 192; mean age, 
35.5 ± 11.5 years; 40% male] and healthy control subjects [n = 300; mean age, 
35.3 ± 9.9 years; 53% male]). Hippocampal subfield volumes were estimated with 
FreeSurfer. General linear models were used to explore diagnostic differences in 
hippocampal subfield volumes, covarying for age, intracranial volume, and 
medication. Post hoc analyses of associations to psychosis symptoms (Positive 
and Negative Syndrome Scale) and cognitive function (verbal memory [California 
Verbal Learning Test, second edition] and IQ [Wechsler Abbreviated Scale of 
Intelligence]) were performed.
RESULTS: Patient groups had smaller cornu ammonis (CA) subfields CA2/3 (left, p 
= 7.2 × 10(-6); right, p = 2.3 × 10(-6)), CA4/dentate gyrus (left, p = 1.4 × 
10(-5); right, p = 2.3 × 10(-6)), subiculum (left, p = 3.7 × 10(-6); right, p = 
2.8 × 10(-8)), and right CA1 (p = .006) volumes than healthy control subjects, 
but smaller presubiculum volumes were found only in patients with schizophrenia 
(left, p = 6.7 × 10(-5); right, p = 1.6 × 10(-7)). Patients with schizophrenia 
had smaller subiculum (left, p = .035; right, p = .031) and right presubiculum 
(p = .002) volumes than patients with bipolar disorder. Smaller subiculum 
volumes were related to poorer verbal memory in patients with bipolar disorder 
and healthy control subjects and to negative symptoms in patients with 
schizophrenia.
CONCLUSIONS: Hippocampal subfield volume reductions are found in patients with 
schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. The magnitude of reduction is greater in 
patients with schizophrenia, particularly in the hippocampal outflow regions 
presubiculum and subiculum.

Copyright © 2015 Society of Biological Psychiatry. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopsych.2014.06.020
PMID: 25127742 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1115. J Sex Med. 2014 Nov;11(11):2772-84. doi: 10.1111/jsm.12651. Epub 2014 Aug 7.

Prevalence and risk factors of sexual problems and sexual distress in a sample 
of women suffering from chronic widespread pain.

Burri A(1), Lachance G, Williams FM.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Psychology, University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.

INTRODUCTION: Chronic widespread pain (CWP) is a prevalent musculoskeletal 
problem and a cardinal symptom of fibromyalgia, affecting up to 15% of the 
population. CWP is associated with substantial physical and psychological 
impairment and reduced quality of life.
AIM: To describe sexual problems in women having CWP. To compare the sexual 
function between patients with CWP and healthy women, and to explore potential 
predictors of sexual problems in women suffering from CWP.
METHODS: A descriptive, cross sectional study involving a total of 853 
individuals, including 166 with CWP and 687 healthy counterparts. For the 
screening of sexual problems and distress, the original and amended lifelong 
version of the Female Sexual Function Index (FSFI) and the Female Sexual 
Distress Scale were applied. A set of standardized questionnaires to assess 
potential risk factors for sexual problems was further used.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The levels of sexual function and distress in women with 
CWP was compared with those of healthy women. Univariate and multivariate linear 
regression was used to determine the potential predictors for sexual problems in 
women with CWP and healthy counterparts.
RESULTS: Women with CWP reported more difficulties with lubrication, more sexual 
pain, and higher levels of sexual distress. Potential predictors of sexual 
problems in women with CWP were heterogeneous, with relationship dissatisfaction 
being associated with lower levels of sexual function in all the FSFI domains. 
Significant, domain-specific effects were further detected for anxiety 
sensitivity, emotional intelligence, obsessive compulsive behavior, and the big 
five personality traits. In general, factors influencing recent sexual problems 
were different from those influencing lifelong sexual function.
CONCLUSIONS: CWP patients report more sexual pain and sexual distress compared 
with controls. Assessment of sexual problems should therefore be added to 
routine care of patients with CWP.

© 2014 International Society for Sexual Medicine.

DOI: 10.1111/jsm.12651
PMID: 25130789 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1116. Soc Sci Res. 2014 Nov;48:157-70. doi: 10.1016/j.ssresearch.2014.06.003. Epub 
2014 Jun 24.

Intelligence and childlessness.

Kanazawa S(1).

Author information:
(1)Managerial Economics and Strategy Group, Department of Management, London 
School of Economics and Political Science, Houghton Street, London WC2A 2AE, 
United Kingdom. Electronic address: S.Kanazawa@lse.ac.uk.

Demographers debate why people have children in advanced industrial societies 
where children are net economic costs. From an evolutionary perspective, 
however, the important question is why some individuals choose not to have 
children. Recent theoretical developments in evolutionary psychology suggest 
that more intelligent individuals may be more likely to prefer to remain 
childless than less intelligent individuals. Analyses of the National Child 
Development Study show that more intelligent men and women express preference to 
remain childless early in their reproductive careers, but only more intelligent 
women (not more intelligent men) are more likely to remain childless by the end 
of their reproductive careers. Controlling for education and earnings does not 
at all attenuate the association between childhood general intelligence and 
lifetime childlessness among women. One-standard-deviation increase in childhood 
general intelligence (15 IQ points) decreases women's odds of parenthood by 
21-25%. Because women have a greater impact on the average intelligence of 
future generations, the dysgenic fertility among women is predicted to lead to a 
decline in the average intelligence of the population in advanced industrial 
nations.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ssresearch.2014.06.003
PMID: 25131282 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1117. Orv Hetil. 2014 Aug 24;155(34):1353-60. doi: 10.1556/OH.2014.29966.

[International comparative study on health condition of young people].

[Article in Hungarian; Abstract available in Hungarian from the publisher]

Munkácsi B(1), Nagy BE(1).

Author information:
(1)Debreceni Egyetem, Népegészségügyi Kar Magatartástudományi Intézet, Klinikai 
és Egészségpszichológiai Tanszék Debrecen.

INTRODUCTION: The connection between physical condition, coping strategies and 
emotional intelligence is widely studied in the international literature, but 
comparative research data collected among Transylvanian and Hungarian 
adolescents are not available in contemporary psychological literature.
AIM: The aim of the authors was to study health indicators, emotional 
intelligence and coping strategies among adolescents and analyse connections 
between these factors and physical condition as part of an international 
research.
METHOD: The physical condition, coping strategies and emotional intelligence of 
390 individuals, aged between 13 and 19 years living in Debrecen (Hungary) and 
Érmihályfalva (Romania) were observed.
RESULTS: adaptive (i. e. problem-focused) coping strategies used in stressful 
situations resulted in lower depression rates, as well as better mental 
well-being than the maladaptive ones such as emotional clearing, 
self-punishment, distraction of attention. Adolescents showing higher emotional 
intelligence had lower depression levels and better mental well-being.
CONCLUSIONS: Institutionally initiated emotional intelligence and coping 
strategy development for young people may prove to be an important preventive 
interventional public health programme. This may serve as a basis to assist 
health-consciousness and personality formatting.

Publisher: Bevezetés: Az egészségi állapot kapcsolata a megküzdési stratégiákkal 
(coping), illetve az érzelmi intelligenciával, nemzetközileg széles körben 
kutatott, azonban erdélyi és magyarországi serdülőkkel végzett összehasonlító 
vizsgálati adatok a szakirodalomban nem állnak rendelkezésre. Célkitűzés: 
Serdülők egészségindikátorainak, érzelmi intelligenciájának és megküzdési 
stratégiáinak elemzése és e tényezőknek az egészségi állapottal való 
összefüggéseinek vizsgálata egy nemzetközi kutatás keretében. Módszer: A szerzők 
390, 13–19 éves debreceni és érmihályfalvi serdülő egészségi állapotát, 
megküzdési stratégiáit és érzelmi intelligenciáját vizsgálták. Eredmények: A 
stresszhelyzetben alkalmazott adaptív (azaz problémafókuszú) megküzdési 
mechanizmusok alacsonyabb depresszióértékkel, valamint jobb pszichés közérzettel 
jártak együtt, mint a maladaptívak (úgymint emóciókiürítés, önbüntetés, 
figyelemelterelés). A magasabb érzelmi intelligenciával rendelkező serdülők 
alacsonyabb depressziószinttel és jobb pszichés közérzettel rendelkeztek, mint 
társaik. Következtetések: Komoly prevenciós és intervenciós népegészségügyi 
program lehet a minél fiatalabb életkorban intézményileg elindított érzelmi 
intelligencia és coping készségfejlesztés. Ez primer prevenciós szinten 
megalapozza a fiataloknál az egészségtudatos szemlélet kialakulását és a 
személyiségfejlesztő hatást. Orv. Hetil., 2014, 155(34), 1353–1360.

DOI: 10.1556/OH.2014.29966
PMID: 25131528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1118. Laterality. 2015;20(2):154-70. doi: 10.1080/1357650X.2014.948449. Epub 2014 Aug 
18.

Investigating the role of social-affective attachment processes in cradling 
bias: the absence of cradling bias in children with Autism Spectrum Disorders.

Pileggi LA(1), Malcolm-Smith S, Solms M.

Author information:
(1)a Department of Psychology , University of Cape Town , South Africa.

Previous studies suggest that leftward cradling bias may facilitate 
mother-infant relationships, as it preferentially locates the infant in the 
mother's left hemi-space, which is specialized for several social-affective 
processes. If leftward cradling bias is mediated by social-affective attachment 
processes, it should be reduced in humans who are deficient in such processes. 
Individuals diagnosed with Autism Spectrum Disorders (ASDs) constitute a 
population with known deficits in social and emotional relating. A pilot study 
confirmed reduced bias in this group, and in the present study, we elaborated 
methods to assess also the impact of higher cognitive processes on cradling 
bias. Direct systematic observation was used to investigate the occurrence of 
cradling bias in ASD, non-ASD intellectually disabled children and typically 
developing children. Ninety-three participants aged 5-15 years cradled a 
life-like doll on four separate occasions. Intelligence and executive functions 
were assessed. Regression analyses revealed that ASD diagnosis was the only 
significant predictor of atypical cradling preference. While intellectually 
disabled and typically developing children clearly preferred to cradle to the 
left, no preference was evident in the ASD group. Results support the hypothesis 
that leftward cradling bias is associated with basic social-affective 
capacities.

DOI: 10.1080/1357650X.2014.948449
PMID: 25131653 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1119. Autism Res. 2014 Oct;7(5):527-34. doi: 10.1002/aur.1380. Epub 2014 Aug 14.

Cross-sectional evidence for a decrease in cognitive function with age in 
children with autism spectrum disorders?

Barneveld PS(1), Swaab H, van Engeland H, de Sonneville L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Child and Adolescent Studies, Leiden University, 
Leiden, The Netherlands.

Autism spectrum disorders (ASD) are associated with early disturbances in brain 
maturation processes and these interferences presumably have their consequences 
for the progressive emergence of cognitive deficits later in life, as expressed 
in intelligence profiles. In this study, we addressed the impact of age on 
cognitive functioning of 6- to 15-year-old children and adolescents with ASD. 
Intelligence profiles were measured by the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for 
Children and compared among four consecutive age cohorts (children aged 
6.17-8.03 years, 8.04-9.61 years, and 9.68-11.50 years and adolescents aged 
11.54-15.85 years) of 237 high-functioning boys with ASD. The results clearly 
demonstrated that the global intelligence level was lower in children aged 8 
years and older, when compared with 6- and 7-year-old children with ASD. This is 
mostly due to the Freedom From Distractibility factor, suggesting that older 
children were less able to sustain their attention, they were more distractible, 
or had more graph motor difficulties. Moreover, an effect of age was also found 
with respect to the relatively poor performance on the subtest Comprehension 
when compared with other verbal comprehension subtests, indicating that 
specifically the impairments in verbal comprehension and social reasoning 
abilities were more profound in older children when compared with 6- and 
7-year-old children with ASD. Findings of this cross-sectional study showed that 
it is relevant to take age into account when evaluating the impact of cognitive 
impairments on intelligence in children with ASD, because the impact of these 
developmental disorders might be different at different ages.

© 2014 International Society for Autism Research, Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/aur.1380
PMID: 25132666 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1120. Front Hum Neurosci. 2014 Jul 31;8:575. doi: 10.3389/fnhum.2014.00575. 
eCollection 2014.

Inter-individual cognitive variability in children with Asperger's syndrome.

Gonzalez-Gadea ML(1), Tripicchio P(2), Rattazzi A(2), Baez S(3), Marino J(4), 
Roca M(1), Manes F(5), Ibanez A(6).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Experimental Psychology and Neuroscience, Institute of 
Cognitive Neurology, Favaloro University Buenos Aires, Argentina ; National 
Scientific and Technical Research Council Buenos Aires, Argentina ; UDP-INECO 
Foundation Core on Neuroscience, Diego Portales University Santiago, Chile.
(2)Laboratory of Experimental Psychology and Neuroscience, Institute of 
Cognitive Neurology, Favaloro University Buenos Aires, Argentina.
(3)Laboratory of Experimental Psychology and Neuroscience, Institute of 
Cognitive Neurology, Favaloro University Buenos Aires, Argentina ; National 
Scientific and Technical Research Council Buenos Aires, Argentina ; UDP-INECO 
Foundation Core on Neuroscience, Diego Portales University Santiago, Chile ; 
Universidad Catolica Argentina Buenos Aires, Argentina.
(4)Facultad de Psicología, Universidad Nacional de Córdoba Cordoba, Argentina.
(5)Laboratory of Experimental Psychology and Neuroscience, Institute of 
Cognitive Neurology, Favaloro University Buenos Aires, Argentina ; National 
Scientific and Technical Research Council Buenos Aires, Argentina ; UDP-INECO 
Foundation Core on Neuroscience, Diego Portales University Santiago, Chile ; 
Australian Research Council, Centre of Excellence in Cognition and its Disorders 
Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(6)Laboratory of Experimental Psychology and Neuroscience, Institute of 
Cognitive Neurology, Favaloro University Buenos Aires, Argentina ; National 
Scientific and Technical Research Council Buenos Aires, Argentina ; UDP-INECO 
Foundation Core on Neuroscience, Diego Portales University Santiago, Chile ; 
Australian Research Council, Centre of Excellence in Cognition and its Disorders 
Sydney, NSW, Australia ; Universidad Autonoma del Caribe Barranquilla, Colombia.

Multiple studies have tried to establish the distinctive profile of individuals 
with Asperger's syndrome (AS). However, recent reports suggest that adults with 
AS feature heterogeneous cognitive profiles. The present study explores 
inter-individual variability in children with AS through group comparison and 
multiple case series analysis. All participants completed an extended battery 
including measures of fluid and crystallized intelligence, executive functions, 
theory of mind, and classical neuropsychological tests. Significant group 
differences were found in theory of mind and other domains related to global 
information processing. However, the AS group showed high inter-individual 
variability (both sub- and supra-normal performance) on most cognitive tasks. 
Furthermore, high fluid intelligence correlated with less general cognitive 
impairment, high cognitive flexibility, and speed of motor processing. In light 
of these findings, we propose that children with AS are characterized by a 
distinct, uneven pattern of cognitive strengths and weaknesses.

DOI: 10.3389/fnhum.2014.00575
PMCID: PMC4117184
PMID: 25132817


1121. Comput Intell Neurosci. 2014;2014:370486. doi: 10.1155/2014/370486. Epub 2014 
Jul 15.

Neural networks and fault probability evaluation for diagnosis issues.

Kourd Y(1), Lefebvre D(2), Guersi N(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Control Engineering, University of Mohamed Khider, 07000 
Biskra, Algeria.
(2)Electrical Engineering and Automatic Control Research Group (GREAH), 
University of Le Havre, 25 rue Philippe Lebon, 76058 Le Havre, France.
(3)Department of Electronics, University of Badji Mokhtar, 23000 Annaba, 
Algeria.

This paper presents a new FDI technique for fault detection and isolation in 
unknown nonlinear systems. The objective of the research is to construct and 
analyze residuals by means of artificial intelligence and probabilistic methods. 
Artificial neural networks are first used for modeling issues. Neural networks 
models are designed for learning the fault-free and the faulty behaviors of the 
considered systems. Once the residuals generated, an evaluation using 
probabilistic criteria is applied to them to determine what is the most likely 
fault among a set of candidate faults. The study also includes a comparison 
between the contributions of these tools and their limitations, particularly 
through the establishment of quantitative indicators to assess their 
performance. According to the computation of a confidence factor, the proposed 
method is suitable to evaluate the reliability of the FDI decision. The approach 
is applied to detect and isolate 19 fault candidates in the DAMADICS benchmark. 
The results obtained with the proposed scheme are compared with the results 
obtained according to a usual thresholding method.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/370486
PMCID: PMC4123600
PMID: 25132845 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1122. Neuropsychology. 2014 Nov;28(6):894-904. doi: 10.1037/neu0000125. Epub 2014 Aug 
18.

Interhemispheric collaboration during digit and dot number-matching in younger 
and older adults.

Patel UJ(1), Barakat BK(2), Romero R(3), Apodaca D(3), Hellige JB(4), Cherry 
BJ(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Christopher Newport University.
(2)Department of Psychology, University of California-Los Angeles.
(3)Department of Psychology, California State University-Fullerton.
(4)Department of Psychology, Loyola Marymount University.
(5)Department of Psychology and Gerontology Program, California State 
University-Fullerton.

Digit and dot number-matching stimuli were used to replicate findings reported 
for younger adults by Patel and Hellige (2007) and to explore whether 
performance would differ for younger versus older participants. Participants 
were to make numerical matches of digits only, dots only, and digits and dots 
mixed conditions to determine whether reaction time (RT), percentage error, and 
efficiency scores that combine latency and accuracy for match trials were better 
on within- versus across-hemisphere trials. Sixty-six younger and 42 older 
participants were screened with the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) and the 
Geriatric Depression Scale. They performed the three experimental conditions and 
were assessed with Digit Span Forward and Backward subscales from the Wechsler 
Adult Intelligence Scale-III. Results for younger adults demonstrated a 
within-hemisphere advantage for the Digits and Mixed conditions and an 
across-hemisphere advantage for the Dots condition, consistent with previous 
literature. Older participants showed a stronger within-hemisphere advantage for 
the Digits condition compared with younger participants and no advantage for 
within- or across-hemisphere processing for the Mixed condition when RT was 
considered, but they performed similarly to younger adults when efficiency 
scores were used and showed a relative across-hemisphere advantage for the Dots 
condition. Although RT suggests age-related differences in how information is 
distributed across the hemispheres of the brain, more comprehensive efficiency 
scores indicate that younger and older adults appear to use similar strategies 
in the coordination of interhemispheric transfer of information. MMSE scores 
regardless of age were related to type of task but not to across- versus 
within-hemisphere performance.

PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/neu0000125
PMID: 25133318 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1123. Psychol Addict Behav. 2014 Dec;28(4):1013-25. doi: 10.1037/a0037257. Epub 2014 
Aug 18.

An experience sampling study of PTSD and alcohol-related problems.

Gaher RM(1), Simons JS(1), Hahn AM(1), Hofman NL(1), Hansen J(1), Buchkoski 
J(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of South Dakota.
(2)Sioux Falls Veterans Administration Health Care System.

Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) represents a debilitating psychiatric 
condition that is affecting the lives of many returning veterans. PTSD and 
alcohol use and dependence are highly comorbid. The purpose of this study was to 
understand the functional mechanisms between PTSD and alcohol use and problems. 
Specifically, the role of negative urgency and emotional intelligence were 
investigated as vulnerability and resiliency factors, respectively. This study 
utilized experience sampling to test associations between PTSD symptoms and 
alcohol use and related problems in a sample of 90 OIF/OEF veterans. 
Participants completed 8 brief questionnaires daily for 2 weeks on palmtop 
computers. Elevations in PTSD symptoms during the day were associated with 
subsequent increases in alcohol use and associated problems that night. PTSD 
symptoms were associated with greater problems above and beyond the effect of 
drinking level at both the within- and between- person level. Emotional 
intelligence was associated with lower negative urgency, fewer PTSD symptoms, 
and less alcohol use and associated problems. The effects of emotional 
intelligence were primarily indirect via negative urgency and the effects of 
negative urgency on alcohol use and problems were indirect via its positive 
association with PTSD symptoms. Hypothesized cross-level effects of emotional 
intelligence and negative urgency were not supported. The findings suggest a 
functional association between PTSD symptoms and alcohol consumption. The 
association between PTSD symptoms and alcohol consumption is consistent with a 
self-medication model. However, the significant associations between PTSD 
symptoms and alcohol problems, after controlling for use level, suggest a 
broader role of dysregulation.

DOI: 10.1037/a0037257
PMCID: PMC4274209
PMID: 25134021 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1124. J Neurodev Disord. 2014;6(1):28. doi: 10.1186/1866-1955-6-28. Epub 2014 Jul 30.

The cognitive neuropsychological phenotype of carriers of the FMR1 premutation.

Grigsby J(1), Cornish K(2), Hocking D(3), Kraan C(2), Olichney JM(4), Rivera 
SM(5), Schneider A(6), Sherman S(7), Wang JY(8), Yang JC(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Colorado Denver, Denver, CO, USA ; 
Department of Medicine; Division of Health Care Policy and Research, University 
of Colorado School of Medicine, Aurora, CO, USA.
(2)School of Psychology & Psychiatry; Faculty of Medicine, Nursing and Health 
Sciences, Monash University, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(3)Olga Tennison Autism Research Centre, School of Psychological Science, La 
Trobe University, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(4)Center for Mind and Brain, University of California, Davis, CA, USA ; 
Department of Neurology, University of California, Davis, Sacramento, CA, USA.
(5)Center for Mind and Brain, University of California, Davis, CA, USA ; 
Department of Psychology, University of California-Davis, Sacramento, CA, USA ; 
MIND Institute, University of California-Davis Medical Center, Sacramento, CA, 
USA.
(6)Center for Mind and Brain, University of California, Davis, CA, USA ; MIND 
Institute, University of California-Davis Medical Center, Sacramento, CA, USA.
(7)Department of Human Genetics, Emory University, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(8)Center for Mind and Brain, University of California, Davis, CA, USA ; 
Department of Pediatrics, University of California, Davis, Sacramento, CA, USA.

The fragile X-associated tremor/ataxia syndrome (FXTAS) is a late-onset 
neurodegenerative disorder affecting a subset of carriers of the FMR1 (fragile X 
mental retardation 1) premutation. Penetrance and expression appear to be 
significantly higher in males than females. Although the most obvious aspect of 
the phenotype is the movement disorder that gives FXTAS its name, the disorder 
is also accompanied by progressive cognitive impairment. In this review, we 
address the cognitive neuropsychological and neurophysiological phenotype for 
males and females with FXTAS, and for male and female unaffected carriers. 
Despite differences in penetrance and expression, the cognitive features of the 
disorder appear similar for both genders, with impairment of executive 
functioning, working memory, and information processing the most prominent. 
Deficits in these functional systems may be largely responsible for impairment 
on other measures, including tests of general intelligence and declarative 
learning. FXTAS is to a large extent a white matter disease, and the cognitive 
phenotypes observed are consistent with what some have described as white matter 
dementia, in contrast to the impaired cortical functioning more characteristic 
of Alzheimer's disease and related disorders. Although some degree of impaired 
executive functioning appears to be ubiquitous among persons with FXTAS, the 
data suggest that only a subset of unaffected carriers of the premutation - both 
female and male - demonstrate such deficits, which typically are mild. The 
best-studied phenotype is that of males with FXTAS. The manifestations of 
cognitive impairment among asymptomatic male carriers, and among women with and 
without FXTAS, are less well understood, but have come under increased scrutiny.

DOI: 10.1186/1866-1955-6-28
PMCID: PMC4135346
PMID: 25136377


1125. Am J Med Genet B Neuropsychiatr Genet. 2014 Oct;165B(7):572-80. doi: 
10.1002/ajmg.b.32260. Epub 2014 Aug 19.

Family based genome-wide copy number scan identifies complex rearrangements at 
17q21.31 in dyslexics.

Veerappa AM(1), Saldanha M, Padakannaya P, Ramachandra NB.

Author information:
(1)Genetics and Genomics Laboratory, Department of Studies in Zoology, 
University of Mysore, Manasagangotri, Mysore.

Developmental dyslexia (DD) is a complex heritable disorder with unexpected 
difficulty in learning to read and spell despite adequate intelligence, 
education, environment, and normal senses. We performed genome-wide screening 
for copy number variations (CNVs) in 10 large Indian dyslexic families using 
Affymetrix Genome-Wide Human SNP Array 6.0. Results revealed the complex genomic 
rearrangements due to one non-contiguous deletion and five contiguous micro 
duplications and micro deletions at 17q21.31 region in three dyslexic families. 
CNVs in this region harbor the genes KIAA1267, LRRC37A, ARL17A/B, NSFP1, and 
NSF. The CNVs in case 1 and case 2 at this locus were found to be in homozygous 
state and case 3 was a de novo CNV. These CNVs were found with at least one CNV 
having a common break and end points in the parents. This cluster of genes 
containing NSF is implicated in learning, cognition, and memory, though not 
formally associated with dyslexia. Molecular network analysis of these and other 
dyslexia related module genes suggests NSF and other genes to be associated with 
cellular/vesicular membrane fusion and synaptic transmission. Thus, we suggest 
that NSF in this cluster would be the nearest gene responsible for the learning 
disability phenotype.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.b.32260
PMID: 25139666 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1126. J Vet Diagn Invest. 2014 Sep;26(5):651-7. doi: 10.1177/1040638714547257. Epub 
2014 Aug 19.

Variable-number tandem repeats genotyping used to aid and inform management 
strategies for a bovine Johne's disease incursion in tropical and subtropical 
Australia.

Oakey J(1), Gavey L(2), Singh SV(2), Platell J(2), Waltisbuhl D(2).

Author information:
(1)Biosecurity Sciences Laboratory, Biosecurity Queensland, Queensland 
Department of Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry, Coopers Plains, Queensland, 
Australia (Oakey, Platell, Waltisbuhl)Biosecurity Queensland, Queensland 
Department of Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry, Toowoomba, Queensland, 
Australia (Gavey)Central Institute for Research on Goats, Makhdoom, District of 
Mathura, Uttar Pradesh, India (Singh) jane.oakey@daff.qld.gov.au.
(2)Biosecurity Sciences Laboratory, Biosecurity Queensland, Queensland 
Department of Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry, Coopers Plains, Queensland, 
Australia (Oakey, Platell, Waltisbuhl)Biosecurity Queensland, Queensland 
Department of Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry, Toowoomba, Queensland, 
Australia (Gavey)Central Institute for Research on Goats, Makhdoom, District of 
Mathura, Uttar Pradesh, India (Singh).

The application of variable-number tandem repeats (VNTR) genotyping of 
Mycobacterium avium subsp. paratuberculosis isolates to assist in investigating 
incidents of bovine Johne's disease in a low-prevalence region of Australia is 
described in the current study. Isolates from a response to detection of bovine 
Johne's disease in Queensland were compared with strains from national and 
international sources. The tandem application of mycobacterial interspersed 
repetitive unit (MIRU) and multilocus short sequence repeats (MLSSR) genotyping 
identified 2 strains, 1 that infected cattle on multiple properties with 
trace-forward histories from a common infected property, and 1 genotypically 
different strain recovered from a single property. The former strain showed an 
identical genotype to an isolate from India. Neither strain showed a genotypic 
link to regions of Australia with a higher prevalence of the disease. Genotyping 
has indicated incursions from 2 independent sources. This intelligence has 
informed investigations into potential routes of entry and the soundness of 
ongoing control measures, and supported strategy and policy decisions regarding 
management of Mycobacterium avium subsp. paratuberculosis incursions for 
Queensland.

© 2014 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1177/1040638714547257
PMID: 25139793 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1127. ScientificWorldJournal. 2014;2014:960584. doi: 10.1155/2014/960584. Epub 2014 
Jul 16.

Reinforcement learning for routing in cognitive radio ad hoc networks.

Al-Rawi HA(1), Yau KL(1), Mohamad H(2), Ramli N(2), Hashim W(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Computer Science and Networked Systems, Sunway University, No. 
5 Jalan Universiti, Bandar Sunway, 46150 Petaling Jaya, Selangor, Malaysia.
(2)Wireless Network and Protocol Research Lab, MIMOS Berhad, Technology Park 
Malaysia, 57000 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.

Cognitive radio (CR) enables unlicensed users (or secondary users, SUs) to sense 
for and exploit underutilized licensed spectrum owned by the licensed users (or 
primary users, PUs). Reinforcement learning (RL) is an artificial intelligence 
approach that enables a node to observe, learn, and make appropriate decisions 
on action selection in order to maximize network performance. Routing enables a 
source node to search for a least-cost route to its destination node. While 
there have been increasing efforts to enhance the traditional RL approach for 
routing in wireless networks, this research area remains largely unexplored in 
the domain of routing in CR networks. This paper applies RL in routing and 
investigates the effects of various features of RL (i.e., reward function, 
exploitation, and exploration, as well as learning rate) through simulation. New 
approaches and recommendations are proposed to enhance the features in order to 
improve the network performance brought about by RL to routing. Simulation 
results show that the RL parameters of the reward function, exploitation, and 
exploration, as well as learning rate, must be well regulated, and the new 
approaches proposed in this paper improves SUs' network performance without 
significantly jeopardizing PUs' network performance, specifically SUs' 
interference to PUs.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/960584
PMCID: PMC4128325
PMID: 25140350 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1128. Hum Factors. 2014 Aug;56(5):816-24. doi: 10.1177/0018720814538815.

Using noninvasive brain stimulation to accelerate learning and enhance human 
performance.

Parasuraman R, McKinley RA.

OBJECTIVE: The authors evaluate the effectiveness of noninvasive brain 
stimulation, in particular, transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS), for 
accelerating learning and enhancing human performance on complex tasks.
BACKGROUND: Developing expertise in complex tasks typically requires extended 
training and practice. Neuroergonomics research has suggested new methods that 
can accelerate learning and boost human performance. TDCS is one such method. It 
involves the application of a weak DC current to the scalp and has the potential 
to modulate brain networks underlying the performance of a perceptual, 
cognitive, or motor task.
METHOD: Examples of tDCS studies of declarative and procedural learning are 
discussed. This mini-review focuses on studies employing complex simulations 
representative of surveillance and security operations, intelligence analysis, 
and procedural learning in complex monitoring.
RESULTS: The evidence supports the view that tDCS can accelerate learning and 
enhance performance in a range of complex cognitive tasks. Initial findings also 
suggest that such benefits can be retained over time, but additional research is 
needed on training schedules and transfer of training.
CONCLUSION: Noninvasive brain stimulation can accelerate skill acquisition in 
complex tasks and may provide an alternative or addition to other training 
methods.

DOI: 10.1177/0018720814538815
PMID: 25141590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1129. NPJ Prim Care Respir Med. 2014 Aug 21;24(0):14035. doi: 10.1038/npjpcrm.2014.35.

Reducing hospital admissions and improving the diagnosis of COPD in Southampton 
City: methods and results of a 12-month service improvement project.

Wilkinson T(1), North M(2), Bourne SC(2).

Author information:
(1)1] University Hospital Southampton, Southampton, UK [2] Department of 
Clinical and Experimental Sciences, University of Southampton, Southampton, UK.
(2)University Hospital Southampton, Southampton, UK.

BACKGROUND: The British Lung Foundation highlighted Southampton City as a 
hotspot for patients at future risk of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 
(COPD) exacerbations due to severe deprivation levels and a high undiagnosed 
level of disease based on health economic modelling. We developed a strategy 
spanning primary and secondary care to reduce emergency admissions of patients 
with acute exacerbations of COPD and increase the diagnosed prevalence of COPD 
on general practitioner (GP) registers closer to that predicted from local 
modelling.
METHODS: A comprehensive 3-year audit of admissions was performed. Patients who 
had been admitted with an exacerbation to University Hospital Southampton three 
or more times in the previous 12 months were cohorted and cared for in a 
consultant-led, but community based, COPD service. Within primary care, a 
programme of education and case-based finding was delivered to most practices 
within the city.
RESULTS: Thirty-four patients were found to be responsible for 176 admissions 
(22% of total COPD admissions) to the hospital. These 34 patients required 185 
active interventions during the 12-month period but only 39 hospital admissions. 
The 30-day readmission rate dropped from 13.4 to 1.9% (P<0.01), confirming the 
contribution the cohort made to readmissions. Prior to the project, the 
registered Quality Outcomes Framework prevalence of COPD within the city was 
1.5; after just 1 year of the project, the prevalence increased from 1.5 to 
2.27%.
CONCLUSIONS: The use of medical intelligence to investigate the underlying 
processes of COPD hospital admissions led to an effective intervention delivered 
in a consultant-led model.

DOI: 10.1038/npjpcrm.2014.35
PMCID: PMC4532163
PMID: 25141877 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1130. Eur Arch Psychiatry Clin Neurosci. 2015 Feb;265(1):35-43. doi: 
10.1007/s00406-014-0519-3. Epub 2014 Aug 21.

The effects of life stress and neural learning signals on fluid intelligence.

Friedel E(1), Schlagenhauf F, Beck A, Dolan RJ, Huys QJ, Rapp MA, Heinz A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, Charité - Universitätsmedizin 
Berlin, Campus Charité Mitte, Charitéplatz 1, 10117, Berlin, Germany.

Fluid intelligence (fluid IQ), defined as the capacity for rapid problem solving 
and behavioral adaptation, is known to be modulated by learning and experience. 
Both stressful life events (SLES) and neural correlates of learning 
[specifically, a key mediator of adaptive learning in the brain, namely the 
ventral striatal representation of prediction errors (PE)] have been shown to be 
associated with individual differences in fluid IQ. Here, we examine the 
interaction between adaptive learning signals (using a well-characterized 
probabilistic reversal learning task in combination with fMRI) and SLES on fluid 
IQ measures. We find that the correlation between ventral striatal BOLD PE and 
fluid IQ, which we have previously reported, is quantitatively modulated by the 
amount of reported SLES. Thus, after experiencing adversity, basic neuronal 
learning signatures appear to align more closely with a general measure of 
flexible learning (fluid IQ), a finding complementing studies on the effects of 
acute stress on learning. The results suggest that an understanding of the 
neurobiological correlates of trait variables like fluid IQ needs to take 
socioemotional influences such as chronic stress into account.

DOI: 10.1007/s00406-014-0519-3
PMCID: PMC4311068
PMID: 25142177 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1131. Electrophoresis. 2014 Nov;35(21-22):3036-43. doi: 10.1002/elps.201400089. Epub 
2014 Oct 1.

Assessment of high resolution melting analysis as a potential SNP genotyping 
technique in forensic casework.

Venables SJ(1), Mehta B, Daniel R, Walsh SJ, van Oorschot RA, McNevin D.

Author information:
(1)National Centre for Forensic Studies, Faculty of Education, Science, 
Technology and Mathematics, University of Canberra, Canberra, Australia.

High resolution melting (HRM) analysis is a simple, cost effective, closed tube 
SNP genotyping technique with high throughput potential. The effectiveness of 
HRM for forensic SNP genotyping was assessed with five commercially available 
HRM kits evaluated on the ViiA™ 7 Real Time PCR instrument. Four kits performed 
satisfactorily against forensically relevant criteria. One was further assessed 
to determine the sensitivity, reproducibility, and accuracy of HRM SNP 
genotyping. The manufacturer's protocol using 0.5 ng input DNA and 45 PCR cycles 
produced accurate and reproducible results for 17 of the 19 SNPs examined. 
Problematic SNPs had GC rich flanking regions which introduced additional 
melting domains into the melting curve (rs1800407) or included homozygotes that 
were difficult to distinguish reliably (rs16891982; a G to C SNP). A proof of 
concept multiplexing experiment revealed that multiplexing a small number of 
SNPs may be possible after further investigation. HRM enables genotyping of a 
number of SNPs in a large number of samples without extensive optimization. 
However, it requires more genomic DNA as template in comparison to SNaPshot®. 
Furthermore, suitably modifying pre-existing forensic intelligence SNP panels 
for HRM analysis may pose difficulties due to the properties of some SNPs.

© 2014 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

DOI: 10.1002/elps.201400089
PMID: 25142205 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1132. J Hum Genet. 2014 Oct;59(10):563-7. doi: 10.1038/jhg.2014.73. Epub 2014 Aug 21.

Three novel mutations of the FBN1 gene in Chinese children with acromelic 
dysplasia.

Wang Y(1), Zhang H(1), Ye J(1), Han L(1), Gu X(1).

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Endocrinology and Genetic Metabolism, Xinhua Hospital, Shanghai 
Institute for Pediatric Research, Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of 
Medicine, Shanghai, China.

Geleophysic dysplasia (GD), acromicric dysplasia (AD) and Weill-Marchesani 
syndrome (WMS) are rare disorders with overlapping characteristics, such as 
short stature, short hands and feet, joint limitations, skin thickening, mild 
facial anomalies, normal intelligence and abnormal skeletal symptoms, with GD 
distinct by progressive cardiac valvular thickening and WMS distinct by 
microspherophakia and ectopia lentis. Mutations in FBN1 gene have been 
identified in AD, GD and WMS patients. By targeted next-generation sequencing of 
skeletal dysplasia-related genes, including FBN1 and ADAMTSL2, three novel 
missense mutations, c.5189A>T (p.N1730I), c.5198G>T (p.C1733F), c.5243G>T 
(p.C1748F), and one known mutation c.5198G>A (p.C1733Y) of FBN1 gene were 
identified in four probands, respectively. Clinically, p.C1733Y was associated 
with GD, as reported previously, as well as the novel p.N1730I, whereas p.C1733F 
and p.C1748F were associated with AD and WMS. Interestingly, different mutations 
at the same codon (p.C1733Y and p.C1733F) were associated with different 
phenotypes (GD and AD, respectively). However, the mutations p.C1748F and 
p.C1748R were associated with WMS. Our data support the importance of 
TGFβ-binding protein-like domain 5 of FBN1 protein in pathogenicity of acromelic 
dysplasia, and expands the genotype/phenotype relations of these rare forms of 
fibrilliopathies.

DOI: 10.1038/jhg.2014.73
PMID: 25142510 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1133. Sleep. 2014 Sep 1;37(9):1501-12. doi: 10.5665/sleep.4000.

Slow sleep spindle activity, declarative memory, and general cognitive abilities 
in children.

Hoedlmoser K, Heib DP, Roell J, Peigneux P, Sadeh A, Gruber G, Schabus M.

STUDY OBJECTIVES: Functional interactions between sleep spindle activity, 
declarative memory consolidation, and general cognitive abilities in school-aged 
children.
DESIGN: Healthy, prepubertal children (n = 63; mean age 9.56 ± 0.76 y); 
ambulatory all-night polysomnography (2 nights); investigating the effect of 
prior learning (word pair association task; experimental night) versus 
nonlearning (baseline night) on sleep spindle activity; general cognitive 
abilities assessed using the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children-IV 
(WISC-IV).
MEASUREMENTS AND RESULTS: Analysis of spindle activity during nonrapid eye 
movement sleep (N2 and N3) evidenced predominant peaks in the slow (11-13 Hz) 
but not in the fast (13-15 Hz) sleep spindle frequency range (baseline and 
experimental night). Analyses were restricted to slow sleep spindles. Changes in 
spindle activity from the baseline to the experimental night were not associated 
with the overnight change in the number of recalled words reflecting declarative 
memory consolidation. Children with higher sleep spindle activity as measured at 
frontal, central, parietal, and occipital sites during both baseline and 
experimental nights exhibited higher general cognitive abilities (WISC-IV) and 
declarative learning efficiency (i.e., number of recalled words before and after 
sleep).
CONCLUSIONS: Slow sleep spindles (11-13 Hz) in children age 8-11 y are 
associated with inter-individual differences in general cognitive abilities and 
learning efficiency.

© 2014 Associated Professional Sleep Societies, LLC.

DOI: 10.5665/sleep.4000
PMCID: PMC4153050
PMID: 25142558 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1134. Psychol Sci. 2014 Oct;25(10):1843-50. doi: 10.1177/0956797614540686. Epub 2014 
Aug 20.

Genes influence young children's human figure drawings and their association 
with intelligence a decade later.

Arden R(1), Trzaskowski M(2), Garfield V(3), Plomin R(2).

Author information:
(1)MRC Social, Genetic and Developmental Psychiatry Centre, Institute of 
Psychiatry, King's College London rosalind.arden@kcl.ac.uk.
(2)MRC Social, Genetic and Developmental Psychiatry Centre, Institute of 
Psychiatry, King's College London.
(3)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, University College London.

Drawing is ancient; it is the only childhood cognitive behavior for which there 
is any direct evidence from the Upper Paleolithic. Do genes influence individual 
differences in this species-typical behavior, and is drawing related to 
intelligence (g) in modern children? We report on the first genetically 
informative study of children's figure drawing. In a study of 7,752 pairs of 
twins, we found that genetic differences exert a greater influence on children's 
figure drawing at age 4 than do between-family environmental differences. Figure 
drawing was as heritable as g at age 4 (heritability of .29 for both). Drawing 
scores at age 4 correlated significantly with g at age 4 (r = .33, p < .001, n = 
14,050) and with g at age 14 (r = .20, p < .001, n = 4,622). The genetic 
correlation between drawing at age 4 and g at age 14 was .52, 95% confidence 
interval = [.31, .75]. Individual differences in this widespread behavior have 
an important genetic component and a significant genetic link with g.

© The Author(s) 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/0956797614540686
PMCID: PMC4232264
PMID: 25143430 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting Interests: The 
authors declared that they had no conflicts of interest with respect to their 
authorship or the publication of this article.


1135. Iran J Child Neurol. 2014 Summer;8(3):44-8.

IQ Score of Children with Persistent or Perennial Allergic Rhinitis: A 
Comparison with Healthy Children.

Ghaffari J(1), Abbaskhanian A(2), Jalili M(3), Yazdani Charati J(4).

Author information:
(1)Allergy & Clinical Immunology Department, Mazandaran University of Medical 
Sciences, Sari, Iran.
(2)Department of Pediatric Neurolog, Mazandaran University of Medical Sciences, 
Sari, Iran.
(3)Masters in Psychology, Mazandaran University of Medical Sciences, Sari, Iran.
(4)Department of Biostatistics, Faculty of Health, Mazandaran University of 
Medical Science, Sari, Iran.

OBJECTIVE: Prevalence of allergies is different around the world. Allergic 
rhinitis is a common chronic disease in children. Intelligence quotient (IQ) is 
an indicator of efficacy and many factors including chronic diseases may affect 
it. This study compares the IQs of children diagnosed with persistent or 
perennial allergic rhinitis with healthy children.
MATERIAL & METHODS: This was a comparative study that was conducted from June 
2011-May 2013 in an academic referral clinic. In this study, 90 patients aged 6- 
to 14-yearsold who were diagnosed with persistent or perennial allergic rhinitis 
and were compared to 90 age and gender match healthy patients from their 
respective families. The Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children was used to 
divide and calculate overall IQ, verbal IQ, and practical IQ. The t-test and chi 
square were used to analyze quantitative variables and qualitative variables, 
respectively.
RESULTS: In this study, out of total 180 children, 90 (50%) in the case group 
and 90 children (50%), the control group participated for IQ comparison. One 
hundred (57%) were male and 80 (43%) were female. The overall IQ for allergic 
rhinitis patients and healthy patients was 109.2 and 107.5, respectively. This 
difference was not considered significant. Furthermore, there was no significant 
difference between the IQ scores of males and females.
CONCLUSION: Although allergic rhinitis is a chronic disease and effects quality 
of life, there were no identifiable negative effects on IQ.

PMCID: PMC4135280
PMID: 25143773


1136. Chest. 2014 Dec;146(6):1586-1593. doi: 10.1378/chest.14-0681.

Integrated use of bedside lung ultrasound and echocardiography in acute 
respiratory failure: a prospective observational study in ICU.

Bataille B(1), Riu B(2), Ferre F(2), Moussot PE(1), Mari A(2), Brunel E(2), Ruiz 
J(2), Mora M(1), Fourcade O(3), Genestal M(2), Silva S(4).

Author information:
(1)Réanimation Polyvalente, CHR Hotel Dieu, Narbonne, France.
(2)Réanimation Polyvalente et Médecine Hyperbare, CHU Purpan, Toulouse, France; 
Pôle Anesthésie-Réanimation, CHU Purpan, Toulouse, France.
(3)Pôle Anesthésie-Réanimation, CHU Purpan, Toulouse, France.
(4)Réanimation Polyvalente et Médecine Hyperbare, CHU Purpan, Toulouse, France; 
Pôle Anesthésie-Réanimation, CHU Purpan, Toulouse, France; INSERM U825, CHU 
Purpan, Toulouse, France. Electronic address: silvastein@me.com.

Comment in
    Chest. 2014 Dec;146(6):e230.
    Chest. 2014 Dec;146(6):e230-1.
    Chest. 2015 Jun;147(6):e236-7.
    Chest. 2015 Jun;147(6):e237.
    Chest. 2016 Oct;150(4):986-987.

BACKGROUND: It has been suggested that the complementary use of echocardiography 
could improve the diagnostic accuracy of lung ultrasonography (LUS) in patients 
with acute respiratory failure (ARF). Nevertheless, the additional diagnostic 
value of echocardiographic data when coupled with LUS is still debated in this 
setting. The aim of the current study was to compare the diagnostic accuracy of 
LUS and an integrative cardiopulmonary ultrasound approach (thoracic 
ultrasonography [TUS]) in patients with ARF.
METHODS: We prospectively recruited patients consecutively admitted for ARF to 
the ICU of a university teaching hospital over a 12-month period. Inclusion 
criteria were age ≥ 18 years and the presence of criteria for severe ARF 
justifying ICU admission. We compared both LUS and TUS approaches and the final 
diagnosis determined by a panel of experts using machine learning methods to 
improve the accuracy of the final diagnostic classifiers.
RESULTS: One hundred thirty-six patients were included (age, 68 ± 15 years; sex 
ratio, 1). A three-dimensional partial least squares and multinomial logistic 
regression model was developed and subsequently tested in an independent sample 
of patients. Overall, the diagnostic accuracy of TUS was significantly greater 
than LUS (P < .05, learning and test sample). Comparisons between receiver 
operating characteristic curves showed that TUS significantly improves the 
diagnosis of cardiogenic edema (P < .001, learning and test samples), pneumonia 
(P < .001, learning and test samples), and pulmonary embolism (P < .001, 
learning sample).
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrated for the first time to our knowledge a 
significantly better performance of TUS than LUS in the diagnosis of ARF. The 
value of the TUS approach was particularly important to disambiguate cases of 
hemodynamic pulmonary edema and pneumonia. We suggest that the bedside use of 
artificial intelligence methods in this setting could pave the way for the 
development of new clinically relevant integrative diagnostic models.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.14-0681
PMID: 25144893 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1137. Coll Antropol. 2014 Jun;38(2):397-408.

Sex-specific age-related changes of information processing rate indicators 
during childhood and adolescence.

Zebec MS, Budimir S, Merkas M, Szirovicza L, Zivicnjak M.

Despite the relevant findings on non-average information processing rate (IPR) 
indicators-intelligence relation, and on age-related changes of some of these 
indicators during aging, the research on sex-specific age-related changes of 
these indicators during childhood and adolescence are lacking. In a transversal 
study, 1197 school children (598 girls) aged 8-18 have been individually 
measured on 5 IPR indicators--two averages (mean_t, median_t) and three 
non-averages (min_t, max_t, sd_t). The results corroborated the expected 
non-linear changes of average IPR indicators in the observed developmental 
period, whereby the sex difference in related developmental patterns was 
detected: marked age-related decrement in girls ceased at the age of 12, and in 
boys around the age of 13-14, after which progress in both sexes gradually 
ceased by the age of 18 and was less pronounced in girls. Generally similar 
non-linear age-related decrements of non-average indicators were registered, but 
they showed mutual intensity differences at specific ages and sex difference in 
developmental patterns was detected, analogously to average indicators. 
Systematic sex differences in the whole observed period were obtained only in 
two non-average indicators: girls showed minor sd_t and boys showed minor min_t. 
In specific age groups, a number of sex differences were obtained that are 
explainable by two possible mechanisms: earlier maturation in girls and sex bias 
of the IPR task content. The justifiability of separate, average and 
non-average, IPR indicators application was corroborated by their distribution 
form differences, by mutual, predominantly low and medium correlations, by the 
different intensity of their developmental changes and by their different 
ability to detect sex differences. For all registered phenomena, the theoretical 
and/or empirical explanations were offered from the domain of sex specific 
intellectual, motor and neural development, and it has been shown that 
non-average IPR indicators do register age and sex differences, which average 
indicators do not manage to register.

PMID: 25144966 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1138. Healthc Financ Manage. 2014 Aug;68(8):64-8.

Improving clinicians' access to cost data.

Kenagy J, Shah B.

Bringing clinical and financial data together is critical to effectively running 
and operating service lines. Helping clinicians use cost data to make decisions 
requires a shared vision and a partnership between finance leaders and 
physicians. Hosting a "jam session" of technical, financial, and clinical 
experts can accelerate an organization's business intelligence strategy. Labor 
and supply costs represent the most actionable cost data for clinicians. 
Clinician buy-in hinges on education and support. It is important to focus on 
easy wins at the beginning of the project.

PMID: 25145033 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1139. J Adolesc. 2014 Oct;37(7):1069-76. doi: 10.1016/j.adolescence.2014.07.016. Epub 
2014 Aug 21.

The relationship between perceived emotional intelligence and depressive 
symptomatology: the mediating role of perceived stress.

Lombas AS(1), Martín-Albo J(2), Valdivia-Salas S(3), Jiménez TI(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology and Sociology, University of Zaragoza, C/ Ciudad 
Escolar s/n, 44003, Teruel, Spain. Electronic address: slombas@unizar.es.
(2)Department of Psychology and Sociology, University of Zaragoza, C/ Ciudad 
Escolar s/n, 44003, Teruel, Spain. Electronic address: jmartina@unizar.es.
(3)Department of Psychology and Sociology, University of Zaragoza, C/ Ciudad 
Escolar s/n, 44003, Teruel, Spain. Electronic address: sonsoval@unizar.es.
(4)Department of Psychology and Sociology, University of Zaragoza, C/ Ciudad 
Escolar s/n, 44003, Teruel, Spain. Electronic address: tijimgut@unizar.es.

This study investigated the mediating role of perceived stress in the 
relationship between perceived emotional intelligence and depressive symptoms in 
adolescence. A total of 661 high school Spanish students participated in the 
study. The analyses indicated that the effects of each of the perceived 
emotional intelligence sub-scales (namely, Attention, Clarity and Repair) on 
depressive symptomatology were partially mediated by perceived stress. 
Specifically, the mediating effect was negative for Clarity and Repair, but 
positive for attention. The analysis also showed that the direct effects were 
positive for all sub-scales. These results suggest that the promotion of stress 
management skills may be core in the development of prevention and treatment 
programs for depression in adolescents, and possibly more beneficial than the 
promotion of emotion regulation skills. Our findings, along with previous 
evidence, suggest that emotional attention, as measured in the present study, 
may be targeting a pathological type of attention.

Copyright © 2014 The Foundation for Professionals in Services for Adolescents. 
Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.adolescence.2014.07.016
PMID: 25147137 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1140. ScientificWorldJournal. 2014;2014:724639. doi: 10.1155/2014/724639. Epub 2014 
Jul 22.

Null steering of adaptive beamforming using linear constraint minimum variance 
assisted by particle swarm optimization, dynamic mutated artificial immune 
system, and gravitational search algorithm.

Darzi S(1), Kiong TS(2), Islam MT(1), Ismail M(1), Kibria S(3), Salem B(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Electrical, Electronic & Systems Engineering, Universiti 
Kebangsaan Malaysia, 43600 Bangi, Selangor, Malaysia.
(2)Power Engineering Center & Center of System and Machine Intelligence, College 
of Engineering, Universiti Tenaga Nasional, 43000 Kajang, Selangor, Malaysia.
(3)Space Science Center (ANGKASA), Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia, 43600 Bangi, 
Selangor, Malaysia.

Linear constraint minimum variance (LCMV) is one of the adaptive beamforming 
techniques that is commonly applied to cancel interfering signals and steer or 
produce a strong beam to the desired signal through its computed weight vectors. 
However, weights computed by LCMV usually are not able to form the radiation 
beam towards the target user precisely and not good enough to reduce the 
interference by placing null at the interference sources. It is difficult to 
improve and optimize the LCMV beamforming technique through conventional 
empirical approach. To provide a solution to this problem, artificial 
intelligence (AI) technique is explored in order to enhance the LCMV beamforming 
ability. In this paper, particle swarm optimization (PSO), dynamic mutated 
artificial immune system (DM-AIS), and gravitational search algorithm (GSA) are 
incorporated into the existing LCMV technique in order to improve the weights of 
LCMV. The simulation result demonstrates that received signal to interference 
and noise ratio (SINR) of target user can be significantly improved by the 
integration of PSO, DM-AIS, and GSA in LCMV through the suppression of 
interference in undesired direction. Furthermore, the proposed GSA can be 
applied as a more effective technique in LCMV beamforming optimization as 
compared to the PSO technique. The algorithms were implemented using Matlab 
program.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/724639
PMCID: PMC4132335
PMID: 25147859 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1141. J Orthop Trauma. 2014 Sep;28 Suppl 9:S9-11. doi: 10.1097/BOT.0000000000000177.

Improving business IQ in medicine through mentorship and education.

Hill AD(1).

Author information:
(1)Austin Skeletal Trauma Specialists, Austin, TX.

Business intelligence in the field of medicine, particularly with physicians, 
has been an abstract concept at best with no objective metric. Furthermore, in 
many arenas, it was taboo for medical students, residents, and physicians to 
discuss the business and finances of their work for fear that it would interfere 
with their sacred duties as health care providers. There has been a substantial 
shift in this philosophy over the last few decades with the growth and evolution 
of the health care industry in the United States. In 2012, health care 
expenditures accounted for 17.2% of the United States Gross Domestic Product, 
averaging $8915 per person. The passage of the Affordable Care Act in March of 
2010 sent a clear message to all that change is coming, and it is more important 
now than ever to have physician leaders whose skills and knowledge in business, 
management, and health care law rival their acumen within their medical 
practice. Students, residents, and fellows all express a desire to gain more 
business knowledge throughout their education and training, but many do not know 
where to begin or have access to programs that can further their knowledge. 
Whether you are an employed or private practice physician, academic or community 
based, improving your business intelligence will help you get a seat at the 
table where decisions are made and give you the skills to influence those 
decisions.

DOI: 10.1097/BOT.0000000000000177
PMID: 25148000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1142. Subst Abus. 2014;35(4):387-90. doi: 10.1080/08897077.2014.954027.

Working memory impairment in cannabis- and opioid-dependent adolescents.

Vo HT(1), Schacht R, Mintzer M, Fishman M.

Author information:
(1)a Mountain Manor Treatment Center , Baltimore , Maryland , USA.

BACKGROUND: Cannabis and opioid use are associated with cognitive impairment, 
whether preexisting or substance-induced, but there have been few 
substance-specific assessments of cognitive functioning in adolescent substance 
users. Working memory impairment may be particularly important, as it has been 
linked to poorer performance in substance abuse treatment.
METHODS: Working memory (Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children-IV or Adult 
Intelligence Scale-IV) and baseline substance use were assessed in 42 youth 
(mean age = 17.9 years, SD = 1.3, range: 16-20; 65% Caucasian, 30% female) 1-2 
weeks after admission to residential treatment with supervised abstinence, 19 
for primary cannabis dependence and 23 for primary opioid dependence.
RESULTS: There were substantial deficits in working memory in both groups, with 
significant differences (P < .001) between the opioid (M = 39.1th%ile, SD = 
25.6) and cannabis (M = 16.3th%ile, SD = 13.6) groups. The primary opioid group 
had high rates of cannabis use, with no significant difference in past-month 
days of cannabis use from the primary cannabis group. The opioid group was older 
and had completed more years of formal education. Seventy-nine percent of the 
cannabis group had public health care coverage (mostly Medicaid), compared with 
24% of the opioid sample.
CONCLUSIONS: Working memory impairment was substantial in treatment-seeking 
youth with primary cannabis and opioid dependence (the latter actually having 
comparable rates of cannabis use), and significantly more pronounced in the 
primary cannabis-dependent group. Without an assessment of working memory prior 
to substance exposure, the differential contributions of substance-induced vs. 
preexisting impairment are unclear. Lower scores in the cannabis group may 
reflect lower socioeconomic status (SES), which is typically correlated with 
cognitive performance. These findings highlight underrecognized cognitive 
impairment in youth with SUDs, especially inner-city cannabis-dependent youth. 
Modification of treatments to account for cognitive capacity and/or cognitive 
remediation interventions may be indicated to improve treatment outcomes.

DOI: 10.1080/08897077.2014.954027
PMID: 25148203 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1143. Biol Psychol. 2014 Dec;103:27-37. doi: 10.1016/j.biopsycho.2014.08.004. Epub 
2014 Aug 18.

Mindset induction effects on cognitive control: a neurobehavioral investigation.

Schroder HS(1), Moran TP(2), Donnellan MB(2), Moser JS(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Michigan State University, United States. 
Electronic address: schrod16@msu.edu.
(2)Department of Psychology, Michigan State University, United States.

Messages about how much our abilities can change - or "mindset" messages - 
affect learning, achievement, and performance interpretations. However, the 
neurocognitive mechanisms responsible for these effects remain unexplored. To 
address this gap, we assessed how a mindset induction influenced cognitive 
control brain activity. Participants were randomly assigned to read that 
intelligence was either malleable (growth-mindset condition) or immutable 
(fixed-mindset condition) before completing a reaction-time task while 
electroencephalogram was recorded. Findings revealed that inducing a growth 
mindset resulted in enhanced attention to task-relevant stimuli, whereas 
inducing a fixed mindset enhanced attention to responses. Despite enhanced 
attention to responses in the fixed mindset group, this attention allocation was 
unrelated to adaptive performance adjustments. In contrast, the growth mindset 
induction produced a relatively strong coupling between error-related attention 
allocation and adaptive post-error performance. These results suggest that 
growth- and fixed-mindset messages have differential effects on the neural 
dynamics underlying cognitive control.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopsycho.2014.08.004
PMID: 25149141 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1144. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2014 Nov 1;90(3):547-53. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijrobp.2014.06.043. Epub 2014 Aug 19.

Effect of cerebellum radiation dosimetry on cognitive outcomes in children with 
infratentorial ependymoma.

Merchant TE(1), Sharma S(2), Xiong X(3), Wu S(3), Conklin H(4).

Author information:
(1)Division of Radiation Oncology, St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, 
Memphis, Tennessee. Electronic address: thomas.merchant@stjude.org.
(2)Division of Radiation Oncology, St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, 
Memphis, Tennessee.
(3)Department of Biostatistics, St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, Memphis, 
Tennessee.
(4)Department of Psychology, St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, Memphis, 
Tennessee.

PURPOSE: Cognitive decline is a recognized effect of radiation therapy (RT) in 
children treated for brain tumors. The importance of the cerebellum and its 
contribution to cognition have been recognized; however, the effect of RT on 
cerebellum-linked neurocognitive deficits has yet to be explored.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: Seventy-six children (39 males) at a median 3.3 years of 
age (range, 1-17 years old) were irradiated for infratentorial ependymoma from 
1997 to 2008. The total prescribed dose was 54 to 59.4 Gy administered to the 
postoperative tumor bed with 5- or 10-mm clinical target volume margin. 
Age-appropriate cognitive and academic testing was performed prior to the start 
of RT and was then repeated at 6 months and annually throughout 5 years. The 
anterior and posterior cerebellum and other normal brain volumes were contoured 
on postcontrast, T1-weighted postoperative magnetic resonance images registered 
to treatment planning computed tomography images. Mean doses were calculated and 
used with time after RT and other clinical covariates to model their effect on 
neurocognitive test scores.
RESULTS: Considering only the statistically significant rates in longitudinal 
changes for test scores and models that included mean dose, there was a 
correlation between mean infratentorial dose and intelligence quotient (IQ; 
-0.190 patients/Gy/year; P=.001), math (-0.164 patients/Gy/year; P=.010), 
reading (-0.137 patients/Gy/year; P=.011), and spelling scores (-0.147 
patients/Gy/year; P=.012), where Gy was measured as the difference between the 
mean dose received by an individual patient and the mean dose received by the 
patient group. There was a correlation between mean anterior cerebellum dose and 
IQ scores (-0.116 patients/Gy/year; P=.042) and mean posterior cerebellum dose 
and IQ (-0.150 patients/Gy/year; P=.002), math (-0.120 patients/Gy/year; 
P=.023), reading (-0.111 patients/Gy/year; P=.012), and spelling (-0.117 
patients/Gy/year; P=.015) scores.
CONCLUSIONS: Sparing portions of the cerebellum should be considered in RT 
planning for children with infratentorial ependymoma because of the potential 
impact of radiation dose on cognitive function.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijrobp.2014.06.043
PMCID: PMC4705097
PMID: 25149660 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1145. Hist Psychol. 2014 Aug;17(3):187-205. doi: 10.1037/a0035954.

A psychology for pedagogy: intelligence testing in USSR in the 1920s.

Leopoldoff I(1).

Author information:
(1)Université de Genève.

This article examines a case of intelligence testing conducted in the mid-1920s, 
while considering the broader political and scientific context of Soviet life. 
Guided by questions about the status and influence of mental measurement in 
Russian society, previously and after the revolution, as well as asking about 
the main actors in the fields linked to testing, such as psychology, pedagogy, 
and pedology, during this tumultuous period. To answer these questions, journals 
and difficult-to-access archival sources were used, which provided evidence 
regarding the enthusiasm psychological testing had on scholars in the 1920s and 
the institutional support they received for their surveys. The article offers 
some hints concerning why this was so and why this situation changed completely 
a decade later. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/a0035954
PMID: 25150809 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1146. Hist Psychol. 2014 Aug;17(3):249-55. doi: 10.1037/a0037475.

Mental testing in the early twentieth century: internationalizing the mental 
testing story.

Carson J(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Michigan.

This article suggests a possible approach to analyzing the global history of 
intelligence testing in light of some recent work in the history of science and 
science studies. In particular, it uses work in metrology and subaltern studies 
to develop possible models for the dissemination, appropriation, and 
transformation of mental testing in the early 20th century. It draws on the 
accounts presented in the other articles in this collection to substantiate its 
claims. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/a0037475
PMID: 25150810 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1147. Neuropsychology. 2015 Jan;29(1):91. doi: 10.1037/neu0000140. Epub 2014 Aug 25.

Correction to faridi et Al. (2014).

[No authors listed]

Erratum for
    Neuropsychology. 2015 Jan;29(1):82-91. White, Matthew [corrected to White, 
Matthew T].

Reports an error in "Neuroanatomical Correlates of Behavioral Rating Versus 
Performance Measures of Working Memory in Typically Developing Children and 
Adolescents" by Nazlie Faridi, Sherif Karama, Miguel Burgaleta, Matthew T. 
White, Alan C. Evans, Vladimir Fonov, D. Louis Collins and Deborah P. Waber 
(Neuropsychology, Advanced Online Publication, Jul 7, 2014, np). In the original 
version of the article, Matthew T. White's name was missing his middle initial. 
All versions of this article have been corrected. (The following abstract of the 
original article appeared in record 2014-27816-001.)
OBJECTIVE: The frequent lack of correspondence between performance and 
observational measures of executive functioning, including working memory, has 
raised questions about the validity of the observational measures. This study 
was conducted to investigate sources of this discrepancy through correlation of 
volumetric and cortical thickness (CT) neuroimaging values with performance and 
questionnaire measures of working memory (WM).
METHODS: Using longitudinal data from the NIH MRI Study of Normal Brain 
Development (Volumes, N= 347, 54.3% female; CT, N= 350, 54.6% female; age range: 
6 to 16.9 years), scores on the Behavioral Rating Inventory of Executive 
Function (BRIEF) WM, Emotional Control (EC) and Inhibition (INH) scales; 
Wechsler Scale of Intelligence for Children-III Digit Span; and Cambridge 
Neuropsychological Test Battery Spatial Working Memory (CANTAB SWM) were 
correlated with each other and with morphometric measurements using mixed 
effects linear regression models.
RESULTS: BRIEF WM was correlated with CANTAB SWM (p < .001). With whole brain 
correction, BRIEF WM and EC were both correlated with CT of the posterior 
parahippocampal gyrus (PHG), EC on the right side only. Performance measures of 
WM were unrelated to lobar volumes or CT, but were associated with volumes of 
hippocampus and amygdala.
CONCLUSIONS: The known role of PHG in contextual learning suggests that the 
BRIEF WM assesses contextualized learning/memory, potentially explaining its 
loose correspondence to the decontextualized performance measures. Observational 
measures can be useful and valid functional metrics, complementing performance 
measures. Labels used to characterize scales should be interpreted with caution, 
however. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2015 APA, all rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/neu0000140
PMID: 25151116


1148. Zhonghua Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2014 Jun 10;94(22):1701-4.

[Memory characteristic in boys with attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder 
comorbid learning disability].

[Article in Chinese]

Wu Z(1), Wang N(2), Qian Q, Yang L, Qian Y, Liu L, Liu Y, Cheng J, Sun L, Cao Q, 
Wang Y(3).

Author information:
(1)Research Department of Child Psychiatry, Peking University Sixth Hospital, 
Peking University Institute of Mental Health, Key Laboratory of Mental Health 
Ministry of Health, Beijing 100191, China.
(2)Department of Mental Health, Qiqihar Medical University, Qiqihar 161006, 
China.
(3)Research Department of Child Psychiatry, Peking University Sixth Hospital, 
Peking University Institute of Mental Health, Key Laboratory of Mental Health 
Ministry of Health, Beijing 100191, China. Email: wangyf@bjmu.edu.cn.

OBJECTIVE: To explore the memory characteristic in boys with 
attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) plus learning disability (LD).
METHODS: A total of 97 ADHD boys with comorbid LD (ADHD+LD), 97 ADHD boys 
without comorbid LD (ADHD-LD) and 97 healthy controls (based on the criteria of 
DSM-IV) were recruited from the outpatient clinic of Peking University Sixth 
Hospital from December 2003 to September 2012. Individuals across three groups 
were matched by ages, intelligence quotient (IQ) and ADHD subtypes. The Wechsler 
Memory Scale (WMS) was used to access the characteristics of several memory 
domains.
RESULTS: ADHD +LD group performed the worst and control group the best in memory 
quotient (MQ) (90 ± 15 vs 98 ± 14 & 104 ± 14) and long-term memory domain ((36.0 
± 10.2) vs (42.1 ± 7.8) & (45.6 ± 6.7) score, all P < 0.05) . ADHD+LD group 
scored significantly lower than the control group in short-term memory ( (53.0 ± 
9.2) vs (58.0 ± 9.7) score, P < 0.05) and immediate memory domains ((10.0 ± 3.3) 
vs (11.3 ± 3.5) score, P < 0.05). However, ADHD+LD group scored slightly but not 
significantly lower than the ADHD-LD group ((54.9 ± 10.7),(10.8 ± 3.2) score, P 
> 0.05). In most subscales of WMS, ADHD+LD group scored significantly lower than 
both ADHD-LD and control group in current information and orientation, mental 
control (1→100) , mental control (100→1) and associate learning subscales ( (8.8 
± 3.1) vs (10.0 ± 3.0) & (9.9 ± 2.3) score, (8.7 ± 4.1) vs (10.0 ± 3.9) & (11.1 
± 3.6) score, (10.7 ± 3.9) vs (12.9 ± 2.8) & (13.7 ± 2.2) score, (9.8 ± 3.1) vs 
(10.8 ± 2.6) & (11.1 ± 2.1) score, all P < 0.05) . In mental control 
(accumulation) subscale, all pairwise comparisons were statistically significant 
(all P < 0.05) . In subscales of figure memory, visual reproduction and digit 
span, ADHD+LD scored significantly lower than the control group (all P < 0.05), 
but not the ADHD-LD group (all P > 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Boys with ADHD comorbid LD show deficits in overall memory function 
and long-term memory while short-term memory is partially damaged. Impairment in 
immediate memory is not detected.

PMID: 25151898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1149. Healthc Inform Res. 2014 Jul;20(3):163-72. doi: 10.4258/hir.2014.20.3.163. Epub 
2014 Jul 31.

Detailed clinical models: representing knowledge, data and semantics in 
healthcare information technology.

Goossen WT(1).

Author information:
(1)Results4Care B.V., Amersfoort, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVES: This paper will present an overview of the developmental effort in 
harmonizing clinical knowledge modeling using the Detailed Clinical Models 
(DCMs), and will explain how it can contribute to the preservation of Electronic 
Health Records (EHR) data.
METHODS: Clinical knowledge modeling is vital for the management and 
preservation of EHR and data. Such modeling provides common data elements and 
terminology binding with the intention of capturing and managing clinical 
information over time and location independent from technology. Any EHR data 
exchange without an agreed clinical knowledge modeling will potentially result 
in loss of information.
RESULTS: Many attempts exist from the past to model clinical knowledge for the 
benefits of semantic interoperability using standardized data representation and 
common terminologies. The objective of each project is similar with respect to 
consistent representation of clinical data, using standardized terminologies, 
and an overall logical approach. However, the conceptual, logical, and the 
technical expressions are quite different in one clinical knowledge modeling 
approach versus another. There currently are synergies under the Clinical 
Information Modeling Initiative (CIMI) in order to create a harmonized reference 
model for clinical knowledge models.
CONCLUSIONS: The goal for the CIMI is to create a reference model and formalisms 
based on for instance the DCM (ISO/TS 13972), among other work. A global 
repository of DCMs may potentially be established in the future.

DOI: 10.4258/hir.2014.20.3.163
PMCID: PMC4141130
PMID: 25152829

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest relevant to 
this article was reported.


1150. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2014 Aug 21;11(8):8597-611. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph110808597.

Artificial intelligence in public health prevention of legionelosis in drinking 
water systems.

Sinčak P(1), Ondo J(2), Kaposztasova D(3), Virčikova M(4), Vranayova Z(5), Sabol 
J(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cybernetics and Artificial Intelligence, Faculty of Electrical 
Engineering and Informatics, Technical University of Kosice, Letná St. 9, Košice 
04001, Slovakia. peter.sincak@tuke.sk.
(2)Department of Cybernetics and Artificial Intelligence, Faculty of Electrical 
Engineering and Informatics, Technical University of Kosice, Letná St. 9, Košice 
04001, Slovakia. jaroslav.ondo@tuke.sk.
(3)Department of Building Services, Civil Engineering Faculty, Technical 
University of Kosice, Vysokoskolska St.4, Kosice 04001, Slovakia. 
daniela.ocipova@tuke.sk.
(4)Department of Cybernetics and Artificial Intelligence, Faculty of Electrical 
Engineering and Informatics, Technical University of Kosice, Letná St. 9, Košice 
04001, Slovakia. maria.vircik@gmail.com.
(5)Department of Building Services, Civil Engineering Faculty, Technical 
University of Kosice, Vysokoskolska St.4, Kosice 04001, Slovakia. 
vranayova@tuke.sk.
(6)Department of Cybernetics and Artificial Intelligence, Faculty of Electrical 
Engineering and Informatics, Technical University of Kosice, Letná St. 9, Košice 
04001, Slovakia. sabolj91@gmail.com.

Good quality water supplies and safe sanitation in urban areas are a big 
challenge for governments throughout the world. Providing adequate water quality 
is a basic requirement for our lives. The colony forming units of the bacterium 
Legionella pneumophila in potable water represent a big problem which cannot be 
overlooked for health protection reasons. We analysed several methods to program 
a virtual hot water tank with AI (artificial intelligence) tools including 
neuro-fuzzy systems as a precaution against legionelosis. The main goal of this 
paper is to present research which simulates the temperature profile in the 
water tank. This research presents a tool for a water management system to 
simulate conditions which are able to prevent legionelosis outbreaks in a water 
system. The challenge is to create a virtual water tank simulator including the 
water environment which can simulate a situation which is common in building 
water distribution systems. The key feature of the presented system is its 
adaptation to any hot water tank. While respecting the basic parameters of hot 
water, a water supplier and building maintainer are required to ensure the 
predefined quality and water temperature at each sampling site and avoid the 
growth of Legionella. The presented system is one small contribution how to 
overcome a situation when legionelosis could find good conditions to spread and 
jeopardize human lives.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph110808597
PMCID: PMC4143880
PMID: 25153475 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1151. Psychol Rep. 2014 Oct;115(2):515-6. doi: 10.2466/04.PR0.115c17z1. Epub 2014 Aug 
25.

A study of intelligence in Jordan.

Bakhiet SF(1), Lynn R.

Author information:
(1)1 King Saud University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.

The Raven's Standard Progressive Matrices test was standardized in Jordan in 
2004 on a sample of 1,015 school students ages 12 to 17 yr. The sample obtained 
a British IQ of 82.6.

DOI: 10.2466/04.PR0.115c17z1
PMID: 25153849 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1152. Psychol Rep. 2014 Aug;115(1):44-64. doi: 10.2466/15.20.PR0.115c17z7.

Positive psychology group intervention for breast cancer patients: a randomised 
trial.

Victoria Cerezo M(1), Ortiz-Tallo M, Cardenal V, De La Torre-Luque A.

Author information:
(1)1 Department of Methodology, University of Málaga, Spain.

This study assessed the effects of a psychological group intervention based on 
positive psychology in women with breast cancer. 175 women were randomly 
assigned either to an experimental group, receiving the 14-session intervention 
(n = 87), or to a wait list group (n = 88) that did not receive any type of 
intervention. For treatment, a group intervention was applied, based on 
improving psychological strengths and enhancing positive psychology-based styles 
of coping. Strength-related outcomes, self-esteem, well-being, and happiness 
were assessed before and after the intervention. The experimental group showed 
higher scores on all of the study variables after the intervention. Participants 
reported improved self-esteem, emotional intelligence-related abilities, 
resilience, and optimism, as well as positive affectivity, well-being, and 
happiness. The results show a beneficial effect of this psychological 
intervention based on positive psychology on female breast cancer patients' 
psychological health.

DOI: 10.2466/15.20.PR0.115c17z7
PMID: 25153949 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1153. Psychol Rep. 2014 Aug;115(1):311-25. doi: 10.2466/17.04.PR0.115c13z8. Epub 2014 
Jul 15.

Honesty-humility in contemporary students: manipulations of self-image by 
inflated IQ estimations.

Kajonius PJ(1).

Author information:
(1)1 Department of Psychology, University West, Sweden.

The HEXACO model offers a complement to the Big Five model, including a sixth 
factor, Honesty-Humility, and its four facets (Sincerity, Fairness, 
Greed-avoidance, and Modesty). The four facets of Honesty-Humility and three 
indicators of intelligence (one performance-based cognitive ability test, one 
self-estimated academic potential, and one self-report of previous IQ test 
results) were assessed in students entering higher education (N = 187). A 
significant negative correlation was observed between Honesty-Humility and 
self-reported intelligence (r = -.37), most evident in the Modesty facet. These 
results may be interpreted as tendencies of exaggeration, using a theoretical 
frame of psychological image-management, concluding that the Honesty-Humility 
trait captures students' self-ambitions, particularly within the context of an 
individualistic, competitive culture such as Sweden.

DOI: 10.2466/17.04.PR0.115c13z8
PMID: 25153965 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1154. Behav Neurol. 2014;2014:218637. doi: 10.1155/2014/218637. Epub 2014 Aug 3.

Memory functioning in children with epilepsy: frontal lobe epilepsy, childhood 
absence epilepsy, and benign epilepsy with centrotemporal spikes.

Lopes AF(1), Monteiro JP(2), Fonseca MJ(2), Robalo C(3), Simões MR(4).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Psychology, University of Coimbra, Apartado 6153, 3001-802 
Coimbra, Portugal ; Neuropaediatric Unit, Garcia de Orta Hospital, Almada, 
Portugal.
(2)Neuropaediatric Unit, Garcia de Orta Hospital, Almada, Portugal.
(3)Neuropaediatric Unit, Coimbra Paediatric Hospital, Coimbra, Portugal.
(4)Faculty of Psychology, University of Coimbra, Apartado 6153, 3001-802 
Coimbra, Portugal.

Specific cognitive deficits have been identified in children with epilepsy 
irrespective of results on intelligence tests. Memory deficits are traditionally 
attributed to temporal lobe epilepsy, whereas the impact of frontal lobe 
epilepsy on memory functions has remained controversial. The aim of this study 
was the examination of memory abilities in other childhood common epilepsy 
syndromes (frontal lobe epilepsy (FLE), childhood absence epilepsy (CAE), and 
benign epilepsy with centrotemporal spikes (BECTS)) and the influence of 
epilepsy-related variables. Memory was examined in 90 children with epilepsy 
(each epilepsy group consisted of 30 children), aged 6-15, and compared with 30 
control children. Children with FLE showed significant deficits in verbal and 
visual memory. In addition, type of epilepsy, earlier age at epilepsy onset, and 
longer active duration of epilepsy were associated with memory problems. Seizure 
frequency and treatment, however, did not influence memory performance. This 
study indicates that children with FLE show greater risk of developing memory 
deficits than children with CAE or BECTS, thus highlighting the importance of 
assessing also memory functions in frontal lobe epilepsy.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/218637
PMCID: PMC4137508
PMID: 25157201 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1155. Front Hum Neurosci. 2014 Aug 11;8:615. doi: 10.3389/fnhum.2014.00615. 
eCollection 2014.

Verbal creativity in autism: comprehension and generation of metaphoric language 
in high-functioning autism spectrum disorder and typical development.

Kasirer A(1), Mashal N(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Education Bar-Ilan University Ramat-Gan, Israel.
(2)School of Education Bar-Ilan University Ramat-Gan, Israel ; Gonda 
Multidisciplinary Brain Research Center, Bar-Ilan University Ramat-Gan, Israel.

Studies on creativity in participants with autism generally show impoverished 
performance as well as deficient comprehension of metaphoric language. However, 
very little is known about the ability to generate metaphors in this population. 
The present study examines verbal creativity in adults with autism-spectrum 
disorder (ASD) through tasks that rely on novel metaphoric language. Seventeen 
adults with ASD (mean age = 21.06) and 17 typically developing peers (mean age = 
22.71) participated in the study. A multiple-choice questionnaire consisting of 
conventional and novel metaphors was used to test comprehension, and a sentence 
completion questionnaire was used to test generation of creative language. 
Results show similar performance in comprehension of conventional and novel 
metaphors in both groups, whereas adults with ASD generated more creative 
metaphors relative to the control group. Scores on tests of vocabulary and 
naming contributed to the prediction of conventional metaphor comprehension, 
while scores on tests of mental flexibility contributed to the prediction of 
novel metaphor comprehension. In addition, scores on a test of non-verbal 
intelligence contributed to the prediction of metaphor generation. The study 
points to unique verbal creativity in ASD.

DOI: 10.3389/fnhum.2014.00615
PMCID: PMC4128218
PMID: 25157225


1156. ScientificWorldJournal. 2014;2014:693831. doi: 10.1155/2014/693831. Epub 2014 
Aug 3.

A comparative analysis of swarm intelligence techniques for feature selection in 
cancer classification.

Gunavathi C(1), Premalatha K(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Computer Science and Engineering, K. S. Rangasamy College of 
Technology, Tamil Nadu 637 215, India.
(2)Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Bannari Amman Institute of 
Technology, Tamil Nadu 638 401, India.

Feature selection in cancer classification is a central area of research in the 
field of bioinformatics and used to select the informative genes from thousands 
of genes of the microarray. The genes are ranked based on T-statistics, 
signal-to-noise ratio (SNR), and F-test values. The swarm intelligence (SI) 
technique finds the informative genes from the top-m ranked genes. These 
selected genes are used for classification. In this paper the shuffled frog 
leaping with Lévy flight (SFLLF) is proposed for feature selection. In SFLLF, 
the Lévy flight is included to avoid premature convergence of shuffled frog 
leaping (SFL) algorithm. The SI techniques such as particle swarm optimization 
(PSO), cuckoo search (CS), SFL, and SFLLF are used for feature selection which 
identifies informative genes for classification. The k-nearest neighbour (k-NN) 
technique is used to classify the samples. The proposed work is applied on 10 
different benchmark datasets and examined with SI techniques. The experimental 
results show that the results obtained from k-NN classifier through SFLLF 
feature selection method outperform PSO, CS, and SFL.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/693831
PMCID: PMC4137534
PMID: 25157377 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1157. J Clin Nurs. 2015 Mar;24(5-6):749-60. doi: 10.1111/jocn.12668. Epub 2014 Aug 26.

Transforming community services through the use of a multidimensional model of 
clinical leadership.

Leigh JA(1), Wild J, Hynes C, Wells S, Kurien A, Rutherford J, Rosen L, Ashcroft 
T, Hartley V.

Author information:
(1)College of Health and Social Care, University of Salford, Salford, UK.

AIMS AND OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the application of a Multidimensional Model of 
Clinical Leadership on the community healthcare leader and on transforming 
community services.
BACKGROUND: Healthcare policy advocates clinical leadership as the vehicle to 
transform community and healthcare services. Few studies have identified the key 
components of an effective clinical leadership development model.
DESIGN: The first two stages of Kirkpatrick's (Personnel Administrator 28, 1983, 
62) Four/Five Levels of Evaluation were used to evaluate the application of the 
multidimensional model of clinical leadership.
METHODS: Eighty community healthcare leaders were exposed to this 
multidimensional clinical leadership development model through attendance of a 
community clinical leadership development programme. Twenty five leaders 
participated in focus group interviews. Data from the interviews were analysed 
utilising thematic content analysis.
RESULTS: Three key themes emerged that influenced the development of best 
practice principles for clinical leadership development: 1. Personal leadership 
development 2. Organisational leadership 3. The importance of multiprofessional 
action learning/reflective groups
CONCLUSIONS: Emergent best practice principles for clinical leadership 
development include adopting a multidimensional development approach. This 
approach encompasses: preparing the individual leader in the role and seeking 
organisational leadership development that promotes the vision and corporate 
values of the organisation and delivers on service improvement and innovation. 
Moreover, application of the Multidimensional Model of Clinical Leadership could 
offer the best platform for embedding the Six C's of Nursing (Compassion in 
Practice - Our Culture of Compassionate Care, Department of Health, Crown 
Copyright, 2012) within the culture of the healthcare organisation: care, 
compassion, courage, commitment, communication, and competency. This is achieved 
in part through the application of emotional intelligence to understand self and 
to develop the personal integrity of the healthcare leader and through 
supporting a culture of lifelong leadership learning.
RELEVANCE TO CLINICAL PRACTICE: Embedding the best practice principles of 
clinical leadership development within a multidimensional model of clinical 
leadership provides a promising approach to: equipping the healthcare leader 
with those transferable leadership skills required to help them embark on a 
journey of lifelong leadership learning; and producing the healthcare leader who 
is caring, compassionate and can confidently and effectively transform community 
services.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jocn.12668
PMID: 25157691 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1158. Schizophr Res Cogn. 2014 Aug 27;1(2):96-100. doi: 10.1016/j.scog.2014.06.003. 
eCollection 2014 Jun.

The relationship between IQ and performance on the MATRICS consensus cognitive 
battery.

Mohn C(1), Sundet K(2), Rund BR(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Vestre Viken Hospital Trust, Norway.
(2)Department of Psychology, University of Oslo, Norway.

The associations between IQ and individual tests of neurocognitive function are 
well studied. However, there is a lack of information as to how IQ relates to 
performance on neuropsychological test batteries as a whole and in the same 
individuals. In this study, 250 healthy participants aged 20-69 years were 
tested with the Wechsler Abbreviated Scale of Intelligence (WASI) and the 
MATRICS Consensus Cognitive Battery (MCCB). In correlation analyses, IQ was 
significantly related to all MCCB scores, except the Social Cognition domain. 
Hierarchical regression analyses including gender, age, and education confirmed 
this association. For overall cognitive function, 50% of the variance was 
explained by IQ and demographic characteristics. For the domains Speed of 
Processing, Working Memory, Visual and Verbal Learning, IQ explained a larger 
proportion of the variance than the demographic factors did. The implication is 
that these domains may provide information of a person's intelligence level.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scog.2014.06.003
PMCID: PMC5779112
PMID: 29379744


1159. Nihon Hinyokika Gakkai Zasshi. 2014 Jul;105(3):112-21. doi: 
10.5980/jpnjurol.105.112.

[Cross-cultural validated adaptation of dysfunctional voiding symptom score 
(DVSS) to Japanese language and cognitive linguistics in questionnaire for 
pediatric patients].

[Article in Japanese]

Imamura M, Usui T, Johnin K, Yoshimura K, Farhat W, Kanematsu A, Ogawa O.

PURPOSE: Validated questionnaire for evaluation of pediatric lower urinary tract 
symptoms (LUTS) is of a great need. We performed cross-cultural validated 
adaptation of Dysfunctional Voiding Symptom Score (DVSS) to Japanese language, 
and assessed whether children understand and respond to questionnaire correctly, 
using cognitive linguistic approach.
METHODS: We translated DVSS into two Japanese versions according to a standard 
validation methodology: translation, synthesis, back-translation, expert review, 
and pre-testing. One version was written in adult language for parents, and the 
other was written in child language for children. Pre-testing was done with 5 to 
15-year-old patients visiting us, having normal intelligence. A specialist in 
cognitive linguistics observed the response by children and parents to DVSS as 
an interviewer. When a child could not understand a question without adding or 
paraphrasing the question by the parents, it was defined as 'misidentification'.
RESULTS: We performed pretesting with 2 trial versions of DVSS before having the 
final version. The pre-testing for the first trial version was done for 32 
patients (male to female ratio was 19 : 13). The pre-testing for the second 
trial version was done for 11 patients (male to female ratio was 8 : 3). In DVSS 
in child language, misidentification was consistently observed for 
representation of time or frequency. We completed the formal validated 
translation by amending the problems raised in the pre-testing.
CONCLUSION: The cross-cultural validated adaptation of DVSS to child and adult 
Japanese was completed. Since temporal perception is not fully developed in 
children, caution should be taken for using the terms related with time or 
frequency in the questionnaires for children.

DOI: 10.5980/jpnjurol.105.112
PMID: 25158553 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1160. Am J Med Genet A. 2014 Oct;164A(10):2461-4. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.a.36519. Epub 2014 
Aug 26.

Cognitive profile of school-age children and teenagers with hypohidrotic 
ectodermal dysplasia (HED).

Hadj-Rabia S(1), Jacob S, Dufresne H, Mashiah J, Vaivre-Douret L, Bodemer C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Reference Center for Genodermatoses and Rare Skin 
Diseases (MAGEC), Institut Imagine, Hôpital Universitaire Necker-Enfants 
Malades, AP-HP, Paris, France; INSERM U781, Institut Imagine, Paris, France; 
Université Paris Descartes-Sorbonne Paris Cité, Paris, France.

Anhidrotic/hypohidrotic ectodermal dysplasia (HED) is the most common of the 
ectodermal dysplasias characterized by a triad of absent or reduced sweat, 
hypodontia and misshapen teeth, and missing or sparse hair. As the central 
nervous system is primarily ectodermal in origin, it has long been a concern 
that HED may be associated with developmental delay and/or intellectual 
disabilities. While published reviews report abnormalities in mental or motor 
development in 15-25% of HED-affected patients, there is no report in the 
literature including a systematic assessment of intellectual abilities in a 
cohort of patients with this rare disorder. During yearly health care updates, 
many of our clinic families report attention difficulties in young HED patients 
without evidence of a significant impact on school performance. In an 
exploratory study to identify and quantify intellectual abnormalities that may 
be associated with HED, we performed a psychological examination of 23 HED 
patients by means of the Wechsler Intelligence Scales, WPPSI-III, and WISC-IV. 
The interpretation of the tests shows no significant impairment in the 
achievements of the sample group compared with normative values (full scale 
scores, and index scale scores of the WISC-IV). At an individual level, the 
HED-affected patients were characterised by higher scores on the Verbal 
Comprehension Index, on Perceptual Reasoning and Working Memory Indices, and 
lower scores on the Processing Speed Index. As all of the Indices were within 
normal limits for the study population, in the absence of major mental/motor 
disabilities these findings support the mainstream education of HED-affected 
children.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.a.36519
PMID: 25159892 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1161. J Intellect Disabil Res. 2015 Jul;59(7):613-21. doi: 10.1111/jir.12165. Epub 
2014 Aug 27.

Developmental changes in cognitive and behavioural functioning of adolescents 
with fragile-X syndrome.

Frolli A(1), Piscopo S(2), Conson M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Second University of Naples, Naples, Italy.
(2)Laboratory of Animal Physiology and Evolution, Stazione Zoologica Anton 
Dohrn, Naples, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Individuals with fragile-X syndrome exhibit developmental delay, 
hyperexcitation and social anxiety; they also show lack of attention and 
hyperactivity. Few studies have investigated whether levels of functioning 
change with increasing age. Here, we explored developmental changes across 
adolescence in the cognitive and behavioural profile of individuals with 
fragile-X syndrome. To this scope, we assessed intellectual functioning, 
adaptive behaviour, autistic symptomatology, behavioural problems (e.g. 
hyperactivity/lack of attention) and strengths (prosocial behaviours).
METHOD: Thirty-six participants underwent standardised outcome measures (i.e. 
the Wechsler Intelligence Scales-Revised, the Childhood Autism Rating Scale, the 
Vineland Adaptive Behavior Scales, and the Strengths and Difficulty 
Questionnaire) in three time points (Time 1: 9-11; Time 2: 11-13, and Time 3: 
13-15 years).
RESULTS: Verbal IQ improved across time, whereas Nonverbal IQ declined and Full 
Scale IQ was quite unchanged. Autism ratings decreased; communication and social 
aspects of adaptive behaviour also enhanced. Finally, elevated levels of 
hyperactivity/lack of attention at Time 1 significantly improved across the 
three time points, whereas emotional symptoms, behavioural difficulties, 
problems with peers and prosocial behaviours remained stable over time.
CONCLUSION: These findings revealed specific developmental changes in cognitive 
and behavioural functioning of individuals with fragile-X syndrome, likely 
related to a progressive maturation of brain systems devoted to attentional 
control.

© 2014 MENCAP and International Association of the Scientific Study of 
Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jir.12165
PMID: 25160119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1162. Stud Health Technol Inform. 2014;205:328-32.

Mining level of control in medical organizations.

Çalimli O(1), Türkeli S(1), Eken EG(1), Gönen HE(1).

Author information:
(1)Istanbul Technical University, Biomedical Engineering Graduate Program, 
Turkey.

In literature of strategic management, there are three layers of control defined 
in organizational structures. These layers are strategic, tactical and 
operational, in which resides senior, medium level and low level managers 
respectively. In strategic level, institutional strategies are determined 
according to senior managers' perceived state of organization. In tactical 
level, this strategy is processed into methods and activities of a business 
management plan. Operational level embodies actions and functions to sustain 
specified business management plan. An acknowledged lead organization in Turkish 
medical area is examined using case study and data mining method in the scope of 
this paper. The level of decisions regarded in managerial purposes evaluated 
through chosen organization's business intelligence event logs report. Hence 
specification of management level importance of medical organizations is made. 
Case study, data mining and descriptive statistical method of taken case's 
reports present that positions of "Chief Executive Officer", "Outpatient Center 
Manager", "General Manager", monitored and analyzed functions of operational 
level management more frequently than strategic and tactical level. Absence of 
strategic management decision level research in medical area distinguishes this 
paper and consequently substantiates its significant contribution.

PMID: 25160200 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1163. Stud Health Technol Inform. 2014;205:945-9.

eHCM: Resources Reduction & Demand Increase, cover the gap by a managerial 
approach powered by an IT solutions.

Buccioli M(1), Agnoletti V(1), Padovani E(2), Perger P(2).

Author information:
(1)Forlì Hospital, Italy.
(2)University of Bologna, Italy.

The economic and financial crisis has also had an important impact on the 
healthcare sector. Available resources have decreased, while at the same time 
costs as well as demand for healthcare services are on the rise. This coalescing 
negative impact on availability of healthcare resources is exacerbated even 
further by a widespread ignorance of management accounting matters. Little 
knowledge about costs is a strong source of costs augmentation. Although it is 
broadly recognized that cost accounting has a positive impact on healthcare 
organizations, it is not widespread adopted. Hospitals are essential components 
in providing overall healthcare. Operating rooms are critical hospital units not 
only in patient safety terms but also in expenditure terms. Understanding OR 
procedures in the hospital provides important information about how health care 
resources are used. There have been several scientific studies on management 
accounting in healthcare environments and more than ever there is a need for 
innovation, particularly by connecting business administration research findings 
to modern IT tools. IT adoption constitutes one of the most important innovation 
fields within the healthcare sector, with beneficial effects on the decision 
making processes. The e-HCM (e-Healthcare Cost Management) project consists of a 
cost calculation model which is applicable to Business Intelligence. The cost 
calculation approach comprises elements from both traditional cost accounting 
and activity-based costing. Direct costs for all surgical procedures can be 
calculated through a seven step implementation process.

PMID: 25160327 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1164. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2014 Nov 1;90(3):554-61. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijrobp.2014.06.058. Epub 2014 Aug 23.

Critical combinations of radiation dose and volume predict intelligence quotient 
and academic achievement scores after craniospinal irradiation in children with 
medulloblastoma.

Merchant TE(1), Schreiber JE(2), Wu S(3), Lukose R(4), Xiong X(3), Gajjar A(5).

Author information:
(1)Division of Radiation Oncology, St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, 
Memphis, Tennessee. Electronic address: thomas.merchant@stjude.org.
(2)Department of Psychology, St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, Memphis, 
Tennessee.
(3)Department of Biostatistcs, St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, Memphis, 
Tennessee.
(4)Division of Radiation Oncology, St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, 
Memphis, Tennessee.
(5)Department of Oncology, St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, Memphis, 
Tennessee.

PURPOSE: To prospectively follow children treated with craniospinal irradiation 
to determine critical combinations of radiation dose and volume that would 
predict for cognitive effects.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: Between 1996 and 2003, 58 patients (median age 8.14 
years, range 3.99-20.11 years) with medulloblastoma received risk-adapted 
craniospinal irradiation followed by dose-intense chemotherapy and were followed 
longitudinally with multiple cognitive evaluations (through 5 years after 
treatment) that included intelligence quotient (estimated intelligence quotient, 
full-scale, verbal, and performance) and academic achievement (math, reading, 
spelling) tests. Craniospinal irradiation consisted of 23.4 Gy for average-risk 
patients (nonmetastatic) and 36-39.6 Gy for high-risk patients (metastatic or 
residual disease >1.5 cm(2)). The primary site was treated using conformal or 
intensity modulated radiation therapy using a 2-cm clinical target volume 
margin. The effect of clinical variables and radiation dose to different brain 
volumes were modeled to estimate cognitive scores after treatment.
RESULTS: A decline with time for all test scores was observed for the entire 
cohort. Sex, race, and cerebrospinal fluid shunt status had a significant impact 
on baseline scores. Age and mean radiation dose to specific brain volumes, 
including the temporal lobes and hippocampi, had a significant impact on 
longitudinal scores. Dichotomized dose distributions at 25 Gy, 35 Gy, 45 Gy, and 
55 Gy were modeled to show the impact of the high-dose volume on longitudinal 
test scores. The 50% risk of a below-normal cognitive test score was calculated 
according to mean dose and dose intervals between 25 Gy and 55 Gy at 10-Gy 
increments according to brain volume and age.
CONCLUSIONS: The ability to predict cognitive outcomes in children with 
medulloblastoma using dose-effects models for different brain subvolumes will 
improve treatment planning, guide intervention, and help estimate the value of 
newer methods of irradiation.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijrobp.2014.06.058
PMCID: PMC4703579
PMID: 25160611 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Statement: The authors have 
no conflicts of interest to disclose.


1165. Curr Opin Organ Transplant. 2014 Oct;19(5):480-5. doi: 
10.1097/MOT.0000000000000116.

Changing definitions of successful outcomes in pediatric liver transplantation.

Kerkar N(1), Danialifar T.

Author information:
(1)aKeck School of Medicine, University of Southern California bDivision of 
Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition, Children's Hospital of Los Angeles, 
University of Southern California, Los Angeles, California, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: This review highlights the fact that in the current era, the 
focus of success in pediatric transplantation has moved from short-term to 
long-term patient and graft survival as well as achieving 'normality' after 
transplantation.
RECENT FINDINGS: Advances in surgical techniques, organ allocation, intensive 
care management, laboratory tests, interventional and diagnostic radiology, 
immunosuppressive, and antiviral drugs have allowed a larger number of pediatric 
liver transplant recipients to progress into adulthood. To achieve 'normality' 
several medical and psychosocial factors have become the target of intervention. 
Attaining optimal linear growth and puberty after transplant is important as is 
minimizing adverse events associated with immunosuppression. Special 
considerations are important in the adolescent transplant recipient, 
particularly adherence to medical recommendations. Liver transplant recipients 
have been reported to have below average intelligence quotient at school entry 
and significantly lower health-related quality of life than healthy controls and 
appropriate interventions need to be put in place early. Successful long-term 
outcomes in transplantation are contingent on successful transition from 
pediatric to adult healthcare services. Achieving operational tolerance remains 
a goal.
SUMMARY: In conclusion, this review outlines the myriad issues around pediatric 
transplantation that can be addressed so that the transplant recipient may 
experience a 'normal' quality of life.

DOI: 10.1097/MOT.0000000000000116
PMID: 25160695 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1166. MSMR. 2014 Aug;21(8):7-12.

Gynecologic disorders diagnosed during deployment to Southwest/Central Asia, 
active component females, U.S. Armed Forces, 2008-2013.

Armed Forces Health Surveillance Center (AFHSC).

Service women in the U.S. Armed Forces face unique challenges that may lead to 
or exacerbate gynecologic disorders - particularly during deployment. This 
report documented that approximately one in 10 military women who served in 
Southwest/Central Asia were diagnosed with a gynecologic disorder at least once 
during deployment. In addition, gynecologic disorders accounted for 
approximately one of every 20 medical evacuations of female service members from 
the war zone. A majority of clinically significant gynecologic disorder cases 
were attributable to irregular menstruation/bleeding or unspecified inflammation 
or pain of the female genital organs. Incidence rates of gynecologic disorder 
diagnoses were higher among black, non-Hispanic service women, among younger 
women, and among those in the Army and in motor transport and 
communications/intelligence occupations. Approximately 50% of gynecologic 
disorder cases had received gynecologic care within 6 months prior to deployment 
and nearly 90% had received care within 2 years of deployment. Despite 
pre-deployment care, it is apparent from this report that service women need 
continuous access to gynecologic care during deployment, particularly if 
conditions during deployment lead to and exacerbate gynecologic disorders.

PMID: 25162497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1167. MSMR. 2014 Aug;21(8):13-5.

Vaginal yeast infections while deployed in Southwest/Central Asia, active 
component females, U.S. Armed Forces, 2008-2013.

Armed Forces Health Surveillance Center (AFHSC).

In field settings, female service members may not have adequate access to 
bathrooms, showers, laundry, or sanitary products necessary to maintain adequate 
feminine hygiene; therefore, service women may be at risk for vaginal yeast 
infections while deployed. During the 6-year surveillance period, nearly 3,000 
U.S. military service women were diagnosed with at least one clinically 
significant yeast infection while supporting combat operations in 
Southwest/Central Asia. The crude overall incidence rate was 35.1 per 1,000 
person-years (p-yrs). Overall incidence rates were higher among black, 
non-Hispanic service women, and among those in the Army and Air Force, in 
enlisted grades, and in communications/intelligence and motor transport 
occupations. The yearly rate of yeast infections was relatively stable from 2008 
through 2010, then decreased in 2011 through 2013. Prior to deploying to austere 
operational settings, female service members should be provided practical and 
useful information, realistic training, and material support to decrease the 
risk of acquiring and increase the effectiveness of treating clinically and 
military operationally significant yeast infections.

PMID: 25162498 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1168. Behav Brain Sci. 2014 Aug;37(4):431-2. doi: 10.1017/S0140525X13003221.

Intentional change, intrinsic motivations, and goal generation.

Manzotti R(1), Moderato P(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Communication, Consumption, and Behavior "G. P. Fabris," IULM 
University, 20142 Milano, Italy. riccardo.manzotti@iulm.it 
paolo.moderato@iulm.it www.consciousness.it

Comment in
    Behav Brain Sci. 2014 Aug;37(4):438-60.

Comment on
    Behav Brain Sci. 2014 Aug;37(4):395-416.

Wilson et al. draw our attention to the problem of a science of intentional 
change. We stress the connection between their approach and existing paradigms 
for learning and goal generation that have been developed in machine learning, 
artificial intelligence, and psychology. These paradigms outline the structural 
principles of a domain-general and teleologically open agent.

DOI: 10.1017/S0140525X13003221
PMID: 25162876 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1169. Z Kinder Jugendpsychiatr Psychother. 2014 Sep;42(5):325-35. doi: 
10.1024/1422-4917/a000308.

[Evaluation of the Musical Concentration Training with Pepe (MusiKo mit Pepe) 
for children with attention deficits].

[Article in German; Abstract available in German from the publisher]

Rothmann K(1), Hillmer JM(1), Hosser D(1).

Author information:
(1)Abteilung für Entwicklungs-, Persönlichkeits- und Forensische Psychologie, 
Institut für Psychologie, <location>Braunschweig</location>

OBJECTIVE: This study evaluates the Musical Concentration Training with Pepe 
("MusiKo mit Pepe") for children aged 5 to 10 years with attention deficits.
METHOD: Using a pre-post-control design (N = 108), changes in attention capacity 
are measured by the Test of Attentional Performance for Children (KiTAP), 
whereas changes in the quality of life are assessed with the Children's 
Questionnaire (KINDL-R). Additionally, we utilized the Symptom Checklist for 
Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorders (FBB-ADHS) and for Conduct Disorder 
(FBB-SSV) of the Diagnostic System of Mental Disorders in Children and 
Adolescents II based on ICD-10 and DSM-IV as well as the Child Behavior 
Checklist and the Teacher's Report Form (CBCL, TRF).
RESULTS: Significant pre-post effects were found in both attention and quality 
of life for children treated by the training compared to controls. Moreover, 
significant reductions were detected in ADHD symptomatology in parents' and 
teachers' ratings, and in internal problems in parents' ratings. The 
effectiveness of the intervention was not affected by age, sex, intelligence, or 
migration background.
CONCLUSION: The music-based training "MusiKo mit Pepe" is an effective 
intervention for children with attention deficits, pending replication of these 
findings in future studies.

Publisher: Fragestellung: Die vorliegende Studie überprüft die Wirksamkeit des 
Musikalischen Konzentrationstrainings mit Pepe (MusiKo mit Pepe) für fünf- bis 
zehnjährige Kinder mit Aufmerksamkeitsproblemen. Methodik: In einem 
Prä-Post-Kontrollgruppendesign (N = 108) wurden Veränderungen der 
Aufmerksamkeitsleistung mittels der Testbatterie zur Aufmerksamkeitsprüfung für 
Kinder (KiTAP) sowie Veränderungen der kindlichen Lebensqualität mittels des 
Fragebogens für Kinder (KINDL-R) erfasst. Zusätzlich wurden 
Fremdbeurteilungsbögen zur Aufmerksamkeitsdefizit-/Hyperaktivitätsstörung 
(FBB-ADHS) sowie zur Störung des Sozialverhaltens (FBB-SSV) des 
Diagnostik-Systems für psychische Störungen nach ICD-10 und DSM-IV für Kinder 
und Jugendliche II und der Eltern- und der Lehrerfragebogen über das Verhalten 
von Kindern und Jugendlichen (CBCL, TRF) eingesetzt. Ergebnisse: Es zeigen sich 
für die am Training teilnehmenden Kinder im Vergleich zu der Kontrollgruppe über 
die Zeit signifikante Verbesserungen der Aufmerksamkeitsleistung sowie der 
Lebensqualität. Darüber hinaus ergibt sich eine signifikante Reduktion der 
ADHS-Symptomatik im Eltern- und Lehrerurteil sowie eine Verminderung der 
Internalisierenden Probleme im Elternurteil. Die Behandlungseffektivität ist 
unabhängig von Alter, Geschlecht, Intelligenz und Migrationshintergrund der 
teilnehmenden Kinder. Schlussfolgerung: Das musikbasierte Trainingsprogramm 
MusiKo mit Pepe stellt eine wirkungsvolle Maßnahme zur Behandlung von 
Aufmerksamkeitsproblemen dar, sollten sich diese Effekte in Replikationsstudien 
bestätigen.

DOI: 10.1024/1422-4917/a000308
PMID: 25163995 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1170. Dev Sci. 2015 May;18(3):373-88. doi: 10.1111/desc.12219. Epub 2014 Aug 28.

Individual differences in the shape bias in preschool children with specific 
language impairment and typical language development: theoretical and clinical 
implications.

Collisson BA(1), Grela B, Spaulding T, Rueckl JG, Magnuson JS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Faculty of Medicine, University of Calgary, Canada.

We investigated whether preschool children with specific language impairment 
(SLI) exhibit the shape bias in word learning: the bias to generalize based on 
shape rather than size, color, or texture in an object naming context ('This is 
a wek; find another wek') but not in a non-naming similarity classification 
context ('See this? Which one goes with this one?'). Fifty-four preschool 
children (16 with SLI, 16 children with typical language [TL] in an equated 
control group, and 22 additional children with TL included in individual 
differences analyses but not group comparisons) completed a battery of 
linguistic and cognitive assessments and two experiments. In Experiment 1, 
children made generalization choices in object naming and similarity 
classification contexts on separate days, from options similar to a target 
object in shape, color, or texture. On average, TL children exhibited the shape 
bias in an object naming context, but children with SLI did not. In Experiment 
2, we tested whether the failure to exhibit the shape bias might be linked to 
ability to detect systematicities in the visual domain. Experiment 2 supported 
this hypothesis, in that children with SLI failed to learn simple paired visual 
associations that were readily learned by children with TL. Analyses of 
individual differences in the two studies revealed that visual paired-associate 
learning predicted degree of shape bias in children with SLI and TL better than 
any other measure of nonverbal intelligence or standard assessments of language 
ability. We discuss theoretical and clinical implications.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/desc.12219
PMID: 25164789 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1171. Comput Math Methods Med. 2014;2014:618976. doi: 10.1155/2014/618976. Epub 2014 
Jul 16.

Screening for prediabetes using machine learning models.

Choi SB(1), Kim WJ(2), Yoo TK(3), Park JS(3), Chung JW(4), Lee YH(5), Kang 
ES(5), Kim DW(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Engineering, Yonsei University College of Medicine, 
50-1 Yonsei-ro, Seodaemun-gu, Seoul 120-752, Republic of Korea ; Brain Korea 21 
PLUS Project for Medical Science, Yonsei University, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Medicine, Yonsei University College of Medicine, Republic of 
Korea.
(3)Department of Medical Engineering, Yonsei University College of Medicine, 
50-1 Yonsei-ro, Seodaemun-gu, Seoul 120-752, Republic of Korea ; Department of 
Medicine, Yonsei University College of Medicine, Republic of Korea.
(4)Department of Medical Engineering, Yonsei University College of Medicine, 
50-1 Yonsei-ro, Seodaemun-gu, Seoul 120-752, Republic of Korea ; Graduate 
Program in Biomedical Engineering, Yonsei University, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(5)Department of Internal Medicine, Yonsei University Health System, Republic of 
Korea.

The global prevalence of diabetes is rapidly increasing. Studies support the 
necessity of screening and interventions for prediabetes, which could result in 
serious complications and diabetes. This study aimed at developing an 
intelligence-based screening model for prediabetes. Data from the Korean 
National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (KNHANES) were used, excluding 
subjects with diabetes. The KNHANES 2010 data (n = 4685) were used for training 
and internal validation, while data from KNHANES 2011 (n = 4566) were used for 
external validation. We developed two models to screen for prediabetes using an 
artificial neural network (ANN) and support vector machine (SVM) and performed a 
systematic evaluation of the models using internal and external validation. We 
compared the performance of our models with that of a screening score model 
based on logistic regression analysis for prediabetes that had been developed 
previously. The SVM model showed the areas under the curve of 0.731 in the 
external datasets, which is higher than those of the ANN model (0.729) and the 
screening score model (0.712), respectively. The prescreening methods developed 
in this study performed better than the screening score model that had been 
developed previously and may be more effective method for prediabetes screening.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/618976
PMCID: PMC4140121
PMID: 25165484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1172. ScientificWorldJournal. 2014;2014:176718. doi: 10.1155/2014/176718. Epub 2014 
Aug 3.

Improved bat algorithm applied to multilevel image thresholding.

Alihodzic A(1), Tuba M(2).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Mathematics, University of Sarajevo, 71000 Sarajevo, Bosnia And 
Herzegovina.
(2)Faculty of Computer Science, Megatrend University Belgrade, 11070 Belgrade, 
Serbia.

Multilevel image thresholding is a very important image processing technique 
that is used as a basis for image segmentation and further higher level 
processing. However, the required computational time for exhaustive search grows 
exponentially with the number of desired thresholds. Swarm intelligence 
metaheuristics are well known as successful and efficient optimization methods 
for intractable problems. In this paper, we adjusted one of the latest swarm 
intelligence algorithms, the bat algorithm, for the multilevel image 
thresholding problem. The results of testing on standard benchmark images show 
that the bat algorithm is comparable with other state-of-the-art algorithms. We 
improved standard bat algorithm, where our modifications add some elements from 
the differential evolution and from the artificial bee colony algorithm. Our new 
proposed improved bat algorithm proved to be better than five other 
state-of-the-art algorithms, improving quality of results in all cases and 
significantly improving convergence speed.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/176718
PMCID: PMC4137597
PMID: 25165733 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1173. Child Dev. 2014 Jul-Aug;85(4):1346-56. doi: 10.1111/cdev.12192.

Stability of core language skill from early childhood to adolescence: a latent 
variable approach.

Bornstein MH, Hahn CS, Putnick DL, Suwalsky JT.

This four-wave prospective longitudinal study evaluated stability of language in 
324 children from early childhood to adolescence. Structural equation modeling 
supported loadings of multiple age-appropriate multisource measures of child 
language on single-factor core language skills at 20 months and 4, 10, and 14 
years. Large stability coefficients (standardized indirect effect = .46) were 
obtained between language latent variables from early childhood to adolescence 
even when accounting for child nonverbal intelligence and social competence and 
maternal verbal intelligence, education, speech, and social desirability. 
Stability coefficients were similar for girls and boys. Stability of core 
language skill was stronger from 4 to 10 to 14 years than from 20 months to 4 
years, so early intervention to improve lagging language is recommended.

DOI: 10.1111/cdev.12192
PMCID: PMC4286341
PMID: 25165797 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1174. Midwifery. 2015 Jan;31(1):170-6. doi: 10.1016/j.midw.2014.08.004. Epub 2014 Aug 
14.

Factors affecting midwives' confidence in intrapartum care: a phenomenological 
study.

Bedwell C(1), McGowan L(2), Lavender T(3).

Author information:
(1)University of Manchester, Oxford Road, Manchester M13 9PL, UK. Electronic 
address: carol.bedwell@manchester.ac.uk.
(2)Baines Wing, School of Healthcare, University of Leeds, Leeds LS2 9JT, UK.
(3)University of Manchester, Oxford Road, Manchester M13 9PL, UK.

BACKGROUND: midwives are frequently the lead providers of care for women 
throughout labour and birth. In order to perform their role effectively and 
provide women with the choices they require midwives need to be confident in 
their practice. This study explores factors which may affect midwives' 
confidence in their practice.
METHODOLOGY: hermeneutic phenomenology formed the theoretical basis for the 
study. Prospective longitudinal data collection was completed using diaries and 
semi-structured interviews. Twelve midwives providing intrapartum care in a 
variety of settings were recruited to ensure a variety of experiences in 
different contexts were captured.
FINDINGS: the principal factor affecting workplace confidence, both positively 
and negatively, was the influence of colleagues. Perceived autonomy and a sense 
of familiarity could also enhance confidence. However, conflict in the workplace 
was a critical factor in reducing midwives' confidence. Confidence was an 
important, but fragile, phenomenon to midwives and they used a variety of coping 
strategies, emotional intelligence and presentation management to maintain it.
CONCLUSION AND IMPLICATIONS: this is the first study to highlight both the 
factors influencing midwives' workplace confidence and the strategies midwives 
employed to maintain their confidence. Confidence is important in maintaining 
well-being and workplace culture may play a role in explaining the current low 
morale within the midwifery workforce. This may have implications for women's 
choices and care. Support, effective leadership and education may help midwives 
develop and sustain a positive sense of confidence.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.midw.2014.08.004
PMID: 25168008 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1175. Eur Psychiatry. 2015 Jan;30(1):1-7. doi: 10.1016/j.eurpsy.2014.06.001. Epub 2014 
Aug 29.

Executive function processes mediate the impact of working memory impairment on 
intelligence in schizophrenia.

Wongupparaj P(1), Kumari V(2), Morris RG(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, P078, Institute of Psychiatry, King's College 
London, De Crespigny Park, London SE5 8AF, UK. Electronic address: 
peera.wongupparaj@kcl.ac.uk.
(2)Department of Psychology, P078, Institute of Psychiatry, King's College 
London, De Crespigny Park, London SE5 8AF, UK; NIHR Biomedical Research Centre 
for Mental Health, South London and Maudsley NHS Foundation Trust, London, UK.
(3)Department of Psychology, P078, Institute of Psychiatry, King's College 
London, De Crespigny Park, London SE5 8AF, UK.

OBJECTIVE: The study investigated working memory, executive functions 
(conceptualized as response inhibition, updating, and shifting), and 
intelligence in schizophrenia, using structural equation modelling to determine 
the relationship between working memory and intelligence, testing whether 
specific executive functions act as a mediator for the association.
METHOD: One hundred and twenty-five individuals diagnosed with schizophrenia and 
64 healthy participants were included in the study, tested using measures of 
working memory, intelligence and executive functioning. Structural equation 
modelling (SEM) was used to estimate direct and indirect associations between 
main measures.
RESULTS: The schizophrenia group had significantly lower working memory, 
executive function and intelligence than the healthy group. The relationship 
between working memory and intelligence was significantly mediated by 
inhibition, updating and shifting functions.
CONCLUSION: The study indicates a mediating role of executive functions in 
determining the association between working memory and intellectual function in 
schizophrenia. It is further proposed that in people with schizophrenia, 
cognitive remediation approaches targeting working memory through executive 
functioning may in turn improve intellectual function generally.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eurpsy.2014.06.001
PMID: 25169445 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1176. Bioinformatics. 2014 Dec 15;30(24):3598-600. doi: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btu582. 
Epub 2014 Aug 27.

Limbform: a functional ontology-based database of limb regeneration experiments.

Lobo D(1), Feldman EB(1), Shah M(1), Malone TJ(1), Levin M(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Regenerative and Developmental Biology, Department of Biology, 
Tufts University, 200 Boston Avenue, Suite 4600, Medford, MA 02155, USA.

The ability of certain organisms to completely regenerate lost limbs is a 
fascinating process, far from solved. Despite the extraordinary published 
efforts during the past centuries of scientists performing amputations, 
transplantations and molecular experiments, no mechanistic model exists yet that 
can completely explain patterning during the limb regeneration process. The lack 
of a centralized repository to enable the efficient mining of this huge dataset 
is hindering the discovery of comprehensive models of limb regeneration. Here, 
we introduce Limbform (Limb formalization), a centralized database of published 
limb regeneration experiments. In contrast to natural language or text-based 
ontologies, Limbform is based on a functional ontology using mathematical graphs 
to represent unambiguously limb phenotypes and manipulation procedures. The 
centralized database currently contains >800 published limb regeneration 
experiments comprising many model organisms, including salamanders, frogs, 
insects, crustaceans and arachnids. The database represents an extraordinary 
resource for mining the existing knowledge of functional data in this field; 
furthermore, its mathematical nature based on a functional ontology will pave 
the way for artificial intelligence tools applied to the discovery of the 
sought-after comprehensive limb regeneration models.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. 
For Permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btu582
PMCID: PMC4253831
PMID: 25170026 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1177. Environ Res. 2014 Oct;134:149-57. doi: 10.1016/j.envres.2014.07.001. Epub 2014 
Aug 27.

Organophosphate pesticide exposure, PON1, and neurodevelopment in school-age 
children from the CHAMACOS study.

Eskenazi B(1), Kogut K(2), Huen K(2), Harley KG(2), Bouchard M(3), Bradman A(2), 
Boyd-Barr D(4), Johnson C(2), Holland N(2).

Author information:
(1)Center for Environmental Research and Children׳s Health, School of Public 
Health, University of California, 1995 University Avenue, Suite 265, Berkeley, 
CA 94720-7380, USA. Electronic address: eskenazi@berkeley.edu.
(2)Center for Environmental Research and Children׳s Health, School of Public 
Health, University of California, 1995 University Avenue, Suite 265, Berkeley, 
CA 94720-7380, USA.
(3)Center for Environmental Research and Children׳s Health, School of Public 
Health, University of California, 1995 University Avenue, Suite 265, Berkeley, 
CA 94720-7380, USA; CHU Sainte-Justine Research Center and Université de 
Montréal, Department of Environmental and Occupational Health, Montreal, Quebec, 
Canada.
(4)Emory University, Rollins School of Public Health, Atlanta, GA, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Organophosphate (OP) pesticides remain widely used in agriculture. 
Previously, we reported that PON1 genotype was directly associated with 
neurodevelopment at age two, and that PON1 genotype may increase susceptibility 
to OP exposure.
OBJECTIVES: We examined the relationships of maternal and child PON1 genotype 
and enzyme activity levels and neurodevelopment at school age and examined their 
interaction with maternal dialkyl phosphate (DAP) metabolite levels to 
investigate differential susceptibility to OP-related neurotoxicity.
METHODS: Participants were from the CHAMACOS longitudinal birth cohort of Latino 
families in an agricultural region of California. We measured DAP metabolites of 
OP pesticides in maternal and child urine samples, and analyzed PON1192 and 
PON1-108 genotypes and enzyme activity [arylesterase (ARYase), paraoxonase 
(POase)] in maternal and child blood. We examined their association with 
children׳s performance on the Conners׳ Kiddie Continuous Performance Test 
(K-CPT) at 5 years (n=296) and the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children 
(WISC-IV) at 7 years (n=327).
RESULTS: Maternal and child PON1 genotype was not related to performance on 
K-CPT or WISC, although WISC scores tended to be lowest in children and children 
of mothers who carried the PON-108TT genotype. Pregnancy ARYase levels were 
positively associated with all WISC subscales (e.g., 4.0 point increase in Full 
Scale IQ per standard deviation increase in ARYase, 95% CI=1.6, 6.4), while 
pregnancy POase levels were positively associated with WISC Processing Speed 
only. Maternal PON1-108 weakly modified the relationship of maternal DAPS and 
K-CPT scores (pinteraction=0.21) and WISC verbal IQ (pinteraction=0.71). The 
association between DAPs and Full-Scale IQ was strongest for children of mothers 
with lowest-tertile ARYase levels (pinteraction=0.27). This relationship held 
for both diethyl and dimethyl DAPs and for all subscales of the WISC.
CONCLUSIONS: We extend our previous findings that PON1 genotype and enzyme 
levels may be directly related to performance on certain domains of 
neurodevelopment in school-age children. Lower maternal PON1 enzyme levels 
during pregnancy may also increase susceptibility of children to neurotoxicity 
from OP pesticide exposure.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envres.2014.07.001
PMCID: PMC4338203
PMID: 25171140 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None of the authors has a competing financial 
interest.


1178. Nurs Older People. 2014 Aug;26(7):10. doi: 10.7748/nop.26.7.10.s11.

Introduction to the Psychology of Ageing for Non-Specialists Stuart-Hamilton Ian 
Introduction to the Psychology of Ageing for Non-Specialists 240pp £16.99 
Jessica Kingsley 9781849053631 1849053634 [Formula: see text].

[No authors listed]

EXPLANATIONS OF ageing, life expectancy and demographics lead into a discussion 
of the main aspects and theories of the psychology of including intelligence, 
memory, language, personality and lifestyle, and mental health in later life. 
The book describes complex concepts through practical and relatable examples for 
the target population.

DOI: 10.7748/nop.26.7.10.s11
PMID: 25171355


1179. J Intellect Disabil Res. 2015 Jul;59(7):599-612. doi: 10.1111/jir.12164. Epub 
2014 Aug 29.

The effectiveness of staff training focused on increasing emotional intelligence 
and improving interaction between support staff and clients.

Zijlmans LJ(1)(2), Embregts PJ(1)(2)(3)(4)(5), Gerits L(2)(6), Bosman AM(2)(7), 
Derksen JJ(2)(7).

Author information:
(1)Tilburg University, Tranzo, Tilburg, The Netherlands.
(2)Consortium Coping LVB, The Netherlands.
(3)Tilburg University, Department of Medical and Clinical Psychology, Tilburg, 
The Netherlands.
(4)HAN University of Applied Sciences, Faculty of Health and Social Studies, 
Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
(5)Dichterbij Kennisn@, Gennep, The Netherlands.
(6)GGzE Centre for Mental Health, Eindhoven, The Netherlands.
(7)Behavioural Science Institute, Radboud University, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Recent research addressed the relationship between staff behaviour 
and challenging behaviour of individuals with an intellectual disability (ID). 
Consequently, research on interventions aimed at staff is warranted. The present 
study focused on the effectiveness of a staff training aimed at emotional 
intelligence and interactions between staff and clients. The effects of the 
training on emotional intelligence, coping style and emotions of support staff 
were investigated.
METHOD: Participants were 214 support staff working within residential settings 
for individuals with ID and challenging behaviour. The experimental group 
consisted of 76 staff members, 138 staff members participated in two different 
control groups. A pre-test, post-test, follow-up control group design was used. 
Effectiveness was assessed using questionnaires addressing emotional 
intelligence, coping and emotions.
RESULTS: Emotional intelligence of the experimental group changed significantly 
more than that of the two control groups. The experimental group showed an 
increase in task-oriented coping, whereas one control group did not. The results 
with regard to emotions were mixed. Follow-up data revealed that effects within 
the experimental group were still present four months after the training ended.
CONCLUSIONS: A staff training aimed at emotional intelligence and staff-client 
interactions is effective in improving emotional intelligence and coping styles 
of support staff. However, the need for more research aiming at the relationship 
between staff characteristics, organisational factors and their mediating role 
in the effectiveness of staff training is emphasised.

© 2014 MENCAP and International Association of the Scientific Study of 
Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jir.12164
PMID: 25171725 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1180. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 2015 Jan;212(1):28-33.e1. doi: 10.1016/j.ajog.2014.08.022. 
Epub 2014 Aug 27.

The future of obstetrics/gynecology in 2020: a clearer vision. Transformational 
forces and thriving in the new system.

Lagrew DC Jr(1), Jenkins TR(2).

Author information:
(1)Memorial Care Health System and the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, 
Division of Maternal Fetal Medicine, University of California, Irvine, Fountain 
Valley, CA.
(2)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Alabama, Birmingham, 
Birmingham, AL.

Revamping the delivery of women's health care to meet future demands will 
require a number of changes. In the first 2 articles of this series, we 
introduced the reasons for change, suggested the use of the 'Triple Aim' concept 
to (1) improve the health of a population, (2) enhance the patient experience, 
and (3) control costs as a guide post for changes, and reviewed the 
transformational forces of payment and care system reform. In the final article, 
we discuss the valuable use of information technology and disruptive clinical 
technologies. The new health care system will require a digital transformation 
so that there can be increased communication, availability of information, and 
ongoing assessment of clinical care. This will allow for more cost-effective and 
individualized treatments as data are securely shared between patients and 
providers. Scientific advances that radically change clinical practice are 
coming at an accelerated pace as the underlying technologies of genetics, 
robotics, artificial intelligence, and molecular biology are translated into 
tools for diagnosis and treatment. Thriving in the new system not only will 
require time-honored traits such as leadership and compassion but also will 
require the obstetrician/gynecologist to become comfortable with technology, 
care redesign, and quality improvement.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajog.2014.08.022
PMID: 25173190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1181. Comput Biol Med. 2014 Oct;53:230-43. doi: 10.1016/j.compbiomed.2014.08.005. Epub 
2014 Aug 16.

Soft computing approach to 3D lung nodule segmentation in CT.

Badura P(1), Pietka E(2).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Biomedical Engineering, Silesian University of Technology, 
Charlesa de Gaulle׳a 66, 41-800 Zabrze, Poland. Electronic address: 
pawel.badura@polsl.pl.
(2)Faculty of Biomedical Engineering, Silesian University of Technology, 
Charlesa de Gaulle׳a 66, 41-800 Zabrze, Poland. Electronic address: 
ewa.pietka@polsl.pl.

This paper presents a novel, multilevel approach to the segmentation of various 
types of pulmonary nodules in computed tomography studies. It is based on two 
branches of computational intelligence: the fuzzy connectedness (FC) and the 
evolutionary computation. First, the image and auxiliary data are prepared for 
the 3D FC analysis during the first stage of an algorithm - the masks 
generation. Its main goal is to process some specific types of nodules connected 
to the pleura or vessels. It consists of some basic image processing operations 
as well as dedicated routines for the specific cases of nodules. The 
evolutionary computation is performed on the image and seed points in order to 
shorten the FC analysis and improve its accuracy. After the FC application, the 
remaining vessels are removed during the postprocessing stage. The method has 
been validated using the first dataset of studies acquired and described by the 
Lung Image Database Consortium (LIDC) and by its latest release - the LIDC-IDRI 
(Image Database Resource Initiative) database.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.compbiomed.2014.08.005
PMID: 25173811 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1182. Appl Transl Genom. 2014 Jun 10;3(3):50-3. doi: 10.1016/j.atg.2014.05.003. 
eCollection 2014 Sep 1.

Will the future of knowledge work automation transform personalized medicine?

Naik G(1), Bhide SS(2).

Author information:
(1)Optra Health, 530 Lakeside Drive, Suite 250, Sunnyvale, CA 94085, United 
States.
(2)Optra Systems, 503, B-Wing, Manikchand Icon, Dhole Patil Road, Pune 411001 
India.

Today, we live in a world of 'information overload' which demands high level of 
knowledge-based work. However, advances in computer hardware and software have 
opened possibilities to automate 'routine cognitive tasks' for knowledge 
processing. Engineering intelligent software systems that can process large data 
sets using unstructured commands and subtle judgments and have the ability to 
learn 'on the fly' are a significant step towards automation of knowledge work. 
The applications of this technology for high throughput genomic analysis, 
database updating, reporting clinically significant variants, and diagnostic 
imaging purposes are explored using case studies.

DOI: 10.1016/j.atg.2014.05.003
PMCID: PMC4886728
PMID: 27284504


1183. J Pediatr Genet. 2014 Sep;3(3):167-73. doi: 10.3233/PGE-14096.

MURCS association with situs inversus totalis: Expanding the spectrum or a novel 
disorder.

Ekbote AV(1), Kamath MS(2), Danda S(1).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Genetics Unit, Christian Medical College, Vellore, India.
(2)Reproductive Medicine Unit, Christian Medical College, Vellore, India.

We are reporting a female patient with a MURCS association (Müllerian duct 
aplasia, unilateral renal agenesis, cervico-thoracic somite fusion defects), 
situs inversus totalis, short stature with normal development and intelligence. 
We are presenting the comparison with two other patients published with similar 
finding. Our patient is distinct in having all the characteristic features and 
represents the severe spectrum of this disorder. We present our argument 
favoring this to be a monogenic syndrome distinct from the other two entities 
and probably a ciliopathy.

DOI: 10.3233/PGE-14096
PMCID: PMC5021002
PMID: 27625874


1184. Acta Paediatr. 2015 Jan;104(1):68-74. doi: 10.1111/apa.12787. Epub 2014 Oct 21.

Maternal stress during pregnancy is associated with moderate to severe 
depression in 11-year-old children.

Slykerman RF(1), Thompson J, Waldie K, Murphy R, Wall C, Mitchell EA.

Author information:
(1)Starship Children's Hospital, Auckland District Health Board, Auckland, New 
Zealand.

AIM: Maternal stress during pregnancy has been associated with negative outcomes 
in children. We examined the risk factors for symptoms of depression in 
11-year-old children, including the interaction between birthweight and other 
variables.
METHODS: We collected maternal, obstetric and demographic information from birth 
through to the age of 11. Approximately, half of the 609 children were born 
small-for-gestational-age (SGA). Information collected at 3.5 and 7 years of age 
included intelligence testing and parent-reported behavioural and emotional 
development. At 11 years of age, the children completed the Center for 
Epidemiological Studies Depression Scale for Children. Multivariable logistic 
regression analysis examined the relationship between self-reported symptoms of 
moderate to severe depression at the age of 11 and explanatory variables.
RESULTS: Symptoms of moderate to severe depression were related to increasing 
maternal stress during pregnancy, young maternal age, lower intelligence test 
scores at 7-years-old and being bullied at school in the previous 6 months. 
There was also a significant interaction between maternal stress in pregnancy 
and symptoms of depression in 11-year-old children born SGA.
CONCLUSION: Increasing maternal stress during pregnancy was associated with 
increased risk of symptoms of moderate to severe depression in 11-year-old 
children, especially those who were born SGA.

©2014 Foundation Acta Paediatrica. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/apa.12787
PMID: 25174703 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1185. J Appl Res Intellect Disabil. 2015 May;28(3):182-92. doi: 10.1111/jar.12120. 
Epub 2014 Sep 1.

Intelligence is in the eye of the beholder: investigating repeated IQ 
measurements in forensic psychiatry.

Habets P(1), Jeandarme I, Uzieblo K, Oei K, Bogaerts S.

Author information:
(1)Knowledge Centre Forensic Psychiatric Care (KeFor) OPZC Rekem, Rekem, 
Belgium.

BACKGROUND: A stable assessment of cognition is of paramount importance for 
forensic psychiatric patients (FPP). The purpose of this study was to compare 
repeated measures of IQ scores in FPPs with and without intellectual disability.
METHODS: Repeated measurements of IQ scores in FPPs (n = 176) were collected. 
Differences between tests were computed, and each IQ score was categorized. 
Additionally, t-tests and regression analyses were performed.
RESULTS: Differences of 10 points or more were found in 66% of the cases 
comparing WAIS-III with RAVEN scores. Fisher's exact test revealed differences 
between two WAIS-III scores and the WAIS categories. The WAIS-III did not 
predict other IQs (WAIS or RAVEN) in participants with intellectual disability.
DISCUSSION: This study showed that stability or interchangeability of scores is 
lacking, especially in individuals with intellectual disability. Caution in 
interpreting IQ scores is therefore recommended, and the use of the unitary 
concept of IQ should be discouraged.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jar.12120
PMID: 25175692 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1186. Br J Educ Psychol. 2014 Dec;84(Pt 4):631-49. doi: 10.1111/bjep.12054. Epub 2014 
Aug 30.

The contribution of general cognitive abilities and approximate number system to 
early mathematics.

Passolunghi MC(1), Cargnelutti E, Pastore M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, University of Trieste, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Math learning is a complex process that entails a wide range of 
cognitive abilities to be fulfilled. There is sufficient evidence that both 
general and specific cognitive skills assume a fundamental role, despite the 
absence of shared consensus about the relative extent of their involvement. 
Moreover, regarding general abilities, there is no agreement about the 
recruitment of the different memory components or of intelligence. In relation 
to specific factors, great debate subsists regarding the role of the approximate 
number system (ANS).
AIMS: Starting from these considerations, we wanted to conduct a wide assessment 
of memory components and ANS, by controlling for the effects associated with 
intelligence and also exploring possible relationships between all precursors.
SAMPLE AND METHOD: To achieve this purpose, a sample of 157 children was tested 
at both beginning and end of their Grade 1. Both general (memory and 
intelligence) and specific (ANS) precursors were evaluated by a wide battery of 
tests and put in relation to concurrent and subsequent math skills. Memory was 
explored in passive and active aspects involving both verbal and visuo-spatial 
components.
RESULTS: Path analysis results demonstrated that memory, and especially the more 
active processes, and intelligence were the strongest precursors in both 
assessment times. ANS had a milder role which lost significance by the end of 
the school year. Memory and ANS seemed to influence early mathematics almost 
independently.
CONCLUSION: Both general and specific precursors seemed to have a crucial role 
in early math competences, despite the lower involvement of ANS.

© 2014 The British Psychological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/bjep.12054
PMID: 25175790 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1187. Int J Geriatr Psychiatry. 2015 Jun;30(6):587-94. doi: 10.1002/gps.4189. Epub 
2014 Sep 1.

Frontal hypometabolism in elderly breast cancer survivors determined by 
[(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET): a pilot 
study.

Ponto LL(1), Menda Y, Magnotta VA, Yamada TH, Denburg NL, Schultz SK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, University of Iowa Carver College of Medicine, Iowa 
City, IA, USA; Positron Emission Tomography Imaging Center, Department of 
Radiology, University of Iowa Carver College of Medicine, Iowa City, IA, USA.

PURPOSE: The term "chemobrain" is sometimes used to denote deficits in 
neuropsychological functioning that may occur as a result of cancer treatment. 
As breast cancer survivors now commonly reach late life, it is not known whether 
previous exposure to chemotherapy may affect long-term risk for cognitive 
impairment. To help address this concern, this study tested whether successfully 
surviving chemotherapy earlier in life was associated with later differences in 
brain metabolic function as an older adult compared to controls. This question 
was examined using positron emission tomography measures of brain glucose 
metabolism in elderly women cancer survivors.
METHODS: Breast cancer survivors (N = 10), currently free of recurrent cancer 
and without a diagnosis of a cognitive disorder, were compared to matched 
healthy controls (N = 10). All subjects were imaged at rest with 
[(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose. Images were analyzed semi-quantitatively using the 
Alzheimer's Discrimination Tool and a volume of interest-based approach derived 
from co-registered magnetic resonance imaging.
RESULTS: Relative [(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose uptake (normalized to global) was 
significantly lower in the survivors compared with control subjects in bilateral 
orbital frontal regions, consistent with differences between the groups in 
cognition and executive function (i.e., Trail Making Test, Part B and 
mini-mental state examination) and despite no significant differences with 
respect to age, education, intelligence, or working memory. None of the 
survivors and only one control manifested a global positron emission tomography 
score consistent with an Alzheimer's disease metabolic pattern.
CONCLUSION: Breast cancer survivors treated with chemotherapy may manifest 
long-term changes in brain glucose metabolism indicative of subtle frontal 
hypometabolism, a finding consistent with results from neuropsychological 
testing and other imaging modalities.

Copyright © 2014 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/gps.4189
PMCID: PMC4345151
PMID: 25176562 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1188. ScientificWorldJournal. 2014;2014:798323. doi: 10.1155/2014/798323. Epub 2014 
Aug 6.

A variable neighborhood Walksat-based algorithm for MAX-SAT problems.

Bouhmala N(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Maritime Technology and Innovation, Buskerud and Vestfold 
University, Norway.

The simplicity of the maximum satisfiability problem (MAX-SAT) combined with its 
applicability in many areas of artificial intelligence and computing science 
made it one of the fundamental optimization problems. This NP-complete problem 
refers to the task of finding a variable assignment that satisfies the maximum 
number of clauses (or the sum of weights of satisfied clauses) in a Boolean 
formula. The Walksat algorithm is considered to be the main skeleton underlying 
almost all local search algorithms for MAX-SAT. Most local search algorithms 
including Walksat rely on the 1-flip neighborhood structure. This paper 
introduces a variable neighborhood walksat-based algorithm. The neighborhood 
structure can be combined easily using any local search algorithm. Its 
effectiveness is compared with existing algorithms using 1-flip neighborhood 
structure and solvers such as CCLS and Optimax from the eighth MAX-SAT 
evaluation.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/798323
PMCID: PMC4142167
PMID: 25177732 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1189. Behav Brain Funct. 2014 Sep 1;10(1):29. doi: 10.1186/1744-9081-10-29.

Stuttering candidate genes DRD2 but not SLC6A3 is associated with developmental 
dyslexia in Chinese population.

Chen H, Wang G, Xia J, Zhou Y, Gao Y, Xu J, Huen MS, Siok WT, Jiang Y, Tan 
LH(1), Sun Y.

Author information:
(1)National Engineering Research Center for Beijing Biochip Technology, Beijing, 
China. tanlh@hku.hk.

BACKGROUND: Dyslexia is a polygenic developmental disorder characterized by 
difficulties in reading and spelling despite normal intelligence, educational 
backgrounds and perception. Increasing evidences indicated that dyslexia may 
share similar genetic mechanisms with other speech and language disorders. We 
proposed that stuttering candidate genes, DRD2 and SLC6A3, might be associated 
with dyslexia.
METHODS AND RESULTS: The study was conducted in an unrelated Chinese cohort with 
502 dyslexic cases and 522 healthy controls. In total, 23 Tag SNPs covering the 
two genes were selected for genotyping through Tagger program. Association 
analysis was performed on each SNP alone and in haplotypes. One SNP markers in 
DRD2 showed significant association with developmental dyslexia.
CONCLUSION: These findings indicate that polymorphism of DRD2 gene may be a risk 
factor of developmental dyslexia in the Chinese population.

DOI: 10.1186/1744-9081-10-29
PMCID: PMC4236612
PMID: 25178928 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1190. Int J Psychol. 2014 Oct;49(5):409-14. doi: 10.1002/ijop.12032. Epub 2014 Jan 6.

Effects of verbal ability and fluid intelligence on children's emotion 
understanding.

De Stasio S(1), Fiorilli C, Di Chiacchio C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Movement, Human and Health Sciences, Division of Human and 
Social Sciences, Foro Italico University of Rome, Rome, Italy.

This study investigated the role of verbal ability and fluid intelligence on 
children's emotion understanding, testing the hypothesis that fluid intelligence 
predicts the development of emotion comprehension over and above age and verbal 
ability. One hundred and two children (48 girls) aged 3.6-6 years completed the 
Test of Emotion Comprehension (TEC) that comprised external and mental 
components, the Coloured Progressive Matrices and the Test for Reception of 
Grammar. Regression analysis showed that fluid intelligence was not equally 
related to the external and mental components of the TEC (Pons & Harris, 2000). 
Specifically, the results indicated that the external component was related to 
age and verbal ability only, whereas recognition of mental emotional patterns 
required abstract reasoning skills more than age and verbal ability. It is 
concluded that the development of fluid intelligence has a significant role in 
the development of mental component of emotion comprehension.

© 2014 International Union of Psychological Science.

DOI: 10.1002/ijop.12032
PMID: 25178964 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1191. Res Autism Spectr Disord. 2014 Nov 1;8(11):1434-1442. doi: 
10.1016/j.rasd.2014.07.015.

A Comparison of Measures for Assessing the Level and Nature of Intelligence in 
Verbal Children and Adults with Autism Spectrum Disorder.

Bodner KE(1), Williams DL(2), Engelhardt CR(3), Minshew NJ(4).

Author information:
(1)NIH Autism Center of Excellence, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, 
3811 O'Hara Street, Suite 300 Webster Hall, Pittsburgh, PA 15213-2593, .
(2)NIH Autism Center of Excellence, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, 
3811 O'Hara Street, Suite 300 Webster Hall, Pittsburgh, PA 15213-2593, , ; 
Speech-Language Pathology, Rangos School of Health Sciences, Fisher Hall 409, 
Duquesne University, 600 Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA 15282, Phone: +1 (412) 
396-4217, Fax: +1 (412) 396-4196, williamsd2139@duq.edu.
(3)Department of Health Psychology, Thompson Center for Autism & 
Neurodevelopmental Disorders, University of Missouri, 205 Portland Street, 
Columbia, MO, 65211, , , engelhardtc@health.missouri.edu.
(4)NIH Autism Center of Excellence, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, 
3811 O'Hara Street, Suite 300 Webster Hall, Pittsburgh, PA 15213-2593, , ; 
University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Departments of Psychiatry & 
Neurology, 3811 O'Hara Street, Suite 300 Webster Hall, Pittsburgh, PA 
15213-2593, Phone: +1 (412) 246-5460, Fax: +1 (412) 246-5470, 
minshewnj@upmc.edu.

Previous work has suggested that the Raven's Progressive Matrices (RPM) are 
better suited for capturing the nature of intelligence for individuals with 
autism spectrum disorder (ASD) than the Wechsler scales. The RPM measures 'fluid 
intelligence', an area for which it has been argued that persons with ASD have a 
relative strength. Given that measures of intelligence are used for establishing 
clinical diagnoses, for making educational decisions, and for group-matching in 
research studies, continued examination of this contention is warranted. In the 
current study, verbal children with ASD performed moderately better on the RPM 
than on the Wechsler scales; children without ASD received higher percentile 
scores on the Wechsler than on the RPM. Adults with and without ASD received 
higher percentile scores on the Wechsler than the RPM. Results suggest that the 
RPM and Wechsler scales measure different aspects of cognitive abilities in 
verbal individuals with ASD. For the verbal children and adults with ASD in the 
current study, the RPM and Wechsler scales have unique contributions that must 
be considered in context when establishing a baseline of cognitive function. The 
results of this investigation highlight the importance of thoughtfully selecting 
appropriate measures of intelligence consistent with clinical, educational, and 
research purposes, especially for verbal children and adults with ASD.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rasd.2014.07.015
PMCID: PMC4148695
PMID: 25180048


1192. Arch Public Health. 2014 Aug 18;72(1):27. doi: 10.1186/2049-3258-72-27. 
eCollection 2014.

Protocol of the PSYCHOTSH study: association between neonatal thyroid 
stimulating hormone concentration and intellectual, psychomotor and psychosocial 
development at 4-5 year of age: a retrospective cohort study.

Trumpff C(1), Vanderfaeillie J(2), Vercruysse N(3), De Schepper J(4), Tafforeau 
J(5), Van Oyen H(5), Vandevijvere S(5).

Author information:
(1)Unit of Public Health and Surveillance, Scientific Institute of Public 
Health, Brussels, Belgium ; Faculté des Sciences Psychologiques et de 
l'Education, Université Libre de Bruxelles, Brussels, Belgium.
(2)Faculty of Psychology and Educational Sciences, Vrije Universiteit Brussel, 
Brussels, Belgium.
(3)Faculté des Sciences Psychologiques et de l'Education, Université Libre de 
Bruxelles, Brussels, Belgium.
(4)Department of Paediatric Endocrinology, UZ Brussel, Brussels, Belgium.
(5)Unit of Public Health and Surveillance, Scientific Institute of Public 
Health, Brussels, Belgium.

BACKGROUND: Several European countries, including Belgium, still suffer from 
mild iodine deficiency. Thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) concentration in whole 
blood measured at birth has been proposed as an indicator of maternal iodine 
status during the last trimester of pregnancy. It has been shown that mild 
iodine deficiency during pregnancy may affect the neurodevelopment of the 
offspring. In several studies, elevated TSH levels at birth were associated with 
suboptimal cognitive and psychomotor outcomes among young children. This paper 
describes the protocol of the PSYCHOTSH study aiming to assess the association 
between neonatal TSH levels and intellectual, psychomotor and psychosocial 
development of 4-5 year old children. The results could lead to a reassessment 
of the recommended cut-off levels of 5 > mU/L used for monitoring iodine status 
of the population.
METHODS: In total, 380 Belgian 4-5 year old preschool children from Brussels and 
Wallonia with a neonatal blood spot TSH concentration between 0 and 15 mU/L are 
included in the study. For each sex and TSH-interval (0-1, 1-2, 2-3, 3-4, 4-5, 
5-6, 6-7, 7-8, 8-9 and 9-15 mU/L), 19 newborns were randomly selected from all 
newborns screened by the neonatal screening centre in Brussels in 2008-2009. 
Infants with congenital hypothyroidism, low birth weight and prematurity were 
excluded from the study. Neonatal TSH concentration was measured by the 
Autodelphia method in dried blood spots, collected by heel stick on filter paper 
3 to 5 days after birth. Cognitive abilities and psychomotor development are 
assessed using the Wechsler Preschool and Primary Scale of Intelligence - third 
edition - and the Charlop-Atwell Scale of Motor coordination. Psychosocial 
development is measured using the Child Behaviour Check List for age 1½ to 
5 years old. In addition, several socioeconomic, parental and child confounding 
factors are assessed.
CONCLUSIONS: This study aims to clarify the effect of mild iodine deficiency 
during pregnancy on the neurodevelopment of the offspring. Therefore, the 
results may have important implications for future public health 
recommendations, policies and practices in food supplementation. In addition, 
the results may have implications for the use of neonatal TSH screening results 
for monitoring the population iodine status and may lead to the definition of 
new TSH cut-offs for determination of the severity of iodine status and for 
practical use in data reporting by neonatal screening centres.

DOI: 10.1186/2049-3258-72-27
PMCID: PMC4150557
PMID: 25180082


1193. Med Teach. 2015 May;37(5):457-62. doi: 10.3109/0142159X.2014.956052. Epub 2014 
Sep 2.

Thirty years of illness scripts: Theoretical origins and practical applications.

Custers EJ(1).

Author information:
(1)University Medical Center Utrecht , The Netherlands.

AIM: This study describes the introduction and spread of the concept of "illness 
script" in the medical education literature.
METHOD: First, I will concisely discuss the development of the "script" concept 
in the general psychological literature and the results of the studies performed 
to provide it with the necessary empirical basis. Next, I will sketch how 
"scripts" entered the medical domain via efforts to develop diagnostic systems 
in the field of artificial intelligence. Subsequently, I will describe how the 
illness script concept was elaborated and specified by medical educators and 
educational researchers.
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: The illness script concept has solid underpinnings and 
can be used to elucidate aspects of medical expertise development. It can also 
be used to formulate recommendations for clinical teaching and has yielded a 
specific test, the Script Concordance Test.

DOI: 10.3109/0142159X.2014.956052
PMID: 25180878 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1194. J Forens Psychiatry Psychol. 2014 Sep 3;25(5):600-612. doi: 
10.1080/14789949.2014.943798. Epub 2014 Aug 12.

Psychopathy, intelligence and emotional responding in a non-forensic sample: an 
experimental investigation.

Bate C(1), Boduszek D(1), Dhingra K(1), Bale C(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Huddersfield , West Yorkshire , UK.

This study examined the relationships between psychopathy (primary and 
secondary), intelligence and emotional responding in a sample of 50 university 
students, using a task measuring autonomic responses to 40 pictorial stimuli (20 
neutral and 20 emotionally provoking). Results indicated no significant direct 
relationship between primary or secondary psychopathy and emotional response, or 
primary or secondary psychopathy and intelligence. However, a significant 
moderating effect of intelligence on the association between both psychopathy 
factors and emotional response was observed, indicating those scoring higher on 
psychopathy but with lower intelligence portray the expected emotional responses 
to the affective stimuli (primary: β = -.56, p < .05; secondary: β = .80, 
p < .001). These findings indicate abnormal reactivity to emotional stimuli in 
lower intelligence, higher psychopathic individuals, and suggest differing roles 
for the two facets of psychopathy in affective responsiveness deviations.

DOI: 10.1080/14789949.2014.943798
PMCID: PMC4720052
PMID: 26855616


1195. J Gerontol B Psychol Sci Soc Sci. 2016 Jan;71(1):49-58. doi: 
10.1093/geronb/gbu063. Epub 2014 Sep 2.

Aging Cognition Unconfounded by Prior Test Experience.

Salthouse TA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Virginia, Charlottesville. 
salthouse@virginia.edu.

OBJECTIVE: Investigate time-related age differences in cognitive functioning 
without influences of prior test experience.
METHODS: Cognitive scores were compared in different individuals from the same 
birth years who were tested in different years, when they were at different 
ages. These types of quasi-longitudinal comparisons were carried out on data 
from three large projects: the Seattle Longitudinal Study [Schaie, K. W. (2013). 
Developmental influences on adult intelligence: The Seattle Longitudinal Study 
(2nd ed.). New York, NY: Oxford University Press], the Betula Project [Ronnlund, 
M., & Nilsson, L-G. (2008). The magnitude, generality, and determinants of Flynn 
effects on forms of declarative memory and visuospatial ability: Time-sequential 
analyses of data from a Swedish cohort study. Intelligence, 36, 192-209], and 
the Virginia Cognitive Aging Project (this study).
RESULTS: In each data set, the results revealed that the estimates of cognitive 
change with no prior test experience closely resembled the estimates of age 
relations based on cross-sectional comparisons. Furthermore, longitudinal 
comparisons revealed positive changes at young ages that gradually became more 
negative with increased age, whereas all of the estimates of change without 
prior test experience were negative except those for measures of vocabulary.
DISCUSSION: The current results suggest that retest effects can distort the mean 
age trends in longitudinal comparisons that are not adjusted for experience. 
Furthermore, the findings can be considered robust because the patterns were 
similar across three data sets involving different samples of participants and 
cognitive tests, and across different methods of controlling experience effects 
in the new data set.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The 
Gerontological Society of America. All rights reserved. For permissions, please 
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/geronb/gbu063
PMCID: PMC4840365
PMID: 25182845 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1196. J Hist Behav Sci. 2014 Fall;50(4):359-75. doi: 10.1002/jhbs.21692. Epub 2014 Sep 
2.

Searching for South Asian intelligence: psychometry in British India, 1919-1940.

Setlur S.

This paper describes the introduction and development of intelligence testing in 
British India. Between 1919 and 1940 experimenters such as C. Herbert Rice, 
Prasanta Chandra Mahalanobis, and Venkatrao Vithal Kamat imported a number of 
intelligence tests, adapting them to suit a variety of South Asian languages and 
contexts. Charting South Asian psychometry's gradual move from American 
missionary efforts toward the state, this paper argues that political reforms in 
the 1920s and 1930s affected how psychometry was "indigenized" in South Asia. 
Describing how approaches to race and caste shifted across instruments and over 
time, this paper charts the gradual recession, within South Asian psychometry, 
of a "race" theory of caste. Describing some of the ways in which this "late 
colonial" period affected the postcolonial landscape, the paper concludes by 
suggesting potential lines for further inquiry into the later career of 
intelligence testing in India and Pakistan.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jhbs.21692
PMID: 25183435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1197. J Tradit Chin Med. 2014 Aug;34(4):450-4. doi: 10.1016/s0254-6272(15)30045-5.

Does acupuncture have a positive effect on school success in children?

Tas D, Acar HV.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate school success in pediatric patients undergoing 
acupuncture treatment for various indications.
METHODS: The grades achieved during both school terms by children undergoing 
acupuncture treatment for various indications at the pediatric outpatient clinic 
of Ulus State Hospital were analyzed. Exam grades in mathematics, social 
studies, and Turkish was compared between the first and the second terms. Forty 
children were included in the study, with 22 male and 18 female, and their 
average age was 11.1 years. These patients were undergoing acupuncture treatment 
for attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), enuresis nocturna, 
migraine, obesity, atopic dermatitis, alopecia areata, and Tourette's syndrome. 
Treatments were done at the beginning of the second term. Four of the 25 
patients with ADHD had borderline intelligence quotients. The report cards of 
all 40 patients were examined, and their grades in the first and the second 
school term were compared.
RESULTS: There was a statistically significant increase in the grades obtained 
in mathematics, social studies, and Turkish (P < 0.005) by the students from the 
first to the second school term. When 4 ADHD patients with borderline deficiency 
in intelligence were excluded, and the grades among the 21 patients with ADHD 
were compared for both terms, there was also a statistically significant 
increase in mathematics, social studies, and Turkish grades (P < 0.05).
CONCLUSION: Acupuncture contributed to the academic success of the children who 
underwent acupuncture treatment for their primary symptoms.

DOI: 10.1016/s0254-6272(15)30045-5
PMID: 25185363 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1198. Eur J Pediatr. 2015 Mar;174(3):383-91. doi: 10.1007/s00431-014-2412-5. Epub 2014 
Sep 5.

Early exposure to thimerosal-containing vaccines and children's cognitive 
development. A 9-year prospective birth cohort study in Poland.

Mrozek-Budzyn D(1), Majewska R, Kiełtyka A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Chair of Epidemiology and Preventive Medicine, 
Jagiellonian University Medical College, Kopernika 7a St, 31-034, Krakow, 
Poland, dorota.mrozek-budzyn@uj.edu.pl.

Comment in
    Eur J Pediatr. 2015 Nov;174(11):1555.
    Eur J Pediatr. 2015 Nov;174(11):1557-8.

The controversial topic of the early exposure to mercury is regarding 
ethylmercury, which is present in the thimerosal-containing vaccines (TCVs). The 
objective of this study was to determine the relationship between the early 
exposure to TCVs and cognitive development in children during the first 9 years 
of life. The cohort included 318 children vaccinated in an early period 
(neonatal and up to 6 months) against hepatitis B and 
diphtheria-tetanus-pertussis (DTP) using formulation with or without thimerosal. 
The children's development was assessed using the Fagan test (6th month of 
life), the Bayley Scales of Infant Development (BSID)-II (12th-36th month), the 
Raven test (5th, 8th year), and the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children 
(WISC-R) (6th, 7th, 9th year). Results were determined by multivariable linear 
and logistic regression, adjusted to potential confounders. Children exposed and 
not exposed to TCVs in the neonatal period had similar outcomes of 
cognitive-developmental tests; only the results of BSID-II at the 36th month and 
WISC-R at the 9th year were significantly higher for those exposed to TCVs. 
Developmental test results in children exposed to TCVs up to the 6th month of 
life also did not depend on thimerosal dose.
CONCLUSION: TCV administration in early infancy did not affect children's 
cognitive development.

DOI: 10.1007/s00431-014-2412-5
PMCID: PMC4334107
PMID: 25185528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1199. Br J Educ Psychol. 2014 Dec;84(Pt 4):667-84. doi: 10.1111/bjep.12056. Epub 2014 
Sep 4.

Incremental validity of WISC-IV(UK) factor index scores with a referred Irish 
sample: predicting performance on the WIAT-II(UK.).

Canivez GL(1), Watkins MW, James T, Good R, James K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Eastern Illinois University, Charleston, Illinois, 
USA.

BACKGROUND: Subtest and factor scores have typically provided little incremental 
predictive validity beyond the omnibus IQ score.
AIMS: This study examined the incremental validity of Wechsler Intelligence 
Scale for Children - Fourth UK Edition (WISC-IV(UK) ; Wechsler, 2004a, Wechsler 
Intelligence Scale for Children - Fourth UK Edition, Harcourt Assessment, 
London, UK) and factor index scores in predicting academic achievement on the 
Wechsler Individual Achievement Test - Second UK Edition (WIAT-II(UK) ; 
Wechsler, 2005a, Wechsler Individual Achievement Test-Second UK Edition, 
Pearson, London, UK), beyond that predicted by the WISC-IV(UK) FSIQ.
SAMPLE: The sample included 1,014 Irish children (ages 6-0 to 16-9) who were 
referred for evaluation of learning difficulties.
METHOD: Hierarchical multiple regression analyses were used with the WISC-IV(UK) 
FSIQ (Block 1) and factor index scores (Block 2) as predictors and WIAT-II(UK) 
subtest and composite scores as dependent variables.
RESULTS: The WISC-IV(UK) FSIQ accounted for statistically significant and 
generally large portions of WIAT-II(UK) subtest and composite score variance. 
WISC-IV(UK) factor index scores combined to provide statistically significant 
increments in prediction of most WIAT-II(UK) subtest and composite scores over 
and above the FSIQ; however, the effect sizes were mostly small as previously 
observed (i.e., Canivez, 2013a, Psychol. Assess., 25, 484; Glutting et al., 
2006, J. Spec. Educ., 40, 103; Nelson et al., 2013, Psychol. Assess., 25, 618). 
Individually, the WISC-IV(UK) factor index scores provided small unique 
contributions to predicting WIAT-II(UK) scores.
CONCLUSION: This, in combination with studies of apportioned variance from 
bifactor confirmatory factor analysis (Watkins et al., 2013, Int. J. Sch. Educ. 
Psychol., 1, 102), indicated that the WISC-IV(UK) FSIQ should retain the 
greatest weight in WISC-IV(UK) interpretation.

© 2014 The British Psychological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/bjep.12056
PMID: 25185753 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1200. J Neurophysiol. 2015 Jun 1;113(10):3459-61. doi: 10.1152/jn.00600.2014. Epub 
2014 Sep 3.

Intelligence moderates reinforcement learning: a mini-review of the neural 
evidence.

Chen C(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Hokkaido University Graduate School of Medicine, 
Sapporo, Japan cchen@med.hokudai.ac.jp.

Our understanding of the neural basis of reinforcement learning and 
intelligence, two key factors contributing to human strivings, has progressed 
significantly recently. However, the overlap of these two lines of research, 
namely, how intelligence affects neural responses during reinforcement learning, 
remains uninvestigated. A mini-review of three existing studies suggests that 
higher IQ (especially fluid IQ) may enhance the neural signal of positive 
prediction error in dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, dorsal anterior cingulate 
cortex, and striatum, several brain substrates of reinforcement learning or 
intelligence.

Copyright © 2015 the American Physiological Society.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00600.2014
PMCID: PMC4455485
PMID: 25185818 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1201. Bioethics. 2015 Jun;29(5):369-77. doi: 10.1111/bioe.12108. Epub 2014 Sep 3.

Preventing ultimate harm as the justification for biomoral modification.

Murphy TF.

Most advocates of biogenetic modification hope to amplify existing human traits 
in humans in order to increase the value of such traits as intelligence and 
resistance to disease. These advocates defend such enhancements as beneficial 
for the affected parties. By contrast, some commentators recommend certain 
biogenetic modifications to serve social goals. As Ingmar Persson and Julian 
Savulescu see things, human moral psychology is deficient relative to the most 
important risks facing humanity as a whole, including the prospect of Ultimate 
Harm, the point at which worthwhile life is forever impossible on the planet. 
These risks can be mitigated, they say, by enhancing moral psychology in novel 
ways. Persson and Savulescu argue that some parents should modify the underlying 
biogenetics of their children's moral psychology, if such measures were safe and 
effective, but they admit these interventions may not decouple humanity from 
Ultimate Harm. Neither are these modifications the only options, they concede, 
for addressing risks to humanity. Even with these concessions, saving humanity 
from itself is a fairly poor reason to modify the moral psychology of children. 
In most ways, adults would be better candidates, morally speaking, for 
modifications of psychology. Even then, there is no direct link between morally 
enhanced human beings and the hoped-for effect of better protection from 
Ultimate Harm. Asserting a general duty of all to contribute to the avoidance of 
Ultimate Harm is a better moral strategy than intervening in the moral 
psychology of some, even though meeting that duty may involve substantial 
interference with the free exercise of one's interests.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/bioe.12108
PMID: 25186171 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1202. Trials. 2014 Sep 3;15:345. doi: 10.1186/1745-6215-15-345.

A combination of ascorbic acid and α-tocopherol to test the effectiveness and 
safety in the fragile X syndrome: study protocol for a phase II, randomized, 
placebo-controlled trial.

de Diego-Otero Y(1), Calvo-Medina R, Quintero-Navarro C, Sánchez-Salido L, 
García-Guirado F, del Arco-Herrera I, Fernández-Carvajal I, Ferrando-Lucas T, 
Caballero-Andaluz R, Pérez-Costillas L.

Author information:
(1)Unidad de Gestión Clínica de Salud Mental, Hospital Regional Universitario de 
Málaga, Instituto de Investigación Biomédica de Málaga (IBIMA), Hospital Civil, 
Pabellón 2 bajo, Plaza del Hospital Civil S/N, 29009 Málaga, Spain. 
yolanda.diego.exts@juntadeandalucia.es.

BACKGROUND: Fragile X syndrome (FXS) is an inherited neurodevelopmental 
condition characterised by behavioural, learning disabilities, physical and 
neurological symptoms. In addition, an important degree of comorbidity with 
autism is also present. Considered a rare disorder affecting both genders, it 
first becomes apparent during childhood with displays of language delay and 
behavioural symptoms.Main aim: To show whether the combination of 10 mg/kg/day 
of ascorbic acid (vitamin C) and 10 mg/kg/day of α-tocopherol (vitamin E) 
reduces FXS symptoms among male patients ages 6 to 18 years compared to placebo 
treatment, as measured on the standardized rating scales at baseline, and after 
12 and 24 weeks of treatment.Secondary aims: To assess the safety of the 
treatment. To describe behavioural and cognitive changes revealed by the 
Developmental Behaviour Checklist Short Form (DBC-P24) and the Wechsler 
Intelligence Scale for Children-Revised. To describe metabolic changes revealed 
by blood analysis. To measure treatment impact at home and in an academic 
environment.
METHODS/DESIGN: A phase II randomized, double-blind pilot clinical trial.
SCOPE: male children and adolescents diagnosed with FXS, in accordance with a 
standardized molecular biology test, who met all the inclusion criteria and none 
of the exclusion criteria.
INSTRUMENTATION: clinical data, blood analysis, Wechsler Intelligence Scale for 
Children-Revised, Conners parent and teacher rating scale scores and the DBC-P24 
results will be obtained at the baseline (t0). Follow up examinations will take 
place at 12 weeks (t1) and 24 weeks (t2) of treatment.
DISCUSSION: A limited number of clinical trials have been carried out on 
children with FXS, but more are necessary as current treatment possibilities are 
insufficient and often provoke side effects. In the present study, we sought to 
overcome possible methodological problems by conducting a phase II pilot study 
in order to calculate the relevant statistical parameters and determine the 
safety of the proposed treatment. The results will provide evidence to improve 
hyperactivity control and reduce behavioural and learning problems using 
ascorbic acid (vitamin C) and α-tocopherol (vitamin E). The study protocol was 
approved by the Regional Government Committee for Clinical Trials in Andalusia 
and the Spanish agency for drugs and health products.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT01329770 (29 March 2011).

DOI: 10.1186/1745-6215-15-345
PMCID: PMC4168067
PMID: 25187257 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1203. J Psychoactive Drugs. 2014 Oct-Dec;46(4):287-94. doi: 
10.1080/02791072.2014.944291.

"Spice," "kryptonite," "black mamba": an overview of brand names and marketing 
strategies of novel psychoactive substances on the web.

Corazza O(1), Valeriani G, Bersani FS, Corkery J, Martinotti G, Bersani G, 
Schifano F.

Author information:
(1)a Principal Lecturer and Academic Research Lead, School of Life and Medical 
Sciences , University of Hertfordshire , Hertfordshire, UK.

Abstract Introduction: Novel Psychoactive Substances (NPSs) are often sold 
online as "legal" and "safer" alternatives to International Controlled Drugs 
(ICDs) with captivating marketing strategies. Our aim was to review and 
summarize such strategies in terms of the appearance of the products, the brand 
names, and the latest trends in the illicit online marketplaces.
METHODS: Scientific data were searched in PsychInfo and Pubmed databases; 
results were integrated with an extensive monitoring of Internet (websites, 
online shops, chat rooms, fora, social networks) and media sources in nine 
languages (English, French, Farsi, Portuguese, Arabic, Russian, Spanish, and 
Chinese simplified/traditional) available from secure databases of the Global 
Public Health Intelligence Network.
RESULTS: Evolving strategies for the online diffusion and the retail of NPSs 
have been identified, including discounts and periodic offers on chosen 
products. Advertisements and new brand names have been designed to attract 
customers, especially young people. An increased number of retailers have been 
recorded as well as new Web platforms and privacy systems.
DISCUSSION: NPSs represent an unprecedented challenge in the field of public 
health with social, cultural, legal, and political implications. Web monitoring 
activities are essential for mapping the diffusion of NPSs and for supporting 
innovative Web-based prevention programmes.

DOI: 10.1080/02791072.2014.944291
PMID: 25188698 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1204. Zhonghua Er Ke Za Zhi. 2014 Jun;52(6):403-8.

[Analysis of clinical features and arylsulfatase B gene mutation in thirteen 
Chinese children with mucopolysaccharidosis type VI].

[Article in Chinese]

Zheng J(1), Huang Y(2), Zhao X(1), Sheng H(1), Cheng J(1), Zhou Z(1), Li X(1), 
Mao X(1), Liu L(1).

Author information:
(1)The Guangzhou Women and Children's Medical Centre, Guangzhou 510623, China.
(2)The Guangzhou Women and Children's Medical Centre, Guangzhou 510623, China. 
Email: xxhuang321@163.com.

OBJECTIVE: Mucopolysaccharidosis type VI (MPS VI) or Maroteaux-Lamy syndrome is 
an autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disease caused by a deficiency of 
arylsulfatase B(ARSB), which is required in the degradation of dermatan sulfate 
and chondroitin sulfate. The deficiency of ARSB leads to an accumulation of 
dermatan sulfate and chondroitin sulfate in lysosomes and gross excretion in the 
urine.Few articles about clinical study and ARSB gene mutation analysis of 
Chinese MPS VI patients were published. This study aimed to explore the clinical 
features and characteristics of ARSB gene in Chinese children with MPS VI.
METHOD: Thirteen children were diagnosed as MPS VI by ARSB enzyme activity 
determination during the period from 2009 to 2013. Their clinical features, 
radiological findings and urine glycosaminoglycan (GAG) levels were 
retrospectively reviewed. Direct sequencing was used to identify any mutation in 
the ARSB gene.
RESULT: Thirteen children were diagnosed at the average age of (3.9 ± 2.2) years 
with 6 male and 7 female. All of these children presented with severe form and 
onset at an early age of (1.5 ± 0.8) years.Other clinical features included 
coarse facies, short stature, skeleton deformity, corneal clouding, 
hepatosplenomegaly with normal intelligence. The radiological findings in all 
children were characteristic of dysostosis multiplex, like abnormal development 
of vertebral bodies of the spine, campylorrhachia and paddle-shaped widened 
ribs. The MRI in case 2 showed cervical cord compression and multiple cysts 
degeneration in the corona radiate, cella lateralis and callosum.High urine GAG 
levels were detected, (307.10 ± 112.14) mg/L (Normally below 70 mg/L) and 
(722.28 ± 245.68) µg/mg creatinine. The ARSB enzyme activity in leukocytes was 
low, (13.29 ± 6.22) nmol/(mg×h) [Normal range (47-169) nmol/(mg×h)] by 
fluorogenic assay and (0.24 ± 0.18) U/g [Normal range (1.01-11.47) U/g] by 
colorimetric assay. A total of 11 mutations were identified by molecular 
analysis, including seven previously reported mutations (p.L72R, p.G167R, 
p.G303E, p.F399L, p. T442M, p.Y255X and p.R327X) and four novel mutations 
(p.Y175D, p.S403X, p.S464X and large deletion including ex. 2, 3). The c.1197C>G 
(p.F399L) mutation was the most common mutation in this study (31%).
CONCLUSION: The severe form of MPS VI is characterized by early onset and rapid 
illness progression. Both the radiological findings and increased urine GAG are 
important clues to diagnose MPS VI.Large decrease or absence of ARSB activity is 
diagnostic for MPS VI.Four novel mutations of ARSB gene were identified. The 
reported mutation c.1197C>G (p.F399L) was the hot-spot mutation in this study.

PMID: 25190157 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1205. Zhonghua Er Ke Za Zhi. 2014 Jun;52(6):415-9.

[Clinical and laboratory studies on 28 patients with glutaric aciduria type 1].

[Article in Chinese]

Wang Q(1), Ding Y(1), Liu Y(1), Li X(1), Wu T(1), Song J(1), Wang Y(1), Yang 
Y(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Peking University First Hospital, Beijing 100034, 
China.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, Peking University First Hospital, Beijing 100034, 
China. Email: organic.acid@126.com.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the clinical, biochemical and genetic profiles of 28 
Chinese patients with glutaric aciduria type 1.
METHOD: Twenty-eight patients with glutaric aciduria type 1 seen in the 
Department of Pediatrics, Peking University First Hospital from July 2003 to 
October 2013 were studied. The data of clinical course, laboratory examinations, 
cranial MRI and GCDH gene mutations of the patients were analyzed.
RESULT: (1) Three cases were detected by newborn screening, and the other 
patients were diagnosed at the age of 2 months to 17 years. (2) 22 patients 
(79%) were infant onset cases with psychomotor retardation, dystonia, seizures, 
athetosis, recurrent vomiting, drowsiness or feeding difficulty. Only two of the 
22 patients with infant onset got normal intelligence and movement after 
treatment. Twenty of them were improved slowly with delayed development, 
dystonia and other neurological problems. Three patients (11%) had late onset. 
They had motor regression, headache and seizure at the age of 8, 9 and 17 years, 
respectively. Rapid improvement was observed after treatment. (3) Cranial MRI 
has been checked in 23 patients; 22 of them showed characteristic widening of 
the Sylvian fissure, abnormalities of the basal ganglia, leukoencephalopathy and 
brain atrophy. Thirty-five mutations in GCDH gene of the patients were 
identified; c.148T>C (p.W50R) was the most common mutation with the frequency of 
7.7%; 6 mutations (c.628A>G, c.700C>T, c.731G>T, c.963G>C, c.1031C>T and 
c.1109T>C) were novel.
CONCLUSION: Glutaric aciduria type 1 usually induced neurological deterioration 
resulting in severe psychomotor retardation and dystonia. Most of our patients 
were clinically diagnosed. Patients with early onset usually remained having 
neurological damage. Phenotype and genotype correlation has not been found in 
the patients. Neonatal screening for organic acidurias should be expanded in 
China.

PMID: 25190159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1206. Front Med. 2014 Sep;8(3):310-5. doi: 10.1007/s11684-014-0358-7. Epub 2014 Sep 3.

Scientific computation of big data in real-world clinical research.

Li G(1), Zuo X, Liu B.

Author information:
(1)China Academy of Chinese Medical Science, Beijing, 100700, China, 
gzli@tongji.edu.cn.

The advent of the big data era creates both opportunities and challenges for 
traditional Chinese medicine (TCM). This study describes the origin, concept, 
connotation, and value of studies regarding the scientific computation of TCM. 
It also discusses the integration of science, technology, and medicine under the 
guidance of the paradigm of real-world, clinical scientific research. TCM 
clinical diagnosis, treatment, and knowledge were traditionally limited to 
literature and sensation levels; however, primary methods are used to convert 
them into statistics, such as the methods of feature subset optimizing, 
multi-label learning, and complex networks based on complexity, intelligence, 
data, and computing sciences. Furthermore, these methods are applied in the 
modeling and analysis of the various complex relationships in individualized 
clinical diagnosis and treatment, as well as in decision-making related to such 
diagnosis and treatment. Thus, these methods strongly support the real-world 
clinical research paradigm of TCM.

DOI: 10.1007/s11684-014-0358-7
PMID: 25190349 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1207. J Nutr Sci. 2014 May 7;3:e11. doi: 10.1017/jns.2014.10. eCollection 2014.

Plasma lutein concentrations are related to dietary intake, but unrelated to 
dietary saturated fat or cognition in young children.

Mulder KA(1), Innis SM(1), Rasmussen BF(1), Wu BT(1), Richardson KJ(1), Hasman 
D(1).

Author information:
(1)Nutrition and Metabolism Program, Child and Family Research Institute, 
Department of Paediatrics, Faculty of Medicine , University of British Columbia 
, Vancouver, BC, Canada V5Z 4H4.

Lutein and zeaxanthin are xanthophyll carotenoids present in highly pigmented 
vegetables and fruits. Lutein is selectively accumulated in the brain relative 
to other carotenoids. Recent evidence has linked lutein to cognition in older 
adults, but little is known about lutein in young children, despite structural 
brain development. We determined lutein intake using FFQ, one 24 h recall and 
three 24 h recalls, plasma lutein concentrations and their association with 
cognition in 160 children 5·6-5·9 years of age, at low risk for 
neurodevelopmental delay. Plasma lutein was skewed, with a median of 0·23 (2·5th 
to 95th percentile range 0·11-0·53) µmol/l. Plasma lutein showed a higher 
correlation with lutein intake estimated as the average of three 24 h recalls (r 
0·479; P = 0·001), rather than one 24 h recall (r 0·242; P = 0·003) or FFQ (r 
0·316; P = 0·001). The median lutein intake was 697 (2·5th to 95th percentile 
range 178-5287) µg/d based on three 24 h recalls. Lutein intake was inversely 
associated with SFA intake, but dietary fat or SFA intakes were not associated 
with plasma lutein. No associations were found between plasma lutein or lutein 
intake and any measure of cognition. While subtle independent effects of lutein 
on child cognition are possible, separating these effects from covariates making 
an impact on both child diet and cognition may be difficult.

DOI: 10.1017/jns.2014.10
PMCID: PMC4153091
PMID: 25191603


1208. IEEE J Biomed Health Inform. 2014 Sep;18(5):1525-32. doi: 
10.1109/JBHI.2014.2312352.

Logic-centered architecture for ubiquitous health monitoring.

Lewandowski J, Arochena HE, Naguib RN, Chao KM, Garcia-Perez A.

One of the key points to maintain and boost research and development in the area 
of smart wearable systems (SWS) is the development of integrated architectures 
for intelligent services, as well as wearable systems and devices for health and 
wellness management. This paper presents such a generic architecture for 
multiparametric, intelligent and ubiquitous wireless sensing platforms. It is a 
transparent, smartphone-based sensing framework with customizable wireless 
interfaces and plug'n'play capability to easily interconnect third party sensor 
devices. It caters to wireless body, personal, and near-me area networks. A 
pivotal part of the platform is the integrated inference engine/runtime 
environment that allows the mobile device to serve as a user-adaptable personal 
health assistant. The novelty of this system lays in a rapid visual development 
and remote deployment model. The complementary visual Inference Engine Editor 
that comes with the package enables artificial intelligence specialists, 
alongside with medical experts, to build data processing models by assembling 
different components and instantly deploying them (remotely) on patient mobile 
devices. In this paper, the new logic-centered software architecture for 
ubiquitous health monitoring applications is described, followed by a discussion 
as to how it helps to shift focus from software and hardware development, to 
medical and health process-centered design of new SWS applications.

DOI: 10.1109/JBHI.2014.2312352
PMID: 25192566 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1209. Neuroimage. 2014 Nov 15;102 Pt 2:756-63. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2014.08.048. 
Epub 2014 Sep 2.

The GABRB1 gene is associated with thalamus volume and modulates the association 
between thalamus volume and intelligence.

Zhu B(1), Chen C(2), Xue G(3), Lei X(3), Li J(3), Moyzis RK(4), Dong Q(3), Lin 
C(3).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Cognitive Neuroscience and Learning & IDG/McGovern 
Institute for Brain Research, Beijing Normal University, Beijing, China; Center 
for Collaboration and Innovation in Brain and Learning Sciences, Beijing Normal 
University, Beijing, China. Electronic address: psyzhubi@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Psychology and Social Behavior, University of California, 
Irvine, CA, USA. Electronic address: cschen@uci.edu.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Cognitive Neuroscience and Learning & IDG/McGovern 
Institute for Brain Research, Beijing Normal University, Beijing, China; Center 
for Collaboration and Innovation in Brain and Learning Sciences, Beijing Normal 
University, Beijing, China.
(4)Department of Biological Chemistry and Institute of Genomics and 
Bioinformatics, University of California, Irvine, CA, USA.

The GABRB1 gene encodes the beta 1 subunit of the gamma-aminobutyric acid A 
receptor (GABA A receptor), which is responsible for mediating inhibitory 
neurotransmission in the thalamus. Potential relationships between the GABRB1 
gene, thalamus volume, and intelligence have been suggested by previous clinical 
studies, but have not been directly examined among nonclinical samples. The 
current study collected structural MRI, genetic, and behavioral data from 316 
healthy Chinese adults (including 187 females and 129 males), and examined 
associations between GABRB1 variants, thalamus volume, and intelligence 
(measured by the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale Revised). After controlling 
for intracranial volume, sex, and age, GABRB1 genetic polymorphism at the SNP 
rs7435958 had the strongest association with thalamus volume (p = 0.002 and 
0.00008 for left and right thalamus volumes, respectively), with GG homozygotes 
having smaller bilateral thalamus volumes than the other genotypes. Furthermore, 
there were positive correlations between bilateral thalamus volumes and 
intelligence, especially for GABRB1 rs7435958 GG female homozygotes (r's = 0.31 
and 0.29, p < 0.01, for the correlations of intelligence with left and right 
thalamus volumes, respectively). This study provides the first evidence for the 
involvement of the GABRB1 gene in the thalamus structure and their interactive 
effects on intelligence. Future studies of the thalamus-intelligence 
associations should consider genetic factors as potential moderators.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2014.08.048
PMID: 25192656 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1210. J Bus Contin Emer Plan. 2014 Autumn;8(1):31-40.

Applying business intelligence innovations to emergency management.

Schlegelmilch J, Albanese J.

The use of business intelligence (BI) is common among corporations in the 
private sector to improve business decision making and create insights for 
competitive advantage. Increasingly, emergency management agencies are using 
tools and processes similar to BI systems. With a more thorough understanding of 
the principles of BI and its supporting technologies, and a careful comparison 
to the business model of emergency management, this paper seeks to provide 
insights into how lessons from the private sector can contribute to the 
development of effective and efficient emergency management BI utilisation.

PMID: 25193454


1211. J Neurosci Methods. 2014 Nov 30;237:108-17. doi: 10.1016/j.jneumeth.2014.08.024. 
Epub 2014 Sep 3.

BOOST: a supervised approach for multiple sclerosis lesion segmentation.

Cabezas M(1), Oliver A(2), Valverde S(2), Beltran B(3), Freixenet J(2), Vilanova 
JC(4), Ramió-Torrentà L(3), Rovira A(5), Lladó X(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Computer Architecture and Technology, University of Girona, 
Spain; Magnetic Resonance Unit, Department of Radiology, Vall d'Hebron 
University Hospital, Spain. Electronic address: mcabezas@eia.udg.edu.
(2)Department of Computer Architecture and Technology, University of Girona, 
Spain.
(3)Multiple Sclerosis and Neuroimmunology Unit, Dr. Josep Trueta University 
Hospital, Spain.
(4)Girona Magnetic Resonance Center, Spain.
(5)Magnetic Resonance Unit, Department of Radiology, Vall d'Hebron University 
Hospital, Spain.

BACKGROUND: Automatic multiple sclerosis lesion segmentation is a challenging 
task. An extensive analysis of the most recent techniques indicates an 
improvement of the results obtained when using prior knowledge and contextual 
information.
NEW METHOD: We present BOOST, a knowledge-based approach to automatically 
segment multiple sclerosis lesions through a voxel by voxel classification. We 
used the Gentleboost classifier and a set of features, including contextual 
features, registered atlas probability maps and an outlier map.
RESULTS: Results are computed on a set of 45 cases from three different 
hospitals (15 of each), obtaining a moderate agreement between the manual 
annotations and the automatically segmented results.
COMPARISON WITH EXISTING METHOD(S): We quantitatively compared our results with 
three public state-of-the-art approaches obtaining competitive results and a 
better overlap with manual annotations. Our approach tends to better segment 
those cases with high lesion load, while cases with small lesion load are more 
difficult to accurately segment.
CONCLUSIONS: We believe BOOST has potential applicability in the clinical 
practice, although it should be improved in those cases with small lesion load.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jneumeth.2014.08.024
PMID: 25194638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1212. Pediatr Neurol. 2014 Nov;51(5):681-7. doi: 10.1016/j.pediatrneurol.2014.07.024. 
Epub 2014 Jul 23.

Relationship between neurological assessments of preterm infants in the first 2 
years and cognitive outcome at school age.

Kodric J(1), Sustersic B(2), Paro-Panjan D(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of Paediatrics, Department of Neurology, University Medical Centre 
Ljubljana, Ljubljana, Slovenia.
(2)Developmental Department, Health Centre, Domzale, Slovenia.
(3)Division of Paediatrics, Department of Neonatology, University Medical Centre 
Ljubljana, Ljubljana, Slovenia. Electronic address: darja.paro@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: The risk of cognitive disability in preterm infants is higher than 
in general population. The Amiel-Tison neurological assessment could be a useful 
tool for early identification of preterm children at risk of cognitive 
disability in school age. This study investigated the value of categorization of 
neurological signs assessed by the Amiel-Tison neurological assessment in the 
first 2 years of life in relation to cognitive performance at school age in a 
group of preterm children.
METHODS: Preterm children with gestational age from 23 to 36 weeks were included 
in the prospective study. From the initial group of 45 children, in whom the 
Amiel-Tison neurological assessment was performed at term age, at 3 months 
corrected age, and at 2 years, the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for 
Children-third edition was performed in 39 children after school entry.
RESULTS: Full scale IQ, Verbal IQ, and Performance IQ of the whole group of 
preterm children were not significantly different from the normative data; most 
of the children had IQ scores in the normal range (≥85). The mean cognitive 
results of children decreased as the number of neurological signs increased. 
There was a significant correlation between the categories of neurological signs 
at 2 years and later cognitive results.
CONCLUSIONS: The grade of severity of neurological signs at 2 years was 
associated with the cognitive results at school age. The categorization of 
neurological signs according to the Amiel-Tison neurological assessment in 
preterm children might have prognostic value for cognitive outcome at school 
age.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pediatrneurol.2014.07.024
PMID: 25194723 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1213. Dev Ophthalmol. 2014;54:23-30. doi: 10.1159/000360445. Epub 2014 Aug 26.

Enhancing visual acuity.

Stalmans P(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University Hospitals Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.

The Enhancing Visual Acuity (EVA) System (Dutch Ophthalmic Research Centre 
International B.V.) features a unique fluid control system - VacuFlow Valve 
Timing Intelligence (VTi®) - and represents the next-generation evolution of 
pump machines. VacuFlow VTi® overcomes the limitations of existing Venturi and 
peristaltic pumps and provides the potential to enable safer, faster, and more 
precise techniques. Alongside many other innovative and functional features, 
such as a light-emitting diode light source, integrated laser, high cutting 
speed with twin duty cycle cutting, automated infusion compensation, wireless 
foot pedal, phaco module with thresholding, and viscous fluid module, EVA could 
make a major contribution to advancing ophthalmology.

© 2014 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000360445
PMID: 25196748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1214. Am Psychol. 2014 Sep;69(6):620-1. doi: 10.1037/a0037631.

Arnold A. Lazarus (1932-2013).

Davison GC(1), Wilson GT(2).

Author information:
(1)University of Southern California.
(2)Rutgers University.

Arnold A. Lazarus, distinguished professor emeritus at the Graduate School of 
Applied and Professional Psychology, Rutgers University, passed away on October 
1, 2013. He is regarded as one of the founders of behavior therapy and one of 
its leading practitioners and teachers. Throughout his career Lazarus enjoyed 
the rare distinction of being one of the most influential, creative, and highly 
regarded clinical practitioners in the field of clinical psychology. To those 
fortunate to have been his students, colleagues, or friends, Lazarus's 
intelligence, creativity, kindness, and mischievous and often irreverent wit 
made him very special indeed.

(c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/a0037631
PMID: 25197839 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1215. J Nurs Educ. 2014 Sep;53(9):501-10. doi: 10.3928/01484834-20140821-13.

Q-factor emotional intelligence profiles as an area for development in graduate 
nurse anesthesia students.

Collins SB, Covrig D, Newman I.

Some fear that the added demands of the Affordable Care Act may worsen already 
high attrition rates among nurses. One potential solution is that graduate 
nursing programs must do a better job of selecting and retaining those who can 
persist in training to gain the clinical and leadership skills necessary to fill 
these new roles. Some believe emotional intelligence (EI) may help with the 
selection and retention of graduate nursing students. This study examined EI in 
216 nurse anesthesia (NA) students. Q-factor analysis was used to create EI 
profiles of first-semester, 1-year, and last-semester NA students. It showed one 
EI type was consistent at each point in the program: High Facial Reader/Low EI 
Manager.

Copyright 2014, SLACK Incorporated.

DOI: 10.3928/01484834-20140821-13
PMID: 25199106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1216. Med Educ. 2014 Oct;48(10):988-97. doi: 10.1111/medu.12526.

Validating relationships among attachment, emotional intelligence and clinical 
communication.

Cherry MG(1), Fletcher I, O'Sullivan H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Psychology, University of Liverpool, Liverpool, UK.

CONTEXT: In a previous study, we found that emotional intelligence (EI) mediates 
the negative influences of Year 1 medical students' attachment styles on their 
provider-patient communication (PPC). However, in that study, students were 
examined on a relatively straightforward PPC skill set and were not assessed on 
their abilities to elicit relevant clinical information from standardised 
patients. The influence of these psychological variables in more demanding and 
realistic clinical scenarios warrants investigation.
OBJECTIVES: This study aimed to validate previous research findings by exploring 
the mediating effect of EI on the relationship between medical students' 
attachment styles and their PPC across an ecologically valid PPC objective 
structured clinical examination (OSCE).
METHODS: Year 2 medical students completed measures of attachment (the 
Experiences in Close Relationships-Short Form [ECR-SF], a 12-item measure which 
provides attachment avoidance and attachment anxiety dimensional scores) and EI 
(the Mayer-Salovey-Caruso Emotional Intelligence Test [MSCEIT], a 141-item 
measure on the perception, use, understanding and management of emotions), prior 
to their summative PPC OSCE. Provider-patient communication was assessed using 
OSCE scores. Structural equation modelling (SEM) was used to validate our 
earlier model of the relationships between attachment style, EI and PPC.
RESULTS: A total of 296 of 382 (77.5%) students participated. Attachment 
avoidance was significantly negatively correlated with total EI scores 
(r = -0.23, p < 0.01); total EI was significantly positively correlated with 
OSCE scores (r = 0.32, p < 0.01). Parsimonious SEM confirmed that EI mediated 
the negative influence of attachment avoidance on OSCE scores. It significantly 
predicted 14% of the variance in OSCE scores, twice as much as the 7% observed 
in the previous study.
CONCLUSIONS: In more demanding and realistic clinical scenarios, EI makes a 
greater contribution towards effective PPC. Attachment is perceived to be stable 
from early adulthood, whereas EI can be developed using targeted educational 
interventions. The validation of this theoretical model of PPC in Year 2 medical 
students strengthens the potential educational implications of EI.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/medu.12526
PMID: 25200019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1217. J Mech Phys Solids. 2014 Dec 1;72:75-92. doi: 10.1016/j.jmps.2014.07.010.

The role of mechanics during brain development.

Budday S(1), Steinmann P(1), Kuhl E(2).

Author information:
(1)Chair of Applied Mechanics, Department of Mechanical Engineering, University 
of Erlangen / Nuremberg, 91058 Erlangen, Germany.
(2)Departments of Mechanical Engineering, Bioengineering, and Cardiothoracic 
Surgery, Stanford University, 496 Lomita Mall, Stanford, CA 94305, USA.

Convolutions are a classical hallmark of most mammalian brains. Brain surface 
morphology is often associated with intelligence and closely correlated to 
neurological dysfunction. Yet, we know surprisingly little about the underlying 
mechanisms of cortical folding. Here we identify the role of the key anatomic 
players during the folding process: cortical thickness, stiffness, and growth. 
To establish estimates for the critical time, pressure, and the wavelength at 
the onset of folding, we derive an analytical model using the Föppl-von-Kármán 
theory. Analytical modeling provides a quick first insight into the critical 
conditions at the onset of folding, yet it fails to predict the evolution of 
complex instability patterns in the post-critical regime. To predict realistic 
surface morphologies, we establish a computational model using the continuum 
theory of finite growth. Computational modeling not only confirms our analytical 
estimates, but is also capable of predicting the formation of complex surface 
morphologies with asymmetric patterns and secondary folds. Taken together, our 
analytical and computational models explain why larger mammalian brains tend to 
be more convoluted than smaller brains. Both models provide mechanistic 
interpretations of the classical malformations of lissencephaly and 
polymicrogyria. Understanding the process of cortical folding in the mammalian 
brain has direct implications on the diagnostics of neurological disorders 
including severe retardation, epilepsy, schizophrenia, and autism.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmps.2014.07.010
PMCID: PMC4156279
PMID: 25202162


1218. Front Neurosci. 2014 Aug 22;8:265. doi: 10.3389/fnins.2014.00265. eCollection 
2014.

Superior pattern processing is the essence of the evolved human brain.

Mattson MP(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Neurosciences, National Institute on Aging Intramural Research 
Program Baltimore, MD, USA ; Department of Neuroscience, Johns Hopkins 
University School of Medicine Baltimore, MD, USA.

Humans have long pondered the nature of their mind/brain and, particularly why 
its capacities for reasoning, communication and abstract thought are far 
superior to other species, including closely related anthropoids. This article 
considers superior pattern processing (SPP) as the fundamental basis of most, if 
not all, unique features of the human brain including intelligence, language, 
imagination, invention, and the belief in imaginary entities such as ghosts and 
gods. SPP involves the electrochemical, neuronal network-based, encoding, 
integration, and transfer to other individuals of perceived or 
mentally-fabricated patterns. During human evolution, pattern processing 
capabilities became increasingly sophisticated as the result of expansion of the 
cerebral cortex, particularly the prefrontal cortex and regions involved in 
processing of images. Specific patterns, real or imagined, are reinforced by 
emotional experiences, indoctrination and even psychedelic drugs. Impaired or 
dysregulated SPP is fundamental to cognitive and psychiatric disorders. A 
broader understanding of SPP mechanisms, and their roles in normal and abnormal 
function of the human brain, may enable the development of interventions that 
reduce irrational decisions and destructive behaviors.

DOI: 10.3389/fnins.2014.00265
PMCID: PMC4141622
PMID: 25202234


1219. Neural Regen Res. 2014 Mar 15;9(6):637-45. doi: 10.4103/1673-5374.130085.

Effect of dexamethasone on intelligence and hearing in preterm infants: a 
meta-analysis.

Zhang R(1), Bo T(1), Shen L(1), Luo S(1), Li J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Second Xiangya Hospital, Central South University, 
Changsha, Hunan Province, China.

OBJECTIVE: A meta-analysis of published randomized controlled trials 
investigating the long-term effect of dexamethasone on the nervous system of 
preterm infants.
DATA SOURCES: Online literature retrieval was conducted using The Cochrane 
Library (from January 1993 to June 2013), EMBASE (from January 1980 to June 
2013), MEDLINE (from January 1963 to June 2013), OVID (from January 1993 to June 
2013), Springer (from January 1994 to June 2013) and Chinese Academic Journal 
Full-text Database (from January 1994 to June 2013). Key words were preterm 
infants and dexamethasone in English and Chinese.
STUDY SELECTION: Selected studies were randomized controlled trials assessing 
the effect of intravenous dexamethasone in preterm infants. The quality of the 
included papers was evaluated and those without the development of the nervous 
system and animal experiments were excluded. Quality assessment was performed 
through bias risk evaluation in accordance with Cochrane Handbook 5.1.0 software 
in the Cochrane Collaboration. The homogeneous studies were analyzed and 
compared using Revman 5.2.6 software, and then effect model was selected and 
analyzed. Those papers failed to be included in the meta-analysis were subjected 
to descriptive analysis.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Nervous system injury in preterm infants.
RESULTS: Ten randomized controlled trials were screened, involving 1,038 
subjects. Among them 512 cases received dexamethasone treatment while 526 cases 
served as placebo control group and blank control group. Meta-analysis results 
showed that the incidence of cerebral palsy, visual impairment and hearing loss 
in preterm infants after dexamethasone treatment within 7 days after birth was 
similar to that in the control group (RR = 1.47, 95%CI: 0.97-2.21; RR = 1.46, 
95%CI: 0.97-2.20; RR = 0.80, 95%CI: 0.54-1.18; P > 0.05), but intelligence 
quotient was significantly decreased compared with the control group (MD = 
-3.55, 95%CI: -6.59 to -0.51; P = 0.02). Preterm infants treated with 
dexamethasone 7 days after birth demonstrated an incidence of cerebral palsy and 
visual impairment, and changes in intelligence quotient similar to those in the 
control group (RR = 1.26, 95%CI: 0.89-1.79; RR = 1.37, 95%CI: 0.73-2.59; RR = 
0.53, 95%CI: 0.32-0.89; RR = 1.66, 95%CI: -4.7 to 8.01; P > 0.05). However, the 
incidence of hearing loss was significantly increased compared with that in the 
control group (RR = 0.53, 95%CI: 0.32-0.89; P = 0.02).
CONCLUSION: Dexamethasone may affect the intelligence of preterm infants in the 
early stages after birth, but may lead to hearing impairment at later stages 
after birth. More reliable conclusions should be made through large-size, 
multi-center, well-designed randomized controlled trials.

DOI: 10.4103/1673-5374.130085
PMCID: PMC4146231
PMID: 25206867

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest: None declared.


1220. Pediatr Cardiol. 2015 Feb;36(2):350-7. doi: 10.1007/s00246-014-1013-4. Epub 2014 
Sep 11.

Neurocognitive outcomes at kindergarten entry after surgical repair of total 
anomalous pulmonary venous connection in early infancy.

Duff JP(1), Joffe AR, Vatanpour S, Moddemann DM, Robertson CM, Alton G, Dinu I, 
Ross D, Rebeyka IM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB, Canada, 
jduff@ualberta.ca.

The objective of this study was to determine neurocognitive outcomes 4.5 years 
after surgery for TAPVC in infancy and predictors of these outcomes. A cohort 
having TAPVC repair at age ≤6 weeks between 1998 and 2007 were followed by the 
Complex Pediatric Therapies Follow-up Program at 4.5 years. Outcomes include 
mortality, full-scale intelligence quotient (FSIQ), verbal IQ (VIQ), performance 
IQ (PIQ), visual motor integration (VMI), and general adaptive composite of the 
Adaptive Behavior Assessment System (GAC). There were 51 infants with simple 
TAPVC [4 year mortality 4 (8%)], and 16 with complex TAPVC [4 year mortality 7 
(44%)], hazard ratio (HR) 7.02 (95% CI 2.05-24.07, p = 0.002). Of the 47 
survivors after simple TAPVC, FSIQ (SD) was 92 (17), VIQ 92 (17), PIQ 94 (15), 
VMI 92 (15), and GAC 92 (15). Independent predictors of neurocognitive outcome 
included father's socioeconomic status, mother's years of schooling, gender, 
post-operative base deficit, and deep hypothermic circulatory arrest (DHCA) 
time. Complex TAPVC was associated on univariate analysis only with PIQ [81.9 
(10.2) vs. 93.6 (15.4); p = 0.012] and FSIQ [80.7 (10.1) vs. 92.0 (17.7); p = 
0.017]. Original peoples accounted for 25/51 (49%) of simple and 3/16 (19%) of 
complex TAPVC. Original peoples race was associated with 4-year mortality [HR 
6.85 (95% CI 2.15, 21.76, p = 0.001)]. Survivors of TAPVC repair in early 
infancy have encouraging neurocognitive outcomes. Few independent predictors of 
neurocognitive outcome were found, with post-operative acidosis and DHCA time 
being potentially modifiable. Original peoples account for an unexpected 
proportion of patients (42%) and have a higher mortality.

DOI: 10.1007/s00246-014-1013-4
PMID: 25208496 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1221. Epilepsia. 2014 Aug;55 Suppl 3:29-33. doi: 10.1111/epi.12722.

Transition into adulthood: tuberous sclerosis complex, Sturge-Weber syndrome, 
and Rasmussen encephalitis.

Thiele EA(1), Granata T, Matricardi S, Chugani HT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts, U.S.A.

Children with tuberous sclerosis complex, Sturge-Weber syndrome, and Rasmussen 
encephalitis all have complex but differing needs in the process of 
transition/transfer to adult care. All three may be associated with long-term 
normal intelligence or a varying degree of intellectual disability. In tuberous 
sclerosis complex, the emphasis of care in adulthood shifts from seizure control 
and developmental issues to renal and psychiatric disease and other issues. In 
Sturge-Weber syndrome, the emphasis shifts from seizure control and 
rehabilitation to management of disability and migraine. In Rasmussen 
encephalitis, transition may be particularly complex for those with adolescent 
onset. Those successfully operated on for childhood onset have a static problem 
and the potential to do well in life.

Wiley Periodicals, Inc. © 2014 International League Against Epilepsy.

DOI: 10.1111/epi.12722
PMID: 25209083 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1222. Radiat Oncol. 2014 Sep 11;9:201. doi: 10.1186/1748-717X-9-201.

Treatment outcomes and late toxicities in patients with embryonal central 
nervous system tumors.

Odagiri K(1), Omura M, Hata M, Aida N, Niwa T, Goto H, Ito S, Adachi M, Yoshida 
H, Yuki H, Inoue T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Yokohama Municipal Citizen's Hospital, 56 
Okazawa-cho, Hodogaya-ku, Yokohama, Kanagawa, Japan. k7804140@yokohama-cu.ac.jp.

BACKGROUND: Standard treatment strategies for embryonal central nervous system 
(CNS) tumors have not yet been established. We treated these tumors using an 
original chemoradiation therapy protocol; the clinical outcomes and toxicities 
were retrospectively evaluated.
METHODS: Twenty-four patients were enrolled including sixteen with 
medulloblastoma, four with supratentorial primitive neuroectodermal tumor 
(sPNET), three with atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumor, and one with 
pineoblastoma. Immediately after diagnosis, all patients underwent surgery 
initially. They were then categorized as high- or average-risk groups 
independent of tumor type/pathogenesis. The average-risk group included patients 
who were aged ≥3 years at diagnosis, had non-metastatic disease at diagnosis 
(M0), and had undergone gross total resection. Other patients were categorized 
as the high-risk group; this group received more intensive treatment than the 
average-risk group, including high-dose chemotherapy with autologous stem-cell 
transplantation. All patients received craniospinal irradiation (CSI). The CSI 
dose was 23.4 Gy for M0 patients aged ≥5 years, 18 Gy for M0 patients aged <5 
years, and 30-36 Gy for all patients with M + disease. The total dose to the 
primary tumor bed was 54 Gy.
RESULTS: The median follow-up time was 73.5 (range, 19-118) months. The 5-year 
progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) rates were 71.1 and 
88.9%, respectively in the average-risk group (n = 9) and 66.7 and 71.1%, 
respectively in the high-risk group (n = 15). The PFS and OS rates were not 
significantly different between the average- and high-risk groups. In patients 
with medulloblastoma only, these rates were also not significantly different 
between the average- and high-risk groups. Three of four patients with sPNET 
were disease free. The height standard deviation score (SDS) was significantly 
decreased at the last assessment relative to that at diagnosis (P < 0.0001). The 
latest median height SDS was -1.6 (range, 0.9 to -4.8), and the latest median 
full-scale intelligence quotient (FSIQ) score was 86 (range, 59-128). The CSI 
doses and age at the start of radiation therapy did not influence clinical 
outcomes, height SDSs, and FSIQ scores.
CONCLUSIONS: Our original protocol for patients with embryonal CNS tumors was 
feasible and yielded favorable clinical outcomes.

DOI: 10.1186/1748-717X-9-201
PMCID: PMC4261562
PMID: 25209395 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1223. Eur Arch Psychiatry Clin Neurosci. 2015 Dec;265(8):689-99. doi: 
10.1007/s00406-014-0531-7. Epub 2014 Sep 11.

Gently restless: association of ADHD-like traits with response inhibition and 
interference control.

Polner B(1)(2), Aichert D(3), Macare C(4), Costa A(3), Ettinger U(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Bonn, Kaiser-Karl-Ring 9, 53111, 
Bonn, Germany.
(2)Department of Cognitive Science, Budapest University of Technology and 
Economics, Budapest, Hungary.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, University of Munich, Munich, Germany.
(4)Institute of Psychiatry, King's College London, London, UK.
(5)Department of Psychology, University of Bonn, Kaiser-Karl-Ring 9, 53111, 
Bonn, Germany. ulrich.ettinger@uni-bonn.de.

Impairment of inhibition-related functions is one of the most pronounced 
cognitive deficits found in attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). 
Compelling evidence from studies of unaffected relatives of patients with ADHD 
and of ADHD-like traits in healthy subjects suggest the continuous distribution 
of ADHD symptoms in the population. A more subtle inhibitory deficit can also be 
found in healthy relatives of patients and in subjects with high ADHD-like 
traits. Here, we examined the relationship between inhibitory performance and 
ADHD-like traits, for the first time, in a large sample of healthy adults by 
applying multiple, widely used tests of inhibition-related functions. ADHD-like 
traits, in general, were independently predicted by Stroop interference score 
and, at trend level, by go/no-go commission error rate while controlling for 
socio-demographic factors, verbal intelligence and neuroticism. Additionally, 
higher inattentive traits were related to worse Stroop performance at trend 
level, and higher hyperactive/impulsive traits were significantly associated 
with more go/no-go commission errors. ADHD-like traits were strongly related to 
neuroticism. The study shows that individual differences in ADHD-like traits are 
related to variance in fundamental inhibition-related functions over and above 
effects of negative affect regulation, but the relationships tend to be small. 
The results suggest the quasi-dimensionality of ADHD and raise further questions 
about the relationship between genetic factors and the deficit of 
inhibition-related functions in the ADHD spectrum.

DOI: 10.1007/s00406-014-0531-7
PMID: 25209569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1224. Int J Lang Commun Disord. 2014 Nov;49(6):736-47. doi: 10.1111/1460-6984.12107. 
Epub 2014 Sep 11.

Specific language impairment in language-minority children from low-income 
families.

Engel de Abreu PM(1), Cruz-Santos A, Puglisi ML.

Author information:
(1)Education, Culture, Cognition and Society (ECCS) Research Unit, University of 
Luxembourg, Walferdange, Luxembourg.

BACKGROUND: Recent evidence suggests that specific language impairment (SLI) 
might be secondary to general cognitive processing limitations in the domain of 
executive functioning. Previous research has focused almost exclusively on 
monolingual children with SLI and offers little evidence-based guidance on 
executive functioning in bilingual children with SLI. Studying bilinguals with 
SLI is important, especially in the light of increasing evidence that 
bilingualism can bring advantages in certain domains of executive functioning.
AIMS: To determine whether executive functioning represents an area of 
difficulty for bilingual language-minority children with SLI and, if so, which 
specific executive processes are affected.
METHODS & PROCEDURES: This cross-cultural research was conducted with bilingual 
children from Luxembourg and monolingual children from Portugal who all had 
Portuguese as their first language. The data from 81 eight-year-olds from the 
following three groups were analysed: (1) 15 Portuguese-Luxembourgish bilinguals 
from Luxembourg with an SLI diagnosis; (2) 33 typically developing 
Portuguese-Luxembourgish bilinguals from Luxembourg; and (3) 33 typically 
developing Portuguese-speaking monolinguals from Portugal. Groups were matched 
on first language, ethnicity, chronological age and socioeconomic status, and 
they did not differ in nonverbal intelligence. Children completed a battery of 
tests tapping: expressive and receptive vocabulary, syntactic comprehension, 
verbal and visuospatial working memory, selective attention and interference 
suppression.
OUTCOMES & RESULTS: The bilingual SLI group performed equally well compared with 
their typically developing peers on measures of visuospatial working memory, but 
had lower scores than both control groups on tasks of verbal working memory. On 
measures of selective attention and interference suppression, typically 
developing children who were bilingual outperformed their monolingual 
counterparts. For selective attention, performance of the bilingual SLI group 
did not differ significantly from the controls. For interference suppression the 
bilingual SLI group performed significantly less well than typically developing 
bilinguals but not monolinguals.
CONCLUSIONS & IMPLICATIONS: This research provides further support to the 
position that SLI is not a language-specific disorder. The study indicates that 
although bilingual children with SLI do not demonstrate the same advantages in 
selective attention and interference suppression as typically developing 
bilinguals, they do not lag behind typically developing monolinguals in these 
domains of executive functioning. This finding raises the possibility that 
bilingualism might represent a protective factor against some of the cognitive 
limitations that are associated with SLI in monolinguals.

© 2014 The Authors International Journal of Language & Communication Disorders 
published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Royal College of Speech and 
Language Therapists.

DOI: 10.1111/1460-6984.12107
PMID: 25209889 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1225. Circ Cardiovasc Genet. 2014 Dec;7(6):760-70. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCGENETICS.113.000384. Epub 2014 Sep 10.

Identification of genetic markers for treatment success in heart failure 
patients: insight from cardiac resynchronization therapy.

Schmitz B(1), De Maria R(2), Gatsios D(2), Chrysanthakopoulou T(2), Landolina 
M(2), Gasparini M(2), Campolo J(2), Parolini M(2), Sanzo A(2), Galimberti P(2), 
Bianchi M(2), Lenders M(2), Brand E(2), Parodi O(2), Lunati M(2), Brand SM(2).

Author information:
(1)From the Institute of Sports Medicine, Molecular Genetics of Cardiovascular 
Disease (B.S., S.-M.B.) and Internal Medicine D, Department of Nephrology, 
Hypertension and Rheumatology (B.S., M. Lenders, E.B.), University Hospital 
Münster, Münster, Germany; Cardiothoracic and Vascular Department, CNR Institute 
of Clinical Physiology, Niguarda Ca' Granda Hospital, Milan, Italy (R.D.M., 
J.C., M.P., O.P.); University of Ioannina, Department of Biomedical Research, 
Ioannina University Campus (D.G.); Neuron Energy Solutions G.P., Science & 
Technology Park of Epirus, Ioannina, Greece (T.C.); Department of Cardiology, 
Fondazione IRCCS Policlinico San Matteo, Pavia (M. Landolina, A.S.); Department 
of Cardiology, Humanitas Research Hospital IRCCS, Rozzano-Milan (M.G., P.G.); 
and Cardiothoracic and Vascular Department, Niguarda Ca' Granda Hospital, Milan, 
Italy (M.B., M. Lunati). Boris.Schmitz@UKmuenster.de.
(2)From the Institute of Sports Medicine, Molecular Genetics of Cardiovascular 
Disease (B.S., S.-M.B.) and Internal Medicine D, Department of Nephrology, 
Hypertension and Rheumatology (B.S., M. Lenders, E.B.), University Hospital 
Münster, Münster, Germany; Cardiothoracic and Vascular Department, CNR Institute 
of Clinical Physiology, Niguarda Ca' Granda Hospital, Milan, Italy (R.D.M., 
J.C., M.P., O.P.); University of Ioannina, Department of Biomedical Research, 
Ioannina University Campus (D.G.); Neuron Energy Solutions G.P., Science & 
Technology Park of Epirus, Ioannina, Greece (T.C.); Department of Cardiology, 
Fondazione IRCCS Policlinico San Matteo, Pavia (M. Landolina, A.S.); Department 
of Cardiology, Humanitas Research Hospital IRCCS, Rozzano-Milan (M.G., P.G.); 
and Cardiothoracic and Vascular Department, Niguarda Ca' Granda Hospital, Milan, 
Italy (M.B., M. Lunati).

BACKGROUND: Cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) can improve ventricular 
size, shape, and mass and reduce mitral regurgitation by reverse remodeling of 
the failing ventricle. About 30% of patients do not respond to this therapy for 
unknown reasons. In this study, we aimed at the identification and 
classification of CRT responder by the use of genetic variants and clinical 
parameters.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Of 1421 CRT patients, 207 subjects were consecutively 
selected, and CRT responder and nonresponder were matched for their baseline 
parameters before CRT. Treatment success of CRT was defined as a decrease in 
left ventricular end-systolic volume >15% at follow-up echocardiography compared 
with left ventricular end-systolic volume at baseline. All other changes 
classified the patient as CRT nonresponder. A genetic association study was 
performed, which identified 4 genetic variants to be associated with the CRT 
responder phenotype at the allelic (P<0.035) and genotypic (P<0.031) level: 
rs3766031 (ATPIB1), rs5443 (GNB3), rs5522 (NR3C2), and rs7325635 (TNFSF11). 
Machine learning algorithms were used for the classification of CRT patients 
into responder and nonresponder status, including combinations of the identified 
genetic variants and clinical parameters.
CONCLUSIONS: We demonstrated that rule induction algorithms can successfully be 
applied for the classification of heart failure patients in CRT responder and 
nonresponder status using clinical and genetic parameters. Our analysis included 
information on alleles and genotypes of 4 genetic loci, rs3766031 (ATPIB1), 
rs5443 (GNB3), rs5522 (NR3C2), and rs7325635 (TNFSF11), pathophysiologically 
associated with remodeling of the failing ventricle.

© 2014 American Heart Association, Inc.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCGENETICS.113.000384
PMID: 25210049 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1226. Korean J Pediatr. 2014 Aug;57(8):363-9. doi: 10.3345/kjp.2014.57.8.363. Epub 
2014 Aug 25.

Developmental profiles of preschool children with delayed language development.

Eun JJ(1), Lee HJ(1), Kim JK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Catholic University of Daegu School of Medicine, 
Daegu, Korea.

Erratum in
    Korean J Pediatr. 2016 Sep;59(9):386.

PURPOSE: This study examines changes in developmental profiles of children with 
language delay over time and the clinical significance of assessment conducted 
at age 2-3 years.
METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed the medical records of 70 children (62 
male, 8 female), who had visited the hospital because of delayed language 
development at 2-3 years, and were reassessed at ages 5-6. Language and 
cognitive abilities were assessed using multiple scales at the initial and 
follow-up visits.
RESULTS: At the initial test, 62 of the 70 children had mental development index 
(MDI) below 70 of Bayley Scales of Infant Development Test II. Of the 62 
children in the follow-up assessment, 30 children (48.4%) remained within the 
same cognitive range (full-scale intelligence quotient, FSIQ<70 of Wechsler 
preschool and primary scale of intelligence), 12 had borderline intellectual 
functioning (FSIQ, 70-85), 6 improved to average intellectual functioning 
(FSIQ>85), and 5 had specific language impairment, 9 had autism spectrum 
disorders. At the initial test, 38 of the 70 children had cognitive 
developmental quotients (C-DQ) below 70. Of the 38 children in the follow-up 
assessment, 23 children (60.5%) remained within the same cognitive range 
(FSIQ<70). The correlation coefficient for MDI and FSIQ was 0.530 (P<0.0001) and 
that for C-DQ and FSIQ was 0.727 (P<0.0001). There was a strong correlation 
between C-DQ and FSIQ, and a moderate correlation between MDI and FSIQ.
CONCLUSION: Low MDI scores reflect a specific delay in cognitive abilities, 
communication skills, or both. The C-DQ, receptive language development 
quotient, and social maturity quotient also help to distinguish between children 
with isolated language delay and children with cooccurring cognitive impairment. 
Moreover, changes in the developmental profile during preschool years are not 
unusual in children with language delay. Follow-up reassessments prior to the 
start of school are required for a more accurate diagnosis and intervention.

DOI: 10.3345/kjp.2014.57.8.363
PMCID: PMC4155181
PMID: 25210524

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest relevant to 
this article was reported.


1227. Eur Arch Psychiatry Clin Neurosci. 2015 Sep;265(6):449-59. doi: 
10.1007/s00406-014-0533-5. Epub 2014 Sep 12.

Interleukin-6: the missing element of the neurocognitive deterioration in 
schizophrenia? The focus on genetic underpinnings, cognitive impairment and 
clinical manifestation.

Frydecka D(1), Misiak B, Pawlak-Adamska E, Karabon L, Tomkiewicz A, Sedlaczek P, 
Kiejna A, Beszłej JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Wroclaw Medical University, 10 Pasteur Street, 
50-367, Wrocław, Poland, dfrydecka@gmail.com.

The influence of the immune system deregulation on the risk of schizophrenia is 
increasingly recognized. The aim of this study was to assess the influence of 
serum interleukin-6 (IL-6) level together with the polymorphism in its gene (IL6 
-174G/C) and high sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP) levels on clinical 
manifestation and cognition in schizophrenia patients. We recruited 151 patients 
with schizophrenia and 194 healthy control subjects. Psychopathology was 
evaluated using Operational Criteria for Psychotic Illness checklist, Positive 
and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) and Scales for Assessment of Positive and 
Negative Symptoms. Cognitive performance in schizophrenia patients was assessed 
using following tests: Rey Auditory Verbal Learning Test, Trail Making Test, 
Verbal Fluency Tests, Stroop and subscales from Wechsler Adults Intelligence 
Scale-R-Pl (Similarities, Digit Symbol Coding, Digit Span Forward and Backward). 
Serum IL-6 and hsCRP levels were significantly higher in schizophrenia patients 
in comparison with healthy controls. Both hsCRP and IL-6 levels were associated 
with insidious psychosis onset, duration of illness and chronic schizophrenia 
course with deterioration. After adjustment for age, education level, number of 
years of completed education, illness duration, total PANSS score, depression 
severity and chlorpromazine equivalent, there was still a positive association 
between IL-6 and hsCRP levels and worse cognitive performance. The IL6 -174G/C 
polymorphism did not influence IL-6 level, but it was associated with the 
severity of positive symptoms. Our results suggest that elevated IL-6 levels may 
play the role in cognitive impairment and serve as potential inflammatory 
biomarker of deterioration in schizophrenia.

DOI: 10.1007/s00406-014-0533-5
PMCID: PMC4540774
PMID: 25214388 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1228. J Int Oral Health. 2014 Jul;6(4):56-62.

Interrelationship of intelligence quotient with caries and gingivitis.

Navit S(1), Malhotra G(2), Singh J(3), Naresh V(4), Anshul(5), Navit P(6).

Author information:
(1)Professor, Department of Pedodontics and Preventive Dentistry, Saraswati 
Dental College, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, India.
(2)Private Practitioners, New Delhi, India.
(3)Professor and Head, Department of Pedodontics and Preventive Dentistry, 
Maharana Pratap Dental College, Gwalior, Madhya Pradesh, India.
(4)Consultant Orthodontist, Sai Dentinova Dental Clinic, Khammam, Andhra 
Pradesh, India.
(5)Professor, Department of Pedodontics and Preventive Dentistry, Institute of 
Dental Surgery, Barelly, Uttar Pradesh, India.
(6)Senior Lecturar, Department of Orthodontics, Chandra Dental College, Lucknow, 
Uttar Pradesh, India.

BACKGROUND: Intelligence is the property of mind that encompasses many related 
abilities, such as the capacities to reason, plan, solve the problem, think, 
comprehend ideas, use languages and to learn. Intellectual level of a person 
influence the abilities to learn from experience, adapt to new situations, 
understand and handle abstract concepts, and use knowledge to manipulate one's 
environment. This abstract thinking helps the child to maintain his/her oral 
hygiene in a better way.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The present study was carried out on 252 children of 
10-15 years old, reported to the out-patient Department of Pedodontics and 
Preventive Dentistry; of Teerthanker Mahaveer Dental College and Research 
Centre; Moradabad, in order to assess the relation between IQ of a child with 
dental caries and gingival disease. The statistical analysis was performed using 
Statistical Package for Social Sciences Version 15.0 statistical analysis 
software.
RESULTS: Statistically, there was a significant difference among different 
intelligence groups and the prevalence of moderate gingivitis (P < 0.001). 
Prevalence of caries was maximum among those with borderline intelligence 
(90.9%), and no significant association between level of intelligence and caries 
prevalence was observed (P = 0.572).
CONCLUSION: There was a statistical significant relation between IQ and 
prevalence of moderate gingivitis and no significant relationship was observed 
between IQ and dental caries.

PMCID: PMC4148575
PMID: 25214734

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None


1229. J Womens Health (Larchmt). 2014 Oct;23(10):830-3. doi: 10.1089/jwh.2014.4792. 
Epub 2014 Sep 12.

Beauty, brains or health: trends in ovum recipient preferences.

Flores H(1), Lee J, Rodriguez-Purata J, Witkin G, Sandler B, Copperman AB.

Author information:
(1)1 Reproductive Medicine Associates of New York , New York, New York.

BACKGROUND: What do ovum donation (OD) recipients request most from their ideal 
donor: beauty, brains, health or physical self-resemblance? Previous data have 
shown recipients primarily requested "similar appearance or gene pool." We 
consider the possibility that these criteria may have changed due to a positive 
social shift towards OD participation and have evaluated recipients' requests 
for donor criteria over a span of 5 years.
METHODS: Donor trait preferences of OD recipients (n=438) enrolled in a private, 
academic OD program from 2008-2012 were assessed in this retrospective cohort 
analysis. Requests were categorized by appearance, ethnicity, intellect, 
ability, and mental health. Statistical analyses were conducted by 
Cochran-Armitage trend tests with significance at p<0.05.
RESULTS: The percentage of requests for "health" increased steadily from 2008 
(50%) to 2012 (72%) (p<0.05). The percentage of requests for "intelligence" were 
highest in 2012 (55%), increasing from 2008 (18%) (p<0.05). Requests for 
"athletic ability" rose from 2008 (1%) to 2012 (17%) (p<0.05). Recipients 
requested a "similar gene pool" most in 2009 (40%) and least in 2012 (25%), 
though this trend did not reach statistical significance.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study demonstrates an increase in the percentage of OD 
recipients' requests for health, athleticism, and intelligence over our 5-year 
analysis. It appears that the current recipient is more likely to request a 
donor with practical traits that would serve their offspring overall quality of 
life rather than self-reflective traits such as physical resemblance or their 
genetic composition. We believe that improved awareness and acceptance of OD as 
a treatment of infertility will continue to inform practical considerations and 
approaches toward donor recruitment and the donor-recipient matching process.

DOI: 10.1089/jwh.2014.4792
PMID: 25215448 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1230. J Pediatr. 2014 Nov;165(5):1017-23.e1. doi: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2014.07.058. Epub 
2014 Sep 10.

Physical growth and nonverbal intelligence: associations in Zambia.

Hein S(1), Reich J(2), Thuma PE(3), Grigorenko EL(4).

Author information:
(1)Child Study Center, Yale University, New Haven, CT.
(2)Child Study Center, Yale University, New Haven, CT; Department of 
Communication Sciences and Disorders, Temple University, Philadelphia, PA.
(3)Macha Research Trust, Macha, Zambia.
(4)Child Study Center, Yale University, New Haven, CT; Moscow State University 
for Psychology and Education, Moscow, Russia. Electronic address: 
Elena.Grigorenko@yale.edu.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate normative developmental body mass index (BMI) 
trajectories and associations of physical growth indicators--height, weight, 
head circumference (HC), and BMI--with nonverbal intelligence in an understudied 
population of children from sub-Saharan Africa.
STUDY DESIGN: A sample of 3981 students (50.8% male), grades 3-7, with a mean 
age of 12.75 years was recruited from 34 rural Zambian schools. Children with 
low scores on vision and hearing screenings were excluded. Height, weight, and 
HC were measured, and nonverbal intelligence was assessed using the Universal 
Nonverbal Intelligence Test, Symbolic Memory subtest and Kaufman Assessment 
Battery for Children, Second Edition, Triangles subtest.
RESULTS: Students in higher grades had a higher BMI over and above the effect of 
age. Girls had a marginally higher BMI, although that for both boys and girls 
was approximately 1 SD below the international Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention and World Health Organization norms. When controlling for the effect 
of age, nonverbal intelligence showed small but significant positive 
relationships with HC (r = 0.17) and BMI (r = 0.11). HC and BMI accounted for 
1.9% of the variance in nonverbal intelligence, over and above the contribution 
of grade and sex.
CONCLUSION: BMI-for-age growth curves of Zambian children follow observed 
worldwide developmental trajectories. The positive relationships between BMI and 
intelligence underscore the importance of providing adequate nutritional and 
physical growth opportunities for children worldwide and in sub-Saharan Africa 
in particular. Directions for future studies are discussed with regard to 
maximizing the cognitive potential of all rural African children.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2014.07.058
PMCID: PMC4252808
PMID: 25217196 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


1231. J Pediatr. 2014 Nov;165(5):921-7.e1. doi: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2014.07.045. Epub 2014 
Sep 10.

Brain morphometry and cognition in young adults born small for gestational age 
at term.

Østgård HF(1), Løhaugen GC(2), Bjuland KJ(1), Rimol LM(1), Brubakk AM(3), 
Martinussen M(4), Vik T(1), Håberg AK(5), Skranes J(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Children's and Women's Health, Norwegian 
University of Science and Technology, Trondheim, Norway.
(2)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Children's and Women's Health, Norwegian 
University of Science and Technology, Trondheim, Norway; Department of 
Pediatrics, Sørlandet Hospital, Arendal, Norway.
(3)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Children's and Women's Health, Norwegian 
University of Science and Technology, Trondheim, Norway; Department of 
Pediatrics, St. Olav University Hospital, Trondheim, Norway.
(4)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Children's and Women's Health, Norwegian 
University of Science and Technology, Trondheim, Norway; Department of 
Obstetrics, St. Olav University Hospital, Trondheim, Norway.
(5)Department of Neuroscience, Norwegian University of Science and Technology, 
Trondheim, Norway; Department of Medical Imaging, St. Olav University Hospital, 
Trondheim, Norway.

OBJECTIVES: To examine brain volumes and cortical surface area and thickness and 
to relate these brain measures to cognitive function in young adults born small 
for gestational age (SGA) at term compared with non-SGA control patients.
STUDY DESIGN: This population-based follow-up study at age 20 years included 58 
term-born SGA (birth weight <10th percentile, mean: 2915 g) and 81 non-SGA 
controls (birth weight ≥ 10th percentile, mean: 3707 g). Brain volumes and 
cortical surface area and thickness were investigated with magnetic resonance 
imaging, which was successfully obtained in 47 SGA patients and 61 control 
patients. Cognitive function was assessed using the Wechsler Adult Intelligence 
Scale, 3rd edition. A subgroup analysis was performed in the SGA group among 
subjects diagnosed with fetal growth restriction (FGR) based on repeated fetal 
ultrasound measurements.
RESULTS: The SGA group showed regional reductions in cortical surface area, 
particularly in the frontal, parietal, and temporal lobes. Total brain volume, 
cortical gray matter, cerebral white matter, and putamen volumes were reduced in 
the SGA group compared with control patients, but there were no differences in 
specific subcortical brain structure volumes when correcting for intracranial 
volume. Reductions were most pronounced among SGA subjects with FGR. No 
associations were found between brain measures and IQ measures in either group.
CONCLUSION: Young adults born SGA at term show a global reduction in brain 
volume as well as regional reductions in cortical surface area. We speculate 
whether these reductions may be confined to those exposed to FGR. None of the 
brain measures correlated with cognition.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2014.07.045
PMID: 25217202 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1232. J Am Coll Dent. 2014 Spring;81(2):26-35.

Dental ethics and emotional intelligence.

Rosenblum AB, Wolf S.

Dental ethics is often taught, viewed, and conducted as an intell enterprise, 
uninformed by other noncognitive factors. Emotional intelligence (EQ) is defined 
distinguished from the cognitive intelligence measured by Intelligence Quotient 
(IQ). This essay recommends more inclusion of emotional, noncognitive input to 
the ethical decision process in dental education and dental practice.

PMID: 25219193 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1233. Br J Psychol. 2015 May;106(2):349-66. doi: 10.1111/bjop.12092. Epub 2014 Sep 13.

Musical ability and non-native speech-sound processing are linked through 
sensitivity to pitch and spectral information.

Kempe V(1), Bublitz D, Brooks PJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Psychology, Abertay University, Dundee, UK.

Is the observed link between musical ability and non-native speech-sound 
processing due to enhanced sensitivity to acoustic features underlying both 
musical and linguistic processing? To address this question, native English 
speakers (N = 118) discriminated Norwegian tonal contrasts and Norwegian vowels. 
Short tones differing in temporal, pitch, and spectral characteristics were used 
to measure sensitivity to the various acoustic features implicated in musical 
and speech processing. Musical ability was measured using Gordon's Advanced 
Measures of Musical Audiation. Results showed that sensitivity to specific 
acoustic features played a role in non-native speech-sound processing: 
Controlling for non-verbal intelligence, prior foreign language-learning 
experience, and sex, sensitivity to pitch and spectral information partially 
mediated the link between musical ability and discrimination of non-native 
vowels and lexical tones. The findings suggest that while sensitivity to certain 
acoustic features partially mediates the relationship between musical ability 
and non-native speech-sound processing, complex tests of musical ability also 
tap into other shared mechanisms.

© 2014 The British Psychological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/bjop.12092
PMID: 25220831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1234. Front Psychol. 2014 Aug 27;5:928. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.00928. eCollection 
2014.

High fives motivate: the effects of gestural and ambiguous verbal praise on 
motivation.

Morris BJ(1), Zentall SR(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Educational Psychology, Kent State University Kent, OH, USA.
(2)School of Family and Consumer Sciences, University of Akron Akron, OH, USA.

The type of praise children receive influences whether children choose to 
persist after failure. One mechanism through which praise affects motivation is 
through the causal attributions inferred from language. For example, telling a 
child "You got an A on the test because you're smart," provides an explicit link 
between possessing a trait and an outcome, specifically that intelligence causes 
success. Nonetheless, most praise given to children is ambiguous, or lacks 
explicit attributions (e.g., "yea" or a thumbs up). To investigate the effects 
of ambiguous praise on motivation, we randomly assigned 95 5-6-year-old children 
to a praise condition (verbal trait; verbal effort; verbal ambiguous; or 
gestural) and measured motivation using task persistence, self-evaluations, and 
eye fixations on errors. Ambiguous praise, similar to verbal effort praise, 
produced higher persistence and self-evaluations, and fewer fixations on error 
after failure compared to verbal trait praise. Interestingly, gestures produced 
the highest self-evaluations. Thus, praise without explicit attributions 
motivated as well or better than praise explicitly focused on effort, which may 
suggest that children interpret ambiguous praise in the most beneficial manner.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.00928
PMCID: PMC4145712
PMID: 25221532


1235. Psychol Assess. 2015 Mar;27(1):260-71. doi: 10.1037/pas0000019. Epub 2014 Sep 
15.

Metacognitive planning: development and validation of an online measure.

Li J(1), Zhang B(1), Du H(2), Zhu Z(1), Li YM(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Psychology.
(2)Department of Psychology, University of Notre Dame.

Planning is the critical first stage of metacognition. Although it has long been 
emphasized theoretically, it has not been the subject of much empirical study 
due to the lack of a valid assessment tool. Because planning is a metacognitive 
process, online methods that collect data during task performance would much 
better capture it. The present study was conducted to develop an online measure 
of metacognitive planning. Researchers designed a puzzle task that took the form 
of the popular game Sokoban, and the ratio between planning time and total time 
of each item was chosen as the metacognitive planning index. The task was 
administered to a heterogeneous sample of 440 participants composed of college 
students as well as 5th-, 7th-, and 10th-grade students. The results showed that 
valid inference could be made from the time ratio score. Cronbach's alpha and 
test-retest correlation provided robust evidence of reliability of the time 
ratio score. Confirmatory factor analysis further confirmed its 
unidimensionality. Validity evidence also supported the use of the time ratio 
score. After controlling for demographic variables, intelligence, and 
motivation, the time ratio score still accounted for a significant proportion of 
variance of Sokoban performance, the Tower of London performance, and academic 
achievement. The time ratio score was also found to increase with age. Taken 
together, the results of the study revealed that the time ratio is a 
psychometrically sound online measure of metacognitive planning.

2015 APA, all rights reserved

DOI: 10.1037/pas0000019
PMID: 25222433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1236. J Pers Soc Psychol. 2014 Oct;107(4):597-620. doi: 10.1037/a0037699.

Changing theories of change: strategic shifting in implicit theory endorsement.

Leith SA(1), Ward CL(1), Giacomin M(1), Landau ES(1), Ehrlinger J(2), Wilson 
AE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology.
(2)Department of Psychology, Washington State University.

People differ in their implicit theories about the malleability of 
characteristics such as intelligence and personality. These relatively chronic 
theories can be experimentally altered, and can be affected by parent or teacher 
feedback. Little is known about whether people might selectively shift their 
implicit beliefs in response to salient situational goals. We predicted that, 
when motivated to reach a desired conclusion, people might subtly shift their 
implicit theories of change and stability to garner supporting evidence for 
their desired position. Any motivated context in which a particular lay theory 
would help people to reach a preferred directional conclusion could elicit 
shifts in theory endorsement. We examine a variety of motivated situational 
contexts across 7 studies, finding that people's theories of change shifted in 
line with goals to protect self and liked others and to cast aspersions on 
disliked others. Studies 1-3 demonstrate how people regulate their implicit 
theories to manage self-view by more strongly endorsing an incremental theory 
after threatening performance feedback or memories of failure. Studies 4-6 
revealed that people regulate the implicit theories they hold about favored and 
reviled political candidates, endorsing an incremental theory to forgive 
preferred candidates for past gaffes but leaning toward an entity theory to 
ensure past failings "stick" to opponents. Finally, in Study 7, people who were 
most threatened by a previously convicted child sex offender (i.e., parents 
reading about the offender moving to their neighborhood) gravitated most to the 
entity view that others do not change. Although chronic implicit theories are 
undoubtedly meaningful, this research reveals a previously unexplored source of 
fluidity by highlighting the active role people play in managing their implicit 
theories in response to goals.

2014 APA, all rights reserved

DOI: 10.1037/a0037699
PMID: 25222649 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1237. Psychometrika. 2015 Jun;80(2):317-40. doi: 10.1007/s11336-014-9408-y. Epub 2014 
Sep 16.

A Statistical Test for Differential Item Pair Functioning.

Bechger TM(1), Maris G.

Author information:
(1)Cito, Amsterdamseweg 13, Arnhem, The Netherlands, timo.bechger@cito.nl.

This paper presents an IRT-based statistical test for differential item 
functioning (DIF). The test is developed for items conforming to the Rasch 
(Probabilistic models for some intelligence and attainment tests, The Danish 
Institute of Educational Research, Copenhagen, 1960) model but we will outline 
its extension to more complex IRT models. Its difference from the existing 
procedures is that DIF is defined in terms of the relative difficulties of pairs 
of items and not in terms of the difficulties of individual items. The argument 
is that the difficulty of an item is not identified from the observations, 
whereas the relative difficulties are. This leads to a test that is closely 
related to Lord's (Applications of item response theory to practical testing 
problems, Erlbaum, Hillsdale, 1980) test for item DIF albeit with a different 
and more correct interpretation. Illustrations with real and simulated data are 
provided.

DOI: 10.1007/s11336-014-9408-y
PMID: 25223228 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1238. Eur Neuropsychopharmacol. 2014 Nov;24(11):1793-7. doi: 
10.1016/j.euroneuro.2014.07.016. Epub 2014 Aug 7.

Borderline intellectual functioning is associated with poor social functioning, 
increased rates of psychiatric diagnosis and drug use--a cross sectional 
population based study.

Gigi K(1), Werbeloff N(2), Goldberg S(2), Portuguese S(3), Reichenberg A(4), 
Fruchter E(3), Weiser M(5).

Author information:
(1)Sackler School of Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Sheba Medical Center, Tel Hashomer 52621, Israel.
(3)Division of Mental Health, Medical Corps, IDF, Israel.
(4)Department of Psychological Medicine, Institute of Psychiatry, London, 
England, United Kingdom.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, Sheba Medical Center, Tel Hashomer 52621, Israel; 
Sackler School of Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel. Electronic 
address: mweiser@netvision.net.il.

Borderline intellectual functioning is defined by the DSM IV as an IQ range that 
is between one to two standard deviations below the mean (71<IQ<84), and a 
considerable percentage of the population is included in this definition 
(approximately 13.5%). The few studies performed on this group indicate that 
borderline intellectual functioning is associated with various mental disorders, 
problems in everyday functioning, social disability and poor academic or 
occupational achievement. Using data from the Israeli military, we retrieved the 
social and clinical characteristics of 76,962 adolescents with borderline 
intellectual functioning and compared their social functioning, psychiatric 
diagnoses and drug abuse with those of 96,580 adolescents with average IQ (± 
0.25 SD from population mean). The results demonstrated that the borderline 
intellectual functioning group had higher rates of poor social functioning 
compared to the control group (OR=1.9, 95% CI=1.85-1.94). Individuals with 
borderline intellectual functioning were 2.37 times more likely to have a 
psychiatric diagnosis (95% CI=2.30-2.45) and 1.2 times more likely to use drugs 
(95% CI=1.07-0.35) than those with average IQ. These results suggest that 
adolescents with borderline intellectual functioning are more likely to suffer 
from psychiatric disorders, poor social functioning and drug abuse than those 
with average intelligence, and that borderline intellectual functioning is a 
marker of vulnerability to these poor outcomes.

Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.euroneuro.2014.07.016
PMID: 25224107 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1239. Zhonghua Er Ke Za Zhi. 2014 Aug;52(8):616-9.

[Tyrosine hydroxylase deficiency: a case of autosomal recessive dopa-responsive 
dystonia].

[Article in Chinese]

Tan D(1), Zhang Y(1), Ye J(1), Han L(1), Qiu W(1), Gu X(1), Zhang H(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Endocrinologic, Genetic and Metabolic Diseases, 
Shanghai Institute for Pediatric Research, Xinhua Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University School of Medicine, Shanghai 200092, China.
(2)Department of Pediatric Endocrinologic, Genetic and Metabolic Diseases, 
Shanghai Institute for Pediatric Research, Xinhua Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University School of Medicine, Shanghai 200092, China. Email: 
huiwenzhang@yahoo.com.

OBJECTIVE: To analyze the clinical characteristics of the patient with tyrosine 
hydroxylase deficiency, and investigate it's molecular mechanism.
METHOD: The clinical characteristics of a patient with tyrosine hydroxylase 
deficiency were summarized and analyzed, his and his family's peripheral blood 
specimens were collected after informed consent was signed. All exons and the 
intron-exon boundaries of guanosine triphosphate hydroxylase I gene, tyrosine 
hydroxylase gene and sepiapterin reductase gene were examined by DNA-PCR, 
bi-directional sequencing.
RESULT: The patient was a 3-year-old boy, presented with unexplained dystonia 
for 3 years, without significant impairment of intelligence. Physical 
examination showed limb muscle strength grade V, rigidity of extremities, 
hypertonicity, brisk deep tendon reflexes in limbs, without obvious 
abnormalities in auxiliary examination, such as brain MRI, hepatic biochemical 
panel, creatine kinase, and ceruloplasmin. He dramatically responded to small 
doses of levodopa in the follow-up for half a year. A homozygous missense change 
in exon 5 of TH gene, c.605G > A (p.R202H), which was a known pathogenic 
mutation, was found in the patient. His parents were heterozygous for the R202H 
mutation.
CONCLUSION: The age of onset in tyrosine hydroxylase deficiency patients is 
usually within the first year of life. Unexplained dystonia and hypokinesia were 
the main clinical features of tyrosine hydroxylase deficiency. The 
dopa-responsive effects for some patients are so obvious that we should 
strengthen awareness of the disease. TH gene c.605G > A (p.R202H) may be a 
common type of causative mutations for the mild form at home and abroad.

PMID: 25224241 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1240. Mol Psychiatry. 2015 Feb;20(1):98-108. doi: 10.1038/mp.2014.105. Epub 2014 Sep 
16.

Genetics and intelligence differences: five special findings.

Plomin R(1), Deary IJ(2).

Author information:
(1)King's College London, MRC Social, Genetic & Developmental Psychiatry Centre, 
Institute of Psychiatry, DeCrespigny Park, London, UK.
(2)1] Department of Psychology, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK [2] 
Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, University of Edinburgh, 
Edinburgh, UK.

Intelligence is a core construct in differential psychology and behavioural 
genetics, and should be so in cognitive neuroscience. It is one of the best 
predictors of important life outcomes such as education, occupation, mental and 
physical health and illness, and mortality. Intelligence is one of the most 
heritable behavioural traits. Here, we highlight five genetic findings that are 
special to intelligence differences and that have important implications for its 
genetic architecture and for gene-hunting expeditions. (i) The heritability of 
intelligence increases from about 20% in infancy to perhaps 80% in later 
adulthood. (ii) Intelligence captures genetic effects on diverse cognitive and 
learning abilities, which correlate phenotypically about 0.30 on average but 
correlate genetically about 0.60 or higher. (iii) Assortative mating is greater 
for intelligence (spouse correlations ~0.40) than for other behavioural traits 
such as personality and psychopathology (~0.10) or physical traits such as 
height and weight (~0.20). Assortative mating pumps additive genetic variance 
into the population every generation, contributing to the high narrow 
heritability (additive genetic variance) of intelligence. (iv) Unlike 
psychiatric disorders, intelligence is normally distributed with a positive end 
of exceptional performance that is a model for 'positive genetics'. (v) 
Intelligence is associated with education and social class and broadens the 
causal perspectives on how these three inter-correlated variables contribute to 
social mobility, and health, illness and mortality differences. These five 
findings arose primarily from twin studies. They are being confirmed by the 
first new quantitative genetic technique in a century-Genome-wide Complex Trait 
Analysis (GCTA)-which estimates genetic influence using genome-wide genotypes in 
large samples of unrelated individuals. Comparing GCTA results to the results of 
twin studies reveals important insights into the genetic architecture of 
intelligence that are relevant to attempts to narrow the 'missing heritability' 
gap.

DOI: 10.1038/mp.2014.105
PMCID: PMC4270739
PMID: 25224258 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1241. Mol Psychiatry. 2015 Aug;20(8):1011-6. doi: 10.1038/mp.2014.99. Epub 2014 Sep 
16.

Genomic architecture of human neuroanatomical diversity.

Toro R(1), Poline JB(2), Huguet G(1), Loth E(3), Frouin V(4), Banaschewski T(5), 
Barker GJ(6), Bokde A(7), Büchel C(8), Carvalho FM(3), Conrod P(9), Fauth-Bühler 
M(10), Flor H(11), Gallinat J(12), Garavan H(13), Gowland P(14), Heinz A(12), 
Ittermann B(15), Lawrence C(16), Lemaître H(17), Mann K(10), Nees F(11), Paus 
T(18), Pausova Z(19), Rietschel M(20), Robbins T(21), Smolka MN(22), Ströhle 
A(12), Schumann G(23), Bourgeron T(24); IMAGEN consortium.

Collaborators: Schumann G, Mann K, Robbins TW, Klaassen A, Poline JB, Heinz A, 
Constant P, Stephens DN, Büchel C, Speiser C, Ireland J, Zysset A, Paus T, 
Lanzerath D, Garavan H, Martinot JL, Ittermann B, Smolka M, Pausova Z.

Author information:
(1)1] Human Genetics and Cognitive Functions, Neuroscience Department, Institut 
Pasteur, Paris, France [2] CNRS URA 2182 'Genes, synapses and cognition', Paris, 
France [3] Université Paris Diderot, Sorbonne Paris Cité, Human Genetics and 
Cognitive Functions, Paris, France.
(2)1] Henry H. Wheeler, Jr. Brain Imaging Center, University of California at 
Berkeley, Berkeley, CA, USA [2] Neurospin, Commissariat à l'Énergie Atomique et 
aux Énergies Alternatives, Paris, France.
(3)1] Social, Genetic and Developmental Psychiatry (SGDP) Centre, Institute of 
Psychiatry, King's College London, London, UK [2] MRC Social, Genetic and 
Developmental Psychiatry Centre, Institute of Psychiatry, London, UK.
(4)Henry H. Wheeler, Jr. Brain Imaging Center, University of California at 
Berkeley, Berkeley, CA, USA.
(5)Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, Central 
Institute of Mental Health, Medical Faculty Mannheim, Heidelberg University, 
Mannheim, Germany.
(6)Social, Genetic and Developmental Psychiatry (SGDP) Centre, Institute of 
Psychiatry, King's College London, London, UK.
(7)Discipline of Psychiatry, School of Medicine and Trinity College Institute of 
Neurosciences, Trinity College Dublin, Dublin, Ireland.
(8)University Medical Centre Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany.
(9)1] Social, Genetic and Developmental Psychiatry (SGDP) Centre, Institute of 
Psychiatry, King's College London, London, UK [2] Department of Psychiatry, 
Université de Montreal, CHU Ste Justine Hospital, Montreal, QC, Canada.
(10)Department of Addictive Behaviour and Addiction Medicine, Central Institute 
of Mental Health, Medical Faculty Mannheim, Heidelberg University, Mannheim, 
Germany.
(11)Department of Cognitive and Clinical Neuroscience, Central Institute of 
Mental Health, Medical Faculty Mannheim, Heidelberg University, Mannheim, 
Germany.
(12)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, Campus Charité Mitte, 
Charité-Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Berlin, Germany.
(13)1] Discipline of Psychiatry, School of Medicine and Trinity College 
Institute of Neurosciences, Trinity College Dublin, Dublin, Ireland [2] 
Departments of Psychiatry and Psychology, University of Vermont, Burlington, VT, 
USA.
(14)Departments of Psychiatry and Psychology, University of Vermont, Burlington, 
VT, USA.
(15)Physikalisch-Technische Bundesanstalt, Berlin, Germany.
(16)School of Psychology, University of Nottingham, Nottingham, UK.
(17)1] Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche Medicale, INSERM CEA 
Unit 1000, 'Imaging & Psychiatry', University Paris Sud, Orsay, France [2] 
Department of Adolescent Psychopathology and Medicine, Assistance Publique 
Hôpitaux de Paris, Maison de Solenn, Université Paris Descartes, Paris, France.
(18)1] School of Psychology, University of Nottingham, Nottingham, UK [2] 
Psychology and Psychiatry Department, Rotman Research Institute, University of 
Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada [3] Department of Psychiatry, Université de 
Montreal, CHU Ste Justine Hospital, Montreal, QC, Canada.
(19)The Hospital for Sick Children, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(20)Department of Genetic Epidemiology in Psychiatry, Central Institute of 
Mental Health, Medical Faculty Mannheim, Heidelberg University, Mannheim, 
Germany.
(21)Department of Psychology and Behavioural and Clinical Neuroscience 
Institute, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.
(22)1] Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, Technische Universität 
Dresden, Dresden, Germany [2] Department of Psychology, Neuroimaging Center, 
Technische Universität Dresden, Dresden, Germany.
(23)1] Social, Genetic and Developmental Psychiatry (SGDP) Centre, Institute of 
Psychiatry, King's College London, London, UK [2] MRC Social, Genetic and 
Developmental Psychiatry Centre, Institute of Psychiatry, London, UK [3] 
Fondamental Foundation, Créteil, France.
(24)1] Human Genetics and Cognitive Functions, Neuroscience Department, Institut 
Pasteur, Paris, France [2] CNRS URA 2182 'Genes, synapses and cognition', Paris, 
France [3] Université Paris Diderot, Sorbonne Paris Cité, Human Genetics and 
Cognitive Functions, Paris, France [4] Fondamental Foundation, Créteil, France.

Human brain anatomy is strikingly diverse and highly inheritable: genetic 
factors may explain up to 80% of its variability. Prior studies have tried to 
detect genetic variants with a large effect on neuroanatomical diversity, but 
those currently identified account for <5% of the variance. Here, based on our 
analyses of neuroimaging and whole-genome genotyping data from 1765 subjects, we 
show that up to 54% of this heritability is captured by large numbers of 
single-nucleotide polymorphisms of small-effect spread throughout the genome, 
especially within genes and close regulatory regions. The genetic bases of 
neuroanatomical diversity appear to be relatively independent of those of body 
size (height), but shared with those of verbal intelligence scores. The study of 
this genomic architecture should help us better understand brain evolution and 
disease.

DOI: 10.1038/mp.2014.99
PMID: 25224261 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1242. J Trace Elem Med Biol. 2015 Jan;29:336-41. doi: 10.1016/j.jtemb.2014.08.014. 
Epub 2014 Sep 3.

Evidence that cognitive deficit in children is associated not only with iron 
deficiency, but also with blood lead concentration: a preliminary study.

Jeong KS(1), Park H(2), Ha E(3), Hong YC(4), Ha M(5), Park H(3), Kim BN(6), Lee 
SJ(7), Lee KY(8), Kim JH(8), Kim Y(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Occupational and Environmental Medicine, Dongguk University 
College of Medicine, Dongguk University Ilsan Hospital, Goyang, Republic of 
Korea.
(2)Department of Child and Family Welfare, University of Ulsan, Ulsan, Republic 
of Korea.
(3)Department of Preventive Medicine, Ewha Medical Research Center, School of 
Medicine, Ewha Womans University, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(4)Institute of Environmental Medicine, Medical Research Center, Seoul National 
University, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(5)Department of Preventive Medicine, College of Medicine, Dankook University, 
Cheonan, Republic of Korea.
(6)Department of Psychiatry, College of Medicine, Seoul National University, 
Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(7)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Ulsan University Hospital, 
University of Ulsan College of Medicine, Ulsan, Republic of Korea.
(8)Department of Pediatrics, Ulsan University Hospital, University of Ulsan 
College of Medicine, Ulsan, Republic of Korea.
(9)Department of Occupational and Environmental Medicine, Ulsan University 
Hospital, University of Ulsan College of Medicine, Ulsan, Republic of Korea. 
Electronic address: yanghokm@nuri.net.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate whether blood lead concentrations are elevated in 
iron-deficient children, and to examine the association between iron deficiency 
and/or elevated blood lead concentration and cognitive deficits in children.
METHOD: The present study is a component of the Mothers' and Children's 
Environmental Health (MOCEH) study, a multi-center birth cohort project in Korea 
that began in 2006. The study cohort consisted of 194 children who underwent 
testing of blood lead and serum C-reactive proteins (CRPs) and ferritin 
concentrations, and the Korean version of the Wechsler Preschool and Primary 
Scale of Intelligence, revised edition (WPPSI-R), at 60 months of age. In 
addition, the mothers' blood lead concentrations during pregnancy were included 
in the analyses. Multivariate linear regression analysis was performed to 
analyze the correlation between high blood lead and low serum ferritin 
concentrations, after adjustment for covariates, in children, as well as to 
analyze the association of verbal IQ with serum ferritin and blood lead 
concentrations.
RESULTS: Lead and ferritin concentrations were inversely and significantly 
associated in children after adjustment for covariates. Moreover, both 
concentrations were associated with verbal IQ, after adjustment for covariates, 
and each was associated with cognitive deficits after adjustment for the other. 
Sobel test statistics showed that blood lead concentration was a significant 
partial mediator for the relationship between iron deficiency and verbal IQ.
CONCLUSION: Due to the results discussed in the present study, cognitive deficit 
in children seems to be associated not only with iron deficiency, but also with 
blood lead concentration.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtemb.2014.08.014
PMID: 25224739 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1243. N Biotechnol. 2015 May 25;32(3):358-68. doi: 10.1016/j.nbt.2014.08.003. Epub 
2014 Sep 16.

Experimental analysis and mathematical prediction of Cd(II) removal by 
biosorption using support vector machines and genetic algorithms.

Hlihor RM(1), Diaconu M(1), Leon F(2), Curteanu S(3), Tavares T(4), Gavrilescu 
M(5).

Author information:
(1)"Gheorghe Asachi" Technical University of Iasi, Faculty of Chemical 
Engineering and Environmental Protection, Department of Environmental 
Engineering and Management, 73 Prof. Dr. Docent Dimitrie Mangeron Street, 700050 
Iasi, Romania.
(2)"Gheorghe Asachi" Technical University of Iasi, Faculty of Automatic Control 
and Computer Engineering, Department of Computer Engineering, 27 Prof. Dr. 
Docent Dimitrie Mangeron Street, 700050 Iasi, Romania.
(3)"Gheorghe Asachi" Technical University of Iasi, Faculty of Chemical 
Engineering and Environmental Protection, Department of Chemical Engineering, 73 
Prof. Dr. Docent Dimitrie Mangeron Street, 700050 Iasi, Romania.
(4)University of Minho, Department of Biological Engineering, Campus de Gualtar, 
4710-057 Braga, Portugal.
(5)"Gheorghe Asachi" Technical University of Iasi, Faculty of Chemical 
Engineering and Environmental Protection, Department of Environmental 
Engineering and Management, 73 Prof. Dr. Docent Dimitrie Mangeron Street, 700050 
Iasi, Romania; Academy of Romanian Scientists, 54 Splaiul Independentei, 
RO-050094 Bucharest, Romania. Electronic address: mgav@tuiasi.ro.

We investigated the bioremoval of Cd(II) in batch mode, using dead and living 
biomass of Trichoderma viride. Kinetic studies revealed three distinct stages of 
the biosorption process. The pseudo-second order model and the Langmuir model 
described well the kinetics and equilibrium of the biosorption process, with a 
determination coefficient, R(2)>0.99. The value of the mean free energy of 
adsorption, E, is less than 16 kJ/mol at 25 °C, suggesting that, at low 
temperature, the dominant process involved in Cd(II) biosorption by dead T. 
viride is the chemical ion-exchange. With the temperature increasing to 40-50 
°C, E values are above 16 kJ/mol, showing that the particle diffusion mechanism 
could play an important role in Cd(II) biosorption. The studies on T. viride 
growth in Cd(II) solutions and its bioaccumulation performance showed that the 
living biomass was able to bioaccumulate 100% Cd(II) from a 50 mg/L solution at 
pH 6.0. The influence of pH, biomass dosage, metal concentration, contact time 
and temperature on the bioremoval efficiency was evaluated to further assess the 
biosorption capability of the dead biosorbent. These complex influences were 
correlated by means of a modeling procedure consisting in data driven approach 
in which the principles of artificial intelligence were applied with the help of 
support vector machines (SVM), combined with genetic algorithms (GA). According 
to our data, the optimal working conditions for the removal of 98.91% Cd(II) by 
T. viride were found for an aqueous solution containing 26.11 mg/L Cd(II) as 
follows: pH 6.0, contact time of 3833 min, 8 g/L biosorbent, temperature 46.5 
°C. The complete characterization of bioremoval parameters indicates that T. 
viride is an excellent material to treat wastewater containing low 
concentrations of metal.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nbt.2014.08.003
PMID: 25224921 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1244. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2014 Sep 16;111 Suppl 4(Suppl 4):13598-605. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.1320868111. Epub 2014 Sep 15.

Leveraging scientific credibility about Arctic sea ice trends in a polarized 
political environment.

Jamieson KH(1), Hardy BW(2).

Author information:
(1)Annenberg School for Communication and Annenberg Public Policy Center, 
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104 kjamieson@asc.upenn.edu 
bhardy@asc.upenn.edu.
(2)Annenberg Public Policy Center, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 
19104 kjamieson@asc.upenn.edu bhardy@asc.upenn.edu.

This work argues that, in a polarized environment, scientists can minimize the 
likelihood that the audience's biased processing will lead to rejection of their 
message if they not only eschew advocacy but also, convey that they are sharers 
of knowledge faithful to science's way of knowing and respectful of the 
audience's intelligence; the sources on which they rely are well-regarded by 
both conservatives and liberals; and the message explains how the scientist 
arrived at the offered conclusion, is conveyed in a visual form that involves 
the audience in drawing its own conclusions, and capsulizes key inferences in an 
illustrative analogy. A pilot experiment raises the possibility that such a 
leveraging-involving-visualizing-analogizing message structure can increase 
acceptance of the scientific claims about the downward cross-decade trend in 
Arctic sea ice extent and elicit inferences consistent with the scientific 
consensus on climate change among conservatives exposed to misleadingly 
selective data in a partisan news source.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1320868111
PMCID: PMC4183171
PMID: 25225380 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


1245. Clin Neuropsychol. 2014;28(7):1182-96. doi: 10.1080/13854046.2014.956674. Epub 
2014 Sep 16.

Discriminating among ADHD alone, ADHD with a comorbid psychological disorder, 
and feigned ADHD in a college sample.

Williamson KD(1), Combs HL, Berry DT, Harp JP, Mason LH, Edmundson M.

Author information:
(1)a Department of Psychology , University of Kentucky , Lexington , KY 40506 , 
USA.

Since the early 2000s concern has increased that college students might feign 
ADHD in pursuit of academic accommodations and stimulant medication. In 
response, several studies have validated tests for use in differentiating 
feigned from genuine ADHD. Although results have generally been positive, 
relatively few publications have addressed the possible impact of the presence 
of psychological disorders comorbid with ADHD. Because ADHD is thought to have 
accompanying conditions at rates of 50% and higher, it is important to determine 
if the additional psychological disorders might compromise the accuracy of 
feigning detection measures. The present study extended the findings of Jasinski 
et al. (2011) to examine the efficacy of various measures in the context of 
feigned versus genuine ADHD with comorbid psychological disorders in 
undergraduate students. Two clinical groups (ADHD only and ADHD + comorbid 
psychological disorder) were contrasted with two non-clinical groups (normal 
controls answering honestly and normal participants feigning ADHD). Extending 
previous research to individuals with ADHD and either an anxiety or learning 
disorder, performance validity tests such as the Test of Memory Malingering 
(TOMM), the Letter Memory Test (LMT), and the Nonverbal Medical Symptom Validity 
Test (NV-MSVT) were effective in differentiating both ADHD groups from normal 
participants feigning ADHD. However, the Digit Memory Test (DMT) underperformed 
in this study, as did embedded validity indices from the Wechsler Adult 
Intelligence Scale-IV (WAIS-IV) and Woodcock Johnson Tests of Achievement-III 
(WJ-III).

DOI: 10.1080/13854046.2014.956674
PMID: 25225947 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1246. J Drugs Dermatol. 2014 Sep;13(9):1112-7.

Two-treatment protocol for skin laxity using 90-Watt dynamic monopolar 
radiofrequency device with real-time impedance intelligence monitoring.

McDaniel D, Weiss R, Weiss M, Mazur C, Griffen C.

Multiple devices are currently on the market that employ radiofrequency to 
non-invasively treat skin laxity and wrinkle reduction. The study device was a 
unique monopolar radiofrequency device FDA cleared for the treatment of wrinkles 
and rhytids. The delivery system allows constant monitoring of the real-time 
local skin impedance changes, which allows radiofrequency energy to be more 
uniformly dosed over an entire treatment area.
OBJECTIVE: The objective was to validate effectiveness of a modified treatment 
protocol for a unique monopolar radiofrequency device, which has been engineered 
with greater power and self-monitoring circuitry.
METHODS: Twenty-four female subjects received bilateral monopolar radiofrequency 
treatments to the mid and lower face from the sub malar region to the submentum. 
Subjects completed 1 and 3 month follow ups with digital imaging. Skin biopsies 
(on 4 subjects) and ultrasound measurements (on 12 subjects) were completed.
RESULTS: Assessments demonstrated a reduction in skin laxity of 35%, a reduction 
in fine lines/wrinkles of 42%, and a reduction in the appearance of global 
photodamage of 33%. Expert photograding demonstrated 92% of subjects showing at 
least a mild improvement in skin laxity at three months post treatment. 50 MHz 
ultrasound measurements in 12 subjects showed an increase of 19% in skin 
density. Histology showed a marked increase in dermal collagen and elastin 
fibers in two subjects who demonstrated a clinically noticeable reduction in 
skin laxity and minimal changes in two subjects who demonstrated minimal 
clinical improvements. There were no significant adverse events reported.
CONCLUSION: This modified radiofrequency device and treatment protocol was well 
tolerated and produced improvements in the appearance of skin laxity and overall 
anti-aging effects in the majority of subjects. Objective measurements including 
ultrasound and histology help explain the clinical outcome.

PMID: 25226013 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1247. PLoS One. 2014 Sep 16;9(9):e107320. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0107320. 
eCollection 2014.

Reduced cortical complexity in children with Prader-Willi Syndrome and its 
association with cognitive impairment and developmental delay.

Lukoshe A(1), Hokken-Koelega AC(1), van der Lugt A(2), White T(3).

Author information:
(1)Dutch Growth Research Foundation, Rotterdam, The Netherlands; Department of 
Pediatrics, Erasmus Medical Centre Rotterdam/Sophia Children's Hospital 
Rotterdam Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(2)Department of Radiology, Erasmus Medical Centre Rotterdam, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(3)Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Erasmus Medical Centre 
Rotterdam - Sophia Children's Hospital, Rotterdam, The Netherlands; Department 
of Radiology, Erasmus Medical Centre Rotterdam, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Prader-Willi Syndrome (PWS) is a complex neurogenetic disorder with 
symptoms involving not only hypothalamic, but also a global, central nervous 
system dysfunction. Previously, qualitative studies reported polymicrogyria in 
adults with PWS. However, there have been no quantitative neuroimaging studies 
of cortical morphology in PWS and no studies to date in children with PWS. Thus, 
our aim was to investigate and quantify cortical complexity in children with PWS 
compared to healthy controls. In addition, we investigated differences between 
genetic subtypes of PWS and the relationship between cortical complexity and 
intelligence within the PWS group.
METHODS: High-resolution structural magnetic resonance images were acquired in 
24 children with genetically confirmed PWS (12 carrying a deletion (DEL), 12 
with maternal uniparental disomy (mUPD)) and 11 age- and sex-matched typically 
developing siblings as healthy controls. Local gyrification index (lGI) was 
obtained using the FreeSurfer software suite.
RESULTS: Four large clusters, two in each hemisphere, comprising frontal, 
parietal and temporal lobes, had lower lGI in children with PWS, compared to 
healthy controls. Clusters with lower lGI also had significantly lower cortical 
surface area in children with PWS. No differences in cortical thickness of the 
clusters were found between the PWS and healthy controls. lGI correlated 
significantly with cortical surface area, but not with cortical thickness. 
Within the PWS group, lGI in both hemispheres correlated with Total IQ and 
Verbal IQ, but not with Performance IQ. Children with mUPD, compared to children 
with DEL, had two small clusters with lower lGI in the right hemisphere. lGI of 
these clusters correlated with cortical surface area, but not with cortical 
thickness or IQ.
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that lower cortical complexity in children 
with PWS partially underlies cognitive impairment and developmental delay, 
probably due to alterations in gene networks that play a prominent role in early 
brain development.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0107320
PMCID: PMC4165760
PMID: 25226172 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


1248. Lupus. 2014 Oct;23(12):1246-8. doi: 10.1177/0961203314538109.

Children born to SLE and APS mothers.

Nalli C(1), Iodice A(2), Andreoli L(1), Lojacono A(3), Motta M(4), Fazzi E(2), 
Tincani A(5).

Author information:
(1)Rheumatology and Clinical Immunology.
(2)Unit of Child and Adolescent Neuropsychiatry.
(3)Obstetrics and Gynecology, Department of Clinical and Experimental Sciences, 
Spedali Civili and University of Brescia, Italy.
(4)Neonatology and NICU, Spedali Civili, Brescia, Italy.
(5)Rheumatology and Clinical Immunology tincani@bresciareumatologia.it.

BACKGROUND: Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and antiphospholipid antibody 
syndrome (APS) are autoimmune diseases that affect women of childbearing age. 
Pregnancies in these patients carry several complications such as prematurity. 
Maternal IgG antiphospholipid antibodies (aPL) can cross the placenta but they 
don't generally cause any neonatal thrombotic event. Because of the 
incompleteness of the fetal blood-brain barrier, aPL could theoretically reach 
the fetal brain. Whether this can have an effect on brain development is still 
under investigation. Some studies performed in children of patients with SLE 
and/or APS showed an increased number of learning disabilities without 
impairment in intelligence level.
OBJECTIVES: The objectives of this article are to evaluate the neurodevelopment 
outcome in 30 children (median age 9 years) born to mothers with SLE and/or APS 
with IgG anti-beta2-glycoprotein I during the third trimester of pregnancy and 
found positive for the same antibodies at birth.
METHODS: A neurological physical exam was performed in all children. We 
submitted some questionnaires to the mothers: the Child Behavior CheckList 
(CBCL) and a homemade set of questions obtained by a team composed of 
rheumatologists and pediatric neurologists. Intellectual functioning was 
determined by the Wechsler scale for corrected age.
RESULTS: In all children neurological physical exam and intelligence levels were 
found to be normal but mild behavior disorders and history of neurological 
manifestations were shown in three children.
CONCLUSIONS: Offspring of patients with SLE and/or APS are generally healthy. We 
and others observed the occurrence of minor neurological disorders that might be 
related to maternal disease or to prematurity. The limited number of the 
available data on this sensitive issue supports the need for further studies.

© The Author(s) 2014 Reprints and permissions: 
sagepub.co.uk/journalsPermissions.nav.

DOI: 10.1177/0961203314538109
PMID: 25228716 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1249. Am J Med Genet B Neuropsychiatr Genet. 2014 Dec;165B(8):627-34. doi: 
10.1002/ajmg.b.32267. Epub 2014 Sep 17.

Association study of developmental dyslexia candidate genes DCDC2 and KIAA0319 
in Chinese population.

Sun Y(1), Gao Y, Zhou Y, Chen H, Wang G, Xu J, Xia J, Huen MS, Siok WT, Jiang Y, 
Tan LH.

Author information:
(1)The State Key Laboratory Breeding Base-Shenzhen Key Laboratory of Chemical 
Biology, The Graduate School at Shenzhen, Tsinghua University, Shenzhen, China; 
Medical Systems Biology Research Center, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Tsinghua University School of Medicine, Beijing, China; National Engineering 
Research Center for Beijing Biochip Technology, Beijing, China; CapitalBio 
Corporation, Beijing, China.

Developmental dyslexia (DD) is characterized by difficulties in reading and 
spelling independent of intelligence, educational backgrounds and neurological 
injuries. Increasing evidences supported DD as a complex genetic disorder and 
identified four DD candidate genes namely DYX1C1, DCDC2, KIAA0319 and ROBO1. As 
such, DCDC2 and KIAA0319 are located in DYX2, one of the most studied DD 
susceptibility loci. However, association of these two genes with DD was 
inconclusive across different populations. Given the linguistic and genetic 
differences between Chinese and other populations, it is worthwhile to 
investigate association of DCDC2 and KIAA0319 with Chinese dyslexic children. 
Here, we selected 60 tag SNPs covering DCDC2 and KIAA0319 followed by high 
density genotyping in a large unrelated Chinese cohort with 502 dyslexic cases 
and 522 healthy controls. Several SNPs (Pmin = 0.0192) of DCDC2 and KIAA0319 as 
well as a four-maker haplotype (Padjusted = 0.0289, Odds Ratio (OR) = 1.3400) of 
KIAA0319 showed nominal association with DD. However, none of these results 
survived Bonferroni correction for multiple comparisons. Thus, the association 
of DCDC2 and KIAA0319 with DD in Chinese population should be further validated 
and their contribution to DD etiology and pathology should be interpreted with 
caution.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.b.32267
PMID: 25230923 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1250. Int Marit Health. 2014;65(2):73-8. doi: 10.5603/IMH.2014.0017.

Assessment of intelligence quotient among schoolchildren of fishermen community 
of Kutch, Gujarat, India.

Asawa K(1), Pujara P, Thakkar JP, Pandya BG, Sharma AR, Pareek S, Tak A, Tak M, 
Maniar R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health Dentistry, Pacific Dental College and Hospital, 
Udaipur, Rajasthan, India. kailashasawaudr@yahoo.com.

BACKGROUND AND AIM: The aim of the study was to assess the intelligence quotient 
of fishermen school children of Kutch, Gujarat, India.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A descriptive cross-sectional study was conducted among 8 
to 10 years old school children living in Kutch District, Gujarat, India, from 
January to February 2013. Seguin Form Board Test was used to assess the 
intelligence quotient (IQ) level of children. Means of groups were compared by 
independent student t-test. Stepwise multiple linear regression was used to 
identify predictors for IQ.
RESULTS: The mean average timing taken by fishermen school children to complete 
the test was 30.64 ± 4.97. Males had significantly lower mean timing scores than 
females (p < 0.05). Participants with severe dental fluorosis, low 
socio-economic status (SES), lower education level of both mother and father and 
those who were overweight had significantly higher mean timing scores for 
average category.
CONCLUSIONS: The present study suggested a low IQ among fishermen school 
children community of Kutch, Gujarat, India. The major factors which influenced 
their IQ were dental fluorosis, low SES, low education level of parents and high 
body mass index.

DOI: 10.5603/IMH.2014.0017
PMID: 25231330 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1251. Psychol Sci. 2014 Nov;25(11):2017-26. doi: 10.1177/0956797614547539. Epub 2014 
Sep 17.

State and trait effects on individual differences in children's mathematical 
development.

Bailey DH(1), Watts TW(2), Littlefield AK(3), Geary DC(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Education, University of California, Irvine dhbailey@uci.edu.
(2)School of Education, University of California, Irvine.
(3)Department of Psychological Sciences, Texas Tech University.
(4)Department of Psychological Sciences, University of Missouri.

Substantial longitudinal relations between children's early mathematics 
achievement and their much later mathematics achievement are firmly established. 
These findings are seemingly at odds with studies showing that early educational 
interventions have diminishing effects on children's mathematics achievement 
across time. We hypothesized that individual differences in children's later 
mathematical knowledge are more an indicator of stable, underlying 
characteristics related to mathematics learning throughout development than of 
direct effects of early mathematical competency on later mathematical 
competency. We tested this hypothesis in two longitudinal data sets, by 
simultaneously modeling effects of latent traits (stable characteristics that 
influence learning across time) and states (e.g., prior knowledge) on children's 
mathematics achievement over time. Latent trait effects on children's 
mathematical development were substantially larger than state effects. 
Approximately 60% of the variance in trait mathematics achievement was accounted 
for by commonly used control variables, such as working memory, but residual 
trait effects remained larger than state effects. Implications for research and 
practice are discussed.

© The Author(s) 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/0956797614547539
PMCID: PMC4292922
PMID: 25231900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1252. Genet Med. 2015 May;17(5):396-9. doi: 10.1038/gim.2014.118. Epub 2014 Sep 18.

Excess of runs of homozygosity is associated with severe cognitive impairment in 
intellectual disability.

Gandin I(1), Faletra F(2), Faletra F(2), Carella M(3), Pecile V(2), Ferrero 
GB(4), Biamino E(4), Palumbo P(3), Palumbo O(3), Bosco P(5), Romano C(6), 
Belcaro C(1), Vozzi D(2), d'Adamo AP(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical, Surgical and Health Sciences, University of Trieste, 
Trieste, Italy.
(2)Institute for Maternal and Child Health, IRCCS "Burlo Garofolo," Trieste, 
Italy.
(3)Medical Genetics Unit, IRCCS Casa Sollievo della Sofferenza, San Giovanni 
Rotondo, Italy.
(4)Department of Pediatrics, University of Torino, Torino, Italy.
(5)Oasi Institute for Research on Mental Retardation and Brain Aging (IRCCS), 
Troina, Italy.
(6)Unit of Pediatrics and Medical Genetics, IRCCS Associazione Oasi Maria 
Santissima, Troina, Italy.
(7)1] Department of Medical, Surgical and Health Sciences, University of 
Trieste, Trieste, Italy [2] Institute for Maternal and Child Health, IRCCS 
"Burlo Garofolo," Trieste, Italy.

PURPOSE: The harmful effects of inbreeding are well known by geneticists, and 
several studies have already reported cases of intellectual disability caused by 
recessive variants in consanguineous families. Nevertheless, the effects of 
inbreeding on the degree of intellectual disability are still poorly 
investigated. Here, we present a detailed analysis of the homozygosity regions 
in a cohort of 612 patients with intellectual disabilities of different degrees.
METHODS: We investigated (i) the runs of homozygosity distribution between 
syndromic and nonsyndromic ID (ii) the effect of runs of homozygosity on the ID 
degree, using the intelligence quotient score.
RESULTS: Our data revealed no significant differences in the first analysis; 
instead we detected significantly larger runs of homozygosity stretches in 
severe ID compared to nonsevere ID cases (P = 0.007), together with an increase 
of the percentage of genome covered by runs of homozygosity (P = 0.03).
CONCLUSION: In accord with the recent findings regarding autism and other 
neurological disorders, this study reveals the important role of autosomal 
recessive variants in intellectual disability. The amount of homozygosity seems 
to modulate the degree of cognitive impairment despite the intellectual 
disability cause.

DOI: 10.1038/gim.2014.118
PMID: 25232855 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1253. Genet Med. 2015 May;17(5):365-73. doi: 10.1038/gim.2014.109. Epub 2014 Sep 18.

Long-term developmental progression in infants and young children taking 
sapropterin for phenylketonuria: a two-year analysis of safety and efficacy.

Longo N(1), Siriwardena K(2), Feigenbaum A(2), Dimmock D(3), Burton BK(4), 
Stockler S(5), Waisbren S(6), Lang W(7), Jurecki E(7), Zhang C(7), Prasad S(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Genetics, Department of Pediatrics, University of Utah, 
Salt Lake City, Utah, USA.
(2)Hospital for Sick Children and University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.
(3)Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, USA.
(4)The Ann and Robert H. Lurie Children's Hospital of Chicago, Chicago, 
Illinois, USA.
(5)British Columbia Children's Hospital, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.
(6)Boston Children's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(7)BioMarin Pharmaceutical, Inc., Novato, California, USA.

PURPOSE: Sapropterin is an oral synthetic formulation of tetrahydrobiopterin 
prescribed as adjunctive therapy for phenylketonuria. The efficacy of 
sapropterin in reducing blood phenylalanine levels has been demonstrated in 
clinical studies of individuals with phenylketonuria older than 4 years of age. 
Its effect on neurocognitive functioning in younger children has not been 
examined.
METHODS: A 2-year interim analysis of blood phenylalanine levels, prescribed 
dietary phenylalanine intake, and neurocognitive functioning was performed in 
children who started receiving sapropterin at 0-6 years of age and responded 
with a ≥30% mean blood phenylalanine reduction. Children were evaluated at 
baseline and 2-year follow-up.
RESULTS: Sapropterin had a favorable safety profile and lowered blood 
phenylalanine levels with increased prescribed dietary phenylalanine intakes. 
Mean full-scale intelligence quotient was 103 ± 12 at baseline and 104 ± 10 at 
2-year follow-up (P = 0.50, paired t-test, n = 25). For children younger than 30 
months of age, the cognitive composite score from the Bayley Scales of Infant 
and Toddler Development, Third Edition, remained within the average range.
CONCLUSION: Sapropterin had a favorable safety profile, was effective in 
lowering blood phenylalanine levels while clinically requiring dietary 
adjustment, resulting in increased phenylalanine intake, and preserved 
neurocognitive performance in children who started therapy between 0 and 6 years 
of age.

DOI: 10.1038/gim.2014.109
PMID: 25232857 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1254. Sensors (Basel). 2014 Sep 17;14(9):17313-30. doi: 10.3390/s140917313.

Integration of multisensor hybrid reasoners to support personal autonomy in the 
smart home.

Valero MÁ(1), Bravo J(2), Chamizo JM(3), López-de-Ipiña D(4).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Ingeniería y Arquitecturas Telemáticas, Universidad 
Politécnica de Madrid, Carretera de Valencia km. 7, Madrid 28031, Spain. 
mavalero@diatel.upm.es.
(2)MAmI Research Lab, Universidad de Castilla La Mancha, Ciudad Real 13071, 
Spain. Jose.Bravo@uclm.es.
(3)Universidad de Alicante, Alicante 03690, Spain. juanma@dtic.ua.es.
(4)Deusto Institute of Technology, DeustoTech, University of Deusto, Avda. 
Universidades 24, Bilbao 48007, Spain. dipina@deusto.es.

The deployment of the Ambient Intelligence (AmI) paradigm requires designing and 
integrating user-centered smart environments to assist people in their daily 
life activities. This research paper details an integration and validation of 
multiple heterogeneous sensors with hybrid reasoners that support decision 
making in order to monitor personal and environmental data at a smart home in a 
private way. The results innovate on knowledge-based platforms, distributed 
sensors, connected objects, accessibility and authentication methods to promote 
independent living for elderly people. TALISMAN+, the AmI framework deployed, 
integrates four subsystems in the smart home: (i) a mobile biomedical 
telemonitoring platform to provide elderly patients with continuous disease 
management; (ii) an integration middleware that allows context capture from 
heterogeneous sensors to program environment's reaction; (iii) a vision system 
for intelligent monitoring of daily activities in the home; and (iv) an 
ontologies-based integrated reasoning platform to trigger local actions and 
manage private information in the smart home. The framework was integrated in 
two real running environments, the UPM Accessible Digital Home and MetalTIC 
house, and successfully validated by five experts in home care, elderly people 
and personal autonomy.

DOI: 10.3390/s140917313
PMCID: PMC4208226
PMID: 25232910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1255. Pediatr Nephrol. 2015 Mar;30(3):503-13. doi: 10.1007/s00467-014-2950-0. Epub 
2014 Sep 19.

Neurodevelopmental long-term outcome in children after hemolytic uremic 
syndrome.

Buder K(1), Latal B, Nef S, Neuhaus TJ, Laube GF, Spartà G.

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Nephrology Unit, University Children's Hospital, Zurich, 
Steinwiesstrasse 75, 8032, Zurich, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: To investigate the long-term neurodevelopmental outcome in children 
after hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS) and to compare outcome dependent on 
central nervous system (CNS) involvement during HUS.
METHODS: A single-center retrospective cohort of 47 children was examined at a 
median age of 10.6 (range 6-16.9) years and a median follow-up of 7.8 (range 
0.4-15.3) years after having had HUS. Intellectual performance was assessed with 
the German version of the Wechsler Intelligence Scale 4th version and neuromotor 
performance with the Zurich Neuromotor Assessment (ZNA). The occurrence of 
neurological symptoms during the acute phase of HUS was evaluated 
retrospectively.
RESULTS: Mean IQ of the whole study population fell within the normal range 
(median full scale IQ 104, range 54-127). Neuromotor performance was 
significantly poorer in the domains "adaptive fine," "gross motor," "static 
balance" (all p < 0.05) and "associated movements" (p < 0.001); only the "pure 
motor" domain was within the normal reference range. Neurological findings 
occurred in 16/47 patients (34 %) during acute HUS. Neurodevelopmental outcome 
was not significantly different between children with or without CNS 
involvement.
CONCLUSIONS: Our follow-up of children after HUS showed a favorable cognitive 
outcome. However, neuromotor outcome was impaired in all study participants. 
Neurological impairment during acute HUS was not predictive of outcome.

DOI: 10.1007/s00467-014-2950-0
PMID: 25234636 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1256. J Acoust Soc Am. 2014 Feb;135(2):EL88-94. doi: 10.1121/1.4862879.

Individual differences in top-down restoration of interrupted speech: links to 
linguistic and cognitive abilities.

Benard MR(1), Mensink JS(1), Başkent D(2).

Author information:
(1)Pento Audiology Center Zwolle, Oosterlaan 20, 8011 GC Zwolle, The Netherlands 
m.r.benard@umcg.nl, j.mensink@pento.nl.
(2)University of Groningen, University Medical Center Groningen, Department of 
Otorhinolaryngology/Head and Neck Surgery, Postbus 30.001, 9700 RB Groningen, 
The Netherlands d.baskent@umcg.nl.

Top-down restoration mechanisms can enhance perception of degraded speech. Even 
in normal hearing, however, a large variability has been observed in how 
effectively individuals can benefit from these mechanisms. To investigate if 
this variability is partially caused by individuals' linguistic and cognitive 
skills, normal-hearing participants of varying ages were assessed for receptive 
vocabulary (Peabody Picture Vocabulary Test; PPVT-III-NL), for full-scale 
intelligence (Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale; WAIS-IV-NL), and for top-down 
restoration of interrupted speech (with silent or noise-filled gaps). Receptive 
vocabulary was significantly correlated with the other measures, suggesting 
linguistic skills to be highly involved in restoration of degraded speech.

DOI: 10.1121/1.4862879
PMID: 25234920 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1257. J Psychopharmacol. 2015 Jan;29(1):24-30. doi: 10.1177/0269881114548438. Epub 
2014 Sep 18.

Predicting methylphenidate response in attention deficit hyperactivity disorder: 
a preliminary study.

Johnston BA(1), Coghill D(2), Matthews K(2), Steele JD(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Neuroscience, Medical Research Institute, Ninewells Hospital and 
Medical School, University of Dundee, Dundee, UK blair.a.johnston@gmail.com.
(2)Division of Neuroscience, Medical Research Institute, Ninewells Hospital and 
Medical School, University of Dundee, Dundee, UK.

Methylphenidate (MPH) is established as the main pharmacological treatment for 
patients with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Whilst MPH is 
generally a highly effective treatment, not all patients respond, and some 
experience adverse reactions. Currently, there is no reliable method to predict 
how patients will respond, other than by exposure to a trial of medication. In 
this preliminary study, we sought to investigate whether an accurate predictor 
of clinical response to methylphenidate could be developed for individual 
patients, using sociodemographic, clinical and neuropsychological measures. Of 
the 43 boys with ADHD included in this proof-of-concept study, 30 were classed 
as responders and 13 as non-responders to MPH, with no significant differences 
in age nor verbal intelligence quotient (IQ) between the groups. Here we report 
the application of a multivariate analysis approach to the prediction of 
clinical response to MPH, which achieved an accuracy of 77% (p = 0.005). The 
most important variables to the classifier were performance on a 'go/no go' task 
and comorbid conduct disorder. This preliminary study suggested that further 
investigation is merited. Achieving a highly significant accuracy of 77% for the 
prediction of MPH response is an encouraging step towards finding a reliable and 
clinically useful method that could minimise the number of children needlessly 
being exposed to MPH.

© The Author(s) 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/0269881114548438
PMID: 25237119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1258. Cogn Behav Neurol. 2014 Sep;27(3):148-54. doi: 10.1097/WNN.0000000000000035.

Utility of the Montreal Cognitive Assessment and Mini-Mental State Examination 
in predicting general intellectual abilities.

Sugarman MA(1), Axelrod BN.

Author information:
(1)*John D. Dingell Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Detroit, 
Michigan †Wayne State University, Department of Psychology, Detroit, Michigan.

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether scores from 2 commonly used cognitive screening 
tests can help predict general intellectual functioning in older adults.
BACKGROUND: Cutoff scores for determining cognitive impairment have been 
validated for both the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) and the Mini-Mental 
State Examination (MMSE). However, less is known about how the 2 measures relate 
to general intellectual functioning as measured by the Wechsler Adult 
Intelligence Scale-Fourth Edition (WAIS-IV).
METHODS: A sample of 186 older adults referred for neuropsychological assessment 
completed the MoCA, MMSE, and WAIS-IV. Regression equations determined how 
accurately the screening measures could predict the WAIS-IV Full Scale 
Intelligence Quotient (FSIQ). We also determined how predictive the MoCA and 
MMSE were when combined with 2 premorbid estimates of FSIQ: the Test of 
Premorbid Functioning (TOPF) (a reading test of phonetically irregular words) 
and a predicted TOPF score based on demographic variables.
RESULTS: MoCA and MMSE both correlated moderately with WAIS-IV FSIQ. 
Hierarchical regression models containing the MoCA or MMSE combined with TOPF 
scores accounted for 58% and 49%, respectively, of the variance in obtained 
FSIQ. Both regression equations accurately estimated FSIQ to within 10 points in 
>75% of the sample.
CONCLUSIONS: Both the MoCA and MMSE provide reasonable estimates of FSIQ. 
Prediction improves when these measures are combined with other estimates of 
FSIQ. We provide 4 equations designed to help clinicians interpret these 
screening measures.

DOI: 10.1097/WNN.0000000000000035
PMID: 25237745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1259. Brain Cogn. 2014 Nov;91:71-8. doi: 10.1016/j.bandc.2014.08.006. Epub 2014 Sep 
29.

Sex differences in the IQ-white matter microstructure relationship: a DTI study.

Dunst B(1), Benedek M(2), Koschutnig K(3), Jauk E(4), Neubauer AC(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Graz, Austria. Electronic address: 
beate.dunst@uni-graz.at.
(2)Department of Psychology, University of Graz, Austria. Electronic address: 
mathias.benedek@uni-graz.at.
(3)Department of Psychology, University of Graz, Austria. Electronic address: 
karl.koschutnig@uni-graz.at.
(4)Department of Psychology, University of Graz, Austria. Electronic address: 
emanuel.jauk@uni-graz.at.
(5)Department of Psychology, University of Graz, Austria. Electronic address: 
aljoscha.neubauer@uni-graz.at.

Sex differences in the relationship between general intelligence and brain 
structure are a topic of increasing research interest. Early studies focused 
mainly on gray and white matter differences using voxel-based morphometry, while 
more recent studies investigated neural fiber tracts using diffusion tensor 
imaging (DTI) to analyze the white matter microstructure. In this study we used 
tract-based spatial statistics (TBSS) on DTI to test how intelligence is 
associated with brain diffusion indices and to see whether this relationship 
differs between men and women. 63 Men and women divided into groups of lower and 
higher intelligence were selected. Whole-brain DTI scans were analyzed using 
TBSS calculating maps of fractional anisotropy (FA), radial diffusivity (RD), 
and axial diffusivity (AD). The results reveal that the white matter 
microstructure differs between individuals as a function of intelligence and 
sex. In men, higher intelligence was related to higher FA and lower RD in the 
corpus callosum. In women, in contrast, intelligence was not related to the 
white matter microstructure. The higher values of FA and lower values of RD 
suggest that intelligence is associated with higher myelination and/or a higher 
number of axons particularly in men. This microstructural difference in the 
corpus callosum may increase cognitive functioning by reducing inter-hemispheric 
transfer time and thus account for more efficient brain functioning in men.

Copyright © 2014 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bandc.2014.08.006
PMCID: PMC4245721
PMID: 25238623 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1260. Orphanet J Rare Dis. 2014 Sep 20;9:138. doi: 10.1186/s13023-014-0138-0.

Simpson-Golabi-Behmel syndrome types I and II.

Tenorio J, Arias P, Martínez-Glez V, Santos F, García-Miñaur S, Nevado J, 
Lapunzina P.

Simpson-Golabi-Behmel syndrome (SGBS) is a rare overgrowth syndrome clinically 
characterized by multiple congenital abnormalities, pre/postnatal overgrowth, 
distinctive craniofacial features, macrocephaly, and organomegaly. Abnormalities 
of the skeletal system, heart, central nervous system, kidney, and 
gastrointestinal tract may also be observed. Intellectual disability, early 
motor milestones and speech delay are sometimes present; however, there are a 
considerable number of individuals with normal intelligence.

El Síndrome de Simpson-Golabi-Behmel (SSGB) es un síndrome de sobrecrecimiento 
raro, que se caracteriza clínicamente por múltiples anomalías congénitas, 
sobrecrecimiento pre y post natal, rasgos craneofaciales distintivos, 
macrocefalia y organomegalia. Otras características que pueden presentar estos 
pacientes incluyen anomalías en el aparato esquelético, el corazón, el sistema 
nervioso central, el riñón y el tracto gastrointestinal. También pueden 
presentar discapacidad intelectual, retraso motor precoz y retraso en el habla, 
aunque en su mayoría, estos individuos presentan una inteligencia dentro de los 
límites normales. Los reordenamientos genómicos y las mutaciones puntuales que 
incluyen el gen GPC3 (“Glypican-3 gene”) localizado en la región cromosómica 
Xq26, se han asociado con la aparición del SSGB. Ocasionalmente, estos 
reordenamientos genómicos pueden incluir el gen GPC4. Los glipicanos son 
proteoglicanos de heparán sulfato que actúan controlando el crecimiento y 
división celular. Aunque se ha descrito una forma letal de este síndrome 
(denominada SSGB tipo II) en esta revisión sólo analizamos la forma clásica de 
este síndrome y sólo comentaremos algunos aspectos del SSGB tipo II. En este 
trabajo se presenta una revisión de todos los aspectos clínicos y moleculares de 
este síndrome, actualizando algunos aspectos y además se sugiere un esquema de 
seguimiento de estos pacientes por parte de genetistas y médicos de atención 
primaria.

DOI: 10.1186/s13023-014-0138-0
PMCID: PMC4254265
PMID: 25238977 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1261. Early Hum Dev. 2014 Oct;90(10):613-9. doi: 10.1016/j.earlhumdev.2014.07.010. 
Epub 2014 Aug 20.

Predicting the outcome of specific language impairment at five years of age 
through early developmental assessment in preterm infants.

Woods PL(1), Rieger I(2), Wocadlo C(3), Gordon A(2).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Newborn Care, Royal Prince Alfred Hospital for Mothers and Babies, 
Sydney, NSW 2050, Australia. Electronic address: 
patricia.woods@sswahs.nsw.gov.au.
(2)Centre for Newborn Care, Royal Prince Alfred Hospital for Mothers and Babies, 
Sydney, NSW 2050, Australia; The University of Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia.
(3)Centre for Newborn Care, Royal Prince Alfred Hospital for Mothers and Babies, 
Sydney, NSW 2050, Australia.

BACKGROUND: Very preterm infants (<30 weeks of gestation) are at increased risk 
of specific language impairment and systematic developmental follow-up is 
essential for the provision of targeted early intervention.
AIMS: To define the predictive value of early language testing and stability of 
language development, and perinatal and demographic risk factors for the 
diagnosis of SLI at 5 years, in a cohort of preterm infants.
STUDY DESIGN: We used a retrospective hospital based cohort study.
SUBJECTS: Preterm infants <30 weeks of gestation, were cared for in NICU at 
RPAH, between 2004 and 2007, and prospectively enrolled in developmental 
follow-up. Standardised developmental assessment was done at 3 years utilising 
the Bayley Scales of Infant and Toddler Development-III and the Wechsler 
Preschool and Primary Scale of Intelligence-III was done at 5 years.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Predictive value and stability of early language testing were 
assessed with respect to SLI at 5 years, using measures of diagnostic accuracy 
and kappa values. Multivariate logistic regression was performed during the 
distribution of perinatal and demographic risk factors for SLI.
RESULTS: One-in-five met diagnostic criteria for SLI (19%, n=24). Limited 
diagnostic accuracy was found with early expressive language and the stability 
of language scores demonstrated only fair agreement (Cohen's κ .383). 
Multilingual status and extreme gestational age at 24-25 weeks were associated 
with a six-fold increased risk of SLI (OR 6.09, 95% CI 1.89-19.56; OR 6.09, 95% 
CI 1.28-29.0).
CONCLUSION: We defined a high incidence of SLI among our cohort, but only a 
limited diagnostic accuracy of early language testing. Multilingual status and 
extreme prematurity were independent risk factors for SLI. It remains imperative 
to perform continued developmental assessments beyond pre-school age to identify 
language impairment with greater accuracy.

Crown Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.earlhumdev.2014.07.010
PMID: 25239156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1262. J Med Pract Manage. 2014 Jul-Aug;30(1):31-4.

Leveraging business intelligence to make better decisions: Part III.

Reimers M.

Accounts receivable and scheduling datasets have been available to medical 
practices since the 1990s, and discrete medical records data have become 
available over the past few years. But the frustrations that arose from the 
difficulties in reporting data grew with each keyboard stroke and mouse click. 
With reporting mandated to meet changing payment models, measuring quality of 
care and medical outcomes, practice managers must find more efficient and 
effective methods of extracting and compiling the data they have in their 
systems. Taming the reporting beast and learning to effectively apply business 
intelligence (BI) tools will become an expected managerial proficiency in the 
next few years. Practice managers' roles are changing quickly, and they will be 
required to understand the meaning of their practice's data and craft ways to 
leverage that data toward a strategic advantage.

PMID: 25241447 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1263. Sch Psychol Q. 2014 Dec;29(4):536-552. doi: 10.1037/spq0000009. Epub 2014 Sep 
22.

Exploratory and confirmatory factor analyses of the WISC-IV with gifted 
students.

Rowe EW(1), Dandridge J(1), Pawlush A(1), Thompson DF(1), Ferrier DE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology.

These 2 studies investigated the factor structure of the Wechsler Intelligence 
Scale for Children-4th edition (WISC-IV; Wechsler, 2003a) with exploratory 
factor analysis (EFA; Study 1) and confirmatory factor analysis (CFA; Study 2) 
among 2 independent samples of gifted students. The EFA sample consisted of 225 
children who were referred for a cognitive assessment as part of the application 
for gifted programming in their schools. The CFA sample consisted of 181 
students who were tested the following year. All students included in the 
analyses were either accepted to school-based gifted programs following the 
assessment or were already participating in one. Across the 2 studies, there 
were approximately equal numbers of boys (205) and girls (201) with a mean age 
of 8-years-old. The mean composite scores for both samples varied from high 
average to superior and evidenced substantial differences among the index 
scores. In the EFA, the 2-, 3-, 4-, and 5-factor solutions were considered. The 
first 3 models, as well as an additional model reflecting the Verbal and 
Performance (V-P) IQ scores from previous versions of the WISC, were then 
compared using CFA. The CFA fit indices and parameter estimates supported the 
4-factor, first-order WISC-IV model. This is the measurement model that includes 
the 4 index scores. Parameter estimates for the higher-order model reflecting g 
suggested that combining factors into a single, overarching score may not be the 
best way to represent the varying cognitive scores of gifted students.

PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved

DOI: 10.1037/spq0000009
PMID: 25243468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1264. J Appl Psychol. 2015 Mar;100(2):298-342. doi: 10.1037/a0037681. Epub 2014 Sep 
22.

Why does self-reported emotional intelligence predict job performance? A 
meta-analytic investigation of mixed EI.

Joseph DL(1), Jin J(2), Newman DA(2), O'Boyle EH(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology.
(2)Department of Psychology, University of Illinois at Urbana- Champaign.
(3)Tippie College of Business, The University of Iowa.

Recent empirical reviews have claimed a surprisingly strong relationship between 
job performance and self-reported emotional intelligence (also commonly called 
trait EI or mixed EI), suggesting self-reported/mixed EI is one of the best 
known predictors of job performance (e.g., ρ = .47; Joseph & Newman, 2010b). 
Results further suggest mixed EI can robustly predict job performance beyond 
cognitive ability and Big Five personality traits (Joseph & Newman, 2010b; 
O'Boyle, Humphrey, Pollack, Hawver, & Story, 2011). These criterion-related 
validity results are problematic, given the paucity of evidence and the 
questionable construct validity of mixed EI measures themselves. In the current 
research, we update and reevaluate existing evidence for mixed EI, in light of 
prior work regarding the content of mixed EI measures. Results of the current 
meta-analysis demonstrate that (a) the content of mixed EI measures strongly 
overlaps with a set of well-known psychological constructs (i.e., ability EI, 
self-efficacy, and self-rated performance, in addition to Conscientiousness, 
Emotional Stability, Extraversion, and general mental ability; multiple R = 
.79), (b) an updated estimate of the meta-analytic correlation between mixed EI 
and supervisor-rated job performance is ρ = .29, and (c) the mixed EI-job 
performance relationship becomes nil (β = -.02) after controlling for the set of 
covariates listed above. Findings help to establish the construct validity of 
mixed EI measures and further support an intuitive theoretical explanation for 
the uncommonly high association between mixed EI and job performance--mixed EI 
instruments assess a combination of ability EI and self-perceptions, in addition 
to personality and cognitive ability.

PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2015 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/a0037681
PMID: 25243996 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1265. Res Dev Disabil. 2014 Dec;35(12):3582-90. doi: 10.1016/j.ridd.2014.08.034. Epub 
2014 Sep 20.

Is child intelligence associated with parent and sibling intelligence in 
individuals with developmental disorders? An investigation in youth with 22q11.2 
deletion (velo-cardio-facial) syndrome.

Olszewski AK(1), Radoeva PD(2), Fremont W(2), Kates WR(2), Antshel KM(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Syracuse University, 430 Huntington Hall, Syracuse, 
NY 13244, United States; Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, SUNY 
- Upstate Medical University, 750 E. Adams St., Syracuse, NY 13210, United 
States. Electronic address: akolszew@syr.edu.
(2)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, SUNY - Upstate Medical 
University, 750 E. Adams St., Syracuse, NY 13210, United States.
(3)Department of Psychology, Syracuse University, 430 Huntington Hall, Syracuse, 
NY 13244, United States; Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, SUNY 
- Upstate Medical University, 750 E. Adams St., Syracuse, NY 13210, United 
States.

Children with 22q11.2 deletion syndrome (22q11DS), a copy-number variation (CNV) 
genetic disorder, demonstrate a great deal of variability in IQ scores and are 
at particular risk for cognitive difficulties, with up to 45% experiencing 
intellectual disability. This study explored the IQ relationship between 
individuals with 22q11DS, their parents and their siblings. Participants 
included individuals with 22q11DS, unaffected siblings and community controls, 
who participated in a longitudinal study of 22q11DS. Significant associations 
between proband and relative (parent, sibling) IQ scores were found. Results 
suggest that the cognitive functioning of first-degree relatives could be a 
useful marker of general genetic background and/or environmental effects, and 
can explain some of the large phenotypic variability in 22q11DS. These findings 
underscore the importance of including siblings and parents in studies of 
22q11DS whenever possible.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ridd.2014.08.034
PMCID: PMC4253715
PMID: 25244692 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1266. Res Dev Disabil. 2014 Dec;35(12):3598-605. doi: 10.1016/j.ridd.2014.09.003. Epub 
2014 Sep 20.

Misleading face-based judgment of cognitive level in intellectual disability: 
the case of trisomy 21 (Down syndrome).

Enea-Drapeau C(1), Huguet P(2), Carlier M(3).

Author information:
(1)Aix Marseille Université, CNRS, LPC UMR 7290, Fédération de recherche 3C, 
13331 Marseille, France. Electronic address: claire.enea-drapeau@univ-amu.fr.
(2)Aix Marseille Université, CNRS, LPC UMR 7290, Fédération de recherche 3C, 
13331 Marseille, France. Electronic address: pascal.huguet@univ-amu.fr.
(3)Aix Marseille Université, CNRS, LPC UMR 7290, Fédération de recherche 3C, 
13331 Marseille, France. Electronic address: michele.carlier@univ-amu.fr.

People spontaneously use faces to make inferences about other's personality 
traits or abilities, which generally lead to invalid conclusions. Here, we show 
first evidence that perceived variations in the facial appearance of 20 children 
with trisomy 21 (t21) influence how they are perceived in terms of intelligence 
(or intellectual disability), the more "trisomic" faces being rated as less 
intelligent (or more intellectually disabled). Despite high degrees of 
inter-rater agreement (80 raters), these inferences were unrelated to 
individuals' actual test scores which were also unrelated to perceived facial 
appearance. All these findings indicate that social inferences about 
intelligence based on facial appearance are unreliable even in groups 
characterized by a genetic disorder such as t21.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ridd.2014.09.003
PMID: 25244694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1267. Seishin Shinkeigaku Zasshi. 2014;116(8):659-69.

[Clinical examination of 3 patients with delayed neuropsychiatric encephalopathy 
induced by carbon monoxide poisoning, who recovered from severe neurocognitive 
impairment by repetitive hyperbaric oxygen therapy].

[Article in Japanese]

Watanuki T, Matsubara T, Higuchi N, Higuchi F, Inoue K, Otsuchi H, Tsuruta R, 
Watanabe Y.

We performed hyperbaric oxygen (HBO) therapy for 3 patients with delayed 
neuropsychiatric encephalopathy induced by carbon monoxide (CO) poisoning. All 
patients were male and around 50 years old, and they had not received HBO 
therapy within 24 h after CO poisoning, even though they showed severe 
consciousness disturbance. In these patients, delayed neuropsychiatric 
encephalopathy appeared about 25 days after acute CO poisoning, and HBO therapy 
was initiated within 8 days after disease onset. Although the condition of 2 of 
the patients worsened initially, they showed significant improvement of 
neurocognitive impairment after 30 sessions of HBO therapy. The clinical courses 
of these patients suggest that the effect of HBO therapy can be evaluated after 
30 sessions. To evaluate the validity of the indices of the clinical effect of 
HBO therapy, we performed brain magnetic resonance imaging, single photon 
emission computed tomography, electroencephalography (EEG), and neurocognitive 
tests (HDS-R, and Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Revised or III). Our results 
showed that changes in EEG signals and neurocognitive tests were closely 
correlated with the patients' clinical courses.

PMID: 25244729 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1268. Schizophr Res. 2014 Nov;159(2-3):353-7. doi: 10.1016/j.schres.2014.09.006. Epub 
2014 Sep 20.

Associations between oxytocin receptor genotypes and social cognitive 
performance in individuals with schizophrenia.

Davis MC(1), Horan WP(1), Nurmi EL(2), Rizzo S(3), Li W(2), Sugar CA(4), Green 
MF(5).

Author information:
(1)UCLA Semel Institute for Neuroscience and Human Behavior, Los Angeles, CA, 
United States; VA Desert Pacific Mental Illness Research, Education, and 
Clinical Center, Los Angeles, CA, United States.
(2)UCLA Semel Institute for Neuroscience and Human Behavior, Los Angeles, CA, 
United States.
(3)Department of Biostatistics, UCLA Fielding School of Public Health, Los 
Angeles, CA, United States.
(4)UCLA Semel Institute for Neuroscience and Human Behavior, Los Angeles, CA, 
United States; Department of Biostatistics, UCLA Fielding School of Public 
Health, Los Angeles, CA, United States.
(5)UCLA Semel Institute for Neuroscience and Human Behavior, Los Angeles, CA, 
United States; VA Desert Pacific Mental Illness Research, Education, and 
Clinical Center, Los Angeles, CA, United States. Electronic address: 
mgreen@ucla.edu.

Individuals with schizophrenia often show substantial deficits in social 
cognitive abilities, which are strongly associated with social functioning. To 
advance our understanding of the genetic variation that is associated with 
social cognitive deficits in schizophrenia, we genotyped 74 schizophrenia 
outpatients who completed social cognitive performance measures assessing 
mentalizing, social perception, and emotional intelligence, as well as clinical 
symptoms. We assessed seven single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of the 
oxytocin receptor (OXTR) previously found to show replicable associations with 
socio-emotional processes. For one of the seven SNPs, rs2268493, the 'T' allele 
was significantly associated with poorer performance on a composite social 
cognition index, as well as specific tests of mentalizing and social perception. 
None of the SNPs were associated with clinical symptoms. Though the sample size 
is small, these findings provide initial support for the involvement of genetic 
variants of the OXTR in social cognitive impairments in schizophrenia.

Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.schres.2014.09.006
PMCID: PMC4254299
PMID: 25244972 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest Potential Conflicts of 
Interest: None of the authors of this manuscript have conflicts of interest to 
disclose.


1269. Biomed Res Int. 2014;2014:960395. doi: 10.1155/2014/960395. Epub 2014 Aug 28.

Altered regional homogeneity in rolandic epilepsy: a resting-state FMRI study.

Tang YL(1), Ji GJ(2), Yu Y(3), Wang J(2), Wang ZJ(1), Zang YF(2), Liao W(2), 
Ding MP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, the Second Affiliated Hospital of Medial College, 
Zhejiang University, No. 88 Jiefang Road, Hangzhou 310009, China.
(2)Center for Cognition and Brain Disorders and the Affiliated Hospital, 
Hangzhou Normal University, Hangzhou 310015, China ; Zhejiang Key Laboratory for 
Research in Assessment of Cognitive Impairments, Hangzhou 310015, China.
(3)Department of Neurology, the Second Affiliated Hospital of Medial College, 
Zhejiang University, No. 88 Jiefang Road, Hangzhou 310009, China ; Center for 
Cognition and Brain Disorders and the Affiliated Hospital, Hangzhou Normal 
University, Hangzhou 310015, China ; Zhejiang Key Laboratory for Research in 
Assessment of Cognitive Impairments, Hangzhou 310015, China.

Children with rolandic epilepsy (RE) are often associated with cognitive 
deficits and behavioral problems. Findings from neurophysiological and 
neuroimaging studies in RE have now demonstrated dysfunction not only in 
rolandic focus, but also in distant neuronal circuits. Little is known, however, 
about whether there is distributed abnormal spontaneous brain activity in RE. 
Using resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (RS-fMRI), the present 
study aimed to determine whether children with RE show abnormal local 
synchronization during resting state and, if so, whether these changes could be 
associated with the behavioral/clinical characteristics of RE. Regional 
homogeneity (ReHo) in children with RE (n = 30) and healthy children (n = 20) 
was computed on resting-state functional MRI data. In comparison with healthy 
children, children with RE showed increased ReHo in the central, premotor, and 
prefrontal regions, while they showed decreased ReHo in bilateral orbitofrontal 
cortex and temporal pole. In addition, the ReHo value in the left orbitofrontal 
cortex negatively was corrected with performance intelligence quotient in the 
children with RE. The aberrant local synchronization, not strictly related to 
primary site of the typical rolandic focus, indicates the 
neuropathophysiological mechanism of RE. The study findings may shed new light 
on the understanding of neural correlation of neuropsychological deficiencies in 
the children with RE.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/960395
PMCID: PMC4163434
PMID: 25247197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1270. Neuropsychobiology. 2014;70(1):44-51. doi: 10.1159/000365992. Epub 2014 Sep 19.

Crack cocaine users show differences in genotype frequencies of the 3' UTR 
variable number of tandem repeats of the dopamine transporter gene 
(DAT1/SLC6A3).

Stolf AR(1), Szobot CM, Halpern R, Akutagava-Martins GC, Müller D, Guimaraes LS, 
Kessler FH, Pechansky F, Roman T.

Author information:
(1)Center for Drug and Alcohol Research, Hospital de Clínicas de Porto Alegre, 
Federal University of Rio Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre, Brazil.

BACKGROUND: Due to the mechanism of action of the dopamine transporter (DAT) in 
drug addiction, the DAT1 gene is a potential candidate for molecular studies. 
This paper aims to compare the prevalence of allele and genotype frequencies 
created by the 3' UTR variable number of tandem repeats (VNTR) of this gene 
between crack cocaine users and controls.
METHODS: A cross-sectional sample of 237 current adult crack cocaine abusers or 
dependents (DSM-IV TR criteria) from in- and outpatient clinics in southern 
Brazil and 205 community controls were compared. The subjects were evaluated 
using the Adult ADHD Self-Report Scale, the Mini-International Neuropsychiatric 
Interview - short version, and the Wechsler Intelligence Scale. DNA samples were 
genotyped for the DAT1 3' VNTR.
RESULTS: Logistic regression analysis was performed to compare the frequency of 
the 10.10 genotype (the putative risk genotype) to those of other genotypes. A 
significant difference (p = 0.04, OR = 1.758, CI = 1.026-3.012) indicating an 
increased frequency of the 10.10 genotype in the cases (59.9%) compared to the 
controls (49.3%) was verified using clinical and demographic covariates.
CONCLUSIONS: This is one of the first genetic association studies on crack 
cocaine users in the literature. The results suggest an influence of the DAT1 
gene, namely the 3' VNTR 10.10 genotype. However, more analyses will confirm and 
clarify its contribution as a possible risk factor for crack cocaine dependence.

DOI: 10.1159/000365992
PMID: 25247548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1271. Transl Psychiatry. 2014 Sep 23;4(9):e449. doi: 10.1038/tp.2014.89.

Are APOE ɛ genotype and TOMM40 poly-T repeat length associations with cognitive 
ageing mediated by brain white matter tract integrity?

Lyall DM(1), Harris SE(2), Bastin ME(3), Muñoz Maniega S(3), Murray C(4), Lutz 
MW(5), Saunders AM(5), Roses AD(6), Valdés Hernández Mdel C(3), Royle NA(3), 
Starr JM(7), Porteous DJ(2), Wardlaw JM(3), Deary IJ(4).

Author information:
(1)1] Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology (CCACE), University 
of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK [2] Brain Research Imaging Centre, Division of 
Neuroimaging Sciences, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK [3] Department of 
Psychology, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK [4] Medical Genetics Section, 
University of Edinburgh Centre for Genomics and Experimental Medicine and MRC 
Institute of Genetics and Molecular Medicine, Western General Hospital, Crewe 
Road, Edinburgh, UK.
(2)1] Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology (CCACE), University 
of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK [2] Medical Genetics Section, University of 
Edinburgh Centre for Genomics and Experimental Medicine and MRC Institute of 
Genetics and Molecular Medicine, Western General Hospital, Crewe Road, 
Edinburgh, UK.
(3)1] Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology (CCACE), University 
of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK [2] Brain Research Imaging Centre, Division of 
Neuroimaging Sciences, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK [3] Department of 
Neuroimaging Sciences, Scottish Imaging Network, A Platform for Scientific 
Excellence (SINAPSE) Collaboration, The University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.
(4)1] Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology (CCACE), University 
of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK [2] Department of Psychology, University of 
Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.
(5)Joseph & Kathleen Bryan Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Department of 
Neurology, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC, USA.
(6)1] Joseph & Kathleen Bryan Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Department of 
Neurology, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC, USA [2] Zinfandel 
Pharmaceuticals, Durham, NC, USA.
(7)1] Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology (CCACE), University 
of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK [2] Alzheimer Scotland Dementia Research Centre, 
Edinburgh, UK.

Genetic polymorphisms in the APOE ɛ and TOMM40 '523' poly-T repeat gene loci 
have been associated with significantly increased risk of Alzheimer's disease. 
This study investigated the independent effects of these polymorphisms on human 
cognitive ageing, and the extent to which nominally significant associations 
with cognitive ageing were mediated by previously reported genetic associations 
with brain white matter tract integrity in this sample. Most participants in the 
Lothian Birth Cohort 1936 completed a reasoning-type intelligence test at age 11 
years, and detailed cognitive/physical assessments and structural diffusion 
tensor brain magnetic resonance imaging at a mean age of 72.70 years 
(s.d.=0.74). Participants were genotyped for APOE ɛ2/ɛ3/ɛ4 status and TOMM40 523 
poly-T repeat length. Data were available from 758-814 subjects for cognitive 
analysis, and 522-543 for mediation analysis with brain imaging data. APOE 
genotype was significantly associated with performance on several different 
tests of cognitive ability, including general factors of intelligence, 
information processing speed and memory (raw P-values all<0.05), independently 
of childhood IQ and vascular disease history. Formal tests of mediation showed 
that several significant APOE-cognitive ageing associations--particularly those 
related to tests of information processing speed--were partially mediated by 
white matter tract integrity. TOMM40 523 genotype was not associated with 
cognitive ageing. A range of brain phenotypes are likely to form the anatomical 
basis for significant associations between APOE genotype and cognitive ageing, 
including white matter tract microstructural integrity.

DOI: 10.1038/tp.2014.89
PMCID: PMC4203017
PMID: 25247594 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1272. IEEE Comput Graph Appl. 2014 Sep-Oct;34(5):26-34. doi: 10.1109/MCG.2014.104.

Visual business ecosystem intelligence: lessons from the field.

Basole RC.

Macroscopic insight into business ecosystems is becoming increasingly important. 
With the emergence of new digital business data, opportunities exist to develop 
rich, interactive visual-analytics tools. Georgia Institute of Technology 
researchers have been developing and implementing visual business ecosystem 
intelligence tools in corporate settings. This article discusses the challenges 
they faced, the lessons learned, and opportunities for future research.

DOI: 10.1109/MCG.2014.104
PMID: 25248197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1273. IEEE Comput Graph Appl. 2014 Sep-Oct;34(5):58-69. doi: 10.1109/MCG.2014.61.

Business intelligence from social media: a study from the VAST Box Office 
Challenge.

Lu Y, Wang F, Maciejewski R.

With over 16 million tweets per hour, 600 new blog posts per minute, and 400 
million active users on Facebook, businesses have begun searching for ways to 
turn real-time consumer-based posts into actionable intelligence. The goal is to 
extract information from this noisy, unstructured data and use it for trend 
analysis and prediction. Current practices support the idea that visual 
analytics (VA) can help enable the effective analysis of such data. However, 
empirical evidence demonstrating the effectiveness of a VA solution is still 
lacking. A proposed VA toolkit extracts data from Bitly and Twitter to predict 
movie revenue and ratings. Results from the 2013 VAST Box Office Challenge 
demonstrate the benefit of an interactive environment for predictive analysis, 
compared to a purely statistical modeling approach. The VA approach used by the 
toolkit is generalizable to other domains involving social media data, such as 
sales forecasting and advertisement analysis.

DOI: 10.1109/MCG.2014.61
PMID: 25248200 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1274. Age Ageing. 2015 Jan;44(1):59-65. doi: 10.1093/ageing/afu108. Epub 2014 Sep 23.

Cognitive consequences of overweight and obesity in the ninth decade of life?

Aslan AK(1), Starr JM(2), Pattie A(3), Deary I(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Karolinska Institutet, 
Stockholm 17177, Sweden Institute of Gerontology, School of Health Sciences, Box 
1026, Jönköping 551 11, Sweden.
(2)Geriatric Medicine, University of Edinburgh, Royal Victoria Hospital, 
Craigleith Road, Edinburgh EH4 2DN, UK Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive 
Epidemiology, Department of Psychology, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.
(3)Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, Department of 
Psychology, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.

BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVES: the association between late-life obesity and late-life 
cognitive abilities is poorly understood. We studied the association between 
body mass index (BMI) and cognitive change in longitudinal population-based 
study spanning over the ninth decade of life.
SUBJECTS/METHODS: in total, 475 participants free of dementia at baseline from 
the Lothian Birth Cohort 1921 (mean age: 79.1 years, SD: 0.6) were included. 
Height and weight were assessed at baseline. BMI was calculated as kg/m(2). 
Cognitive abilities were assessed at age ∼11 years and at age ∼79, ∼83, ∼87 and 
∼90 years.
RESULTS: latent growth models showed that men being overweight and obese had a 
0.65 (SD: 0.3) and 1.10 (SD: 0.5) points less steep decline in general cognitive 
ability (as measured by the Moray House Test) for each year than people of 
normal weight. These associations were to some extent confounded by childhood 
intelligence. No other association between BMI and cognition was significant, 
either for men or women. People who were obese in old age had significantly 
lower childhood intelligence (m = 43.6, SD: 1.3) than people who were normal in 
weight (m = 47.0, SD: 0.8) and persons being overweight (m = 47.5, SD: 0.8), F 
(472, 3) = 3.2, P = 0.043.
CONCLUSIONS: the current study shows weak or no evidence for an association 
between BMI in old age and cognitive function, especially not when childhood 
intelligence is controlled for. Lower intelligence at the age of 11 years 
predicted obesity at the age of 79 years.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the British 
Geriatrics Society. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please email: 
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/afu108
PMID: 25249169 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1275. Arch Dis Child Fetal Neonatal Ed. 2015 Jan;100(1):F11-6. doi: 
10.1136/archdischild-2014-306496. Epub 2014 Sep 23.

Cognitive outcome of early intervention in preterms at 7 and 9 years of age: a 
randomised controlled trial.

Hauglann L(1), Handegaard BH(2), Ulvund SE(3), Nordhov M(4), Rønning JA(5), 
Kaaresen PI(4).

Author information:
(1)Division of Child and Adolescent Health, Department of Child and Adolescent 
Psychiatry, University Hospital of North Norway, Tromsø, Norway.
(2)Regional Centre for Child and Youth Mental Health and Child Welfare, The 
Arctic University of Norway, Tromsø, Norway.
(3)Regional Centre for Child and Youth Mental Health and Child Welfare, The 
Arctic University of Norway, Tromsø, Norway Department of Educational Research, 
University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway.
(4)Pediatric Department, University Hospital of North Norway, Tromsø, Norway 
Pediatric Research Group, Faculty of Health Sciences, The Arctic University of 
Norway, Tromsø, Norway.
(5)Pediatric Research Group, Faculty of Health Sciences, The Arctic University 
of Norway, Tromsø, Norway.

Comment in
    J Pediatr. 2015 Mar;166(3):779.

OBJECTIVE: Examine the effect of an early intervention programme on cognitive 
outcome at 7 and 9 years in children with birth weight (BW) <2000 g.
DESIGN: A randomised controlled trial of a modified version of the Mother-Infant 
Transaction Program.
SETTING: A single tertiary neonatal unit.
PATIENTS: 146 infants were randomised into a preterm control group (74) or a 
preterm intervention group (72).
INTERVENTIONS: The intervention consisted of eight sessions shortly before 
discharge and four home visits by specially trained nurses focusing on the 
infants' unique characteristics, temperament, developmental potential and the 
interaction between infants and parents.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Outcomes were assessed with the Wechsler Intelligence 
Scale for Children (WISC-III).
RESULTS: Mean BWs were 1396 (429) g in the intervention group and 1381(436) g in 
the control group. After adjusting for the possible clustering effects of twin 
pairs and maternal education, there were no significant differences in WISC-III 
scores at age 7 or 9. The mean difference was 4.1 points (95% CI -1.5 to 9.8 
points) in favour of the intervention group at 7 years and 2.2 points (95% CI 
-3.4 to 7.6 points) at 9 years. At 7 years, a 6.8 points difference in the 
Verbal Comprehension Index (95% CI 0.5 to 13.0 points) was found in favour of 
the intervention group. Loss to follow-up at age 7 and 9 was 11% and 14%, 
respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: This intervention programme did not have a sustained significant 
effect on overall cognitive outcomes in preterm children at age 7 and 9.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: The trial has been registered at 
http://www.clinicaltrials.gov (identifier NCT00222456).

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not 
already granted under a licence) please go to 
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

DOI: 10.1136/archdischild-2014-306496
PMID: 25249191 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1276. Front Behav Neurosci. 2014 Sep 9;8:294. doi: 10.3389/fnbeh.2014.00294. 
eCollection 2014.

Navigating to new frontiers in behavioral neuroscience: traditional 
neuropsychological tests predict human performance on a rodent-inspired 
radial-arm maze.

Mennenga SE(1), Baxter LC(2), Grunfeld IS(1), Brewer GA(3), Aiken LS(3), 
Engler-Chiurazzi EB(1), Camp BW(1), Acosta JI(1), Braden BB(4), Schaefer KR(1), 
Gerson JE(1), Lavery CN(1), Tsang CW(1), Hewitt LT(1), Kingston ML(1), Koebele 
SV(1), Patten KJ(3), Ball BH(3), McBeath MK(3), Bimonte-Nelson HA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Arizona State University , Tempe, AZ, USA ; Arizona 
Alzheimer's Consortium , Phoenix, AZ, USA.
(2)Arizona Alzheimer's Consortium , Phoenix, AZ, USA ; Barrow Neurological 
Institute, St. Joseph's Hospital and Medical Center , Phoenix, AZ, USA.
(3)Department of Psychology, Arizona State University , Tempe, AZ, USA.
(4)Department of Psychology, Arizona State University , Tempe, AZ, USA ; Arizona 
Alzheimer's Consortium , Phoenix, AZ, USA ; Barrow Neurological Institute, St. 
Joseph's Hospital and Medical Center , Phoenix, AZ, USA.

We constructed an 11-arm, walk-through, human radial-arm maze (HRAM) as a 
translational instrument to compare existing methodology in the areas of rodent 
and human learning and memory research. The HRAM, utilized here, serves as an 
intermediary test between the classic rat radial-arm maze (RAM) and standard 
human neuropsychological and cognitive tests. We show that the HRAM is a useful 
instrument to examine working memory ability, explore the relationships between 
rodent and human memory and cognition models, and evaluate factors that 
contribute to human navigational ability. One-hundred-and-fifty-seven 
participants were tested on the HRAM, and scores were compared to performance on 
a standard cognitive battery focused on episodic memory, working memory 
capacity, and visuospatial ability. We found that errors on the HRAM increased 
as working memory demand became elevated, similar to the pattern typically seen 
in rodents, and that for this task, performance appears similar to Miller's 
classic description of a processing-inclusive human working memory capacity of 7 
± 2 items. Regression analysis revealed that measures of working memory capacity 
and visuospatial ability accounted for a large proportion of variance in HRAM 
scores, while measures of episodic memory and general intelligence did not serve 
as significant predictors of HRAM performance. We present the HRAM as a novel 
instrument for measuring navigational behavior in humans, as is traditionally 
done in basic science studies evaluating rodent learning and memory, thus 
providing a useful tool to help connect and translate between human and rodent 
models of cognitive functioning.

DOI: 10.3389/fnbeh.2014.00294
PMCID: PMC4158810
PMID: 25249951


1277. Front Hum Neurosci. 2014 Sep 8;8:665. doi: 10.3389/fnhum.2014.00665. eCollection 
2014.

Transcranial direct current stimulation facilitates cognitive multi-task 
performance differentially depending on anode location and subtask.

Scheldrup M(1), Greenwood PM(1), McKendrick R(1), Strohl J(1), Bikson M(2), Alam 
M(2), McKinley RA(3), Parasuraman R(1).

Author information:
(1)Arch Lab, Department of Psychology, George Mason University Fairfax, VA, USA.
(2)Neural Engineering Group, Department of Biomedical Engineering, The City 
College of New York of CUNY New York, NY, USA.
(3)711th HPW, Warfighter Interfaces Division, Applied Neuroscience Branch, WPAFB 
Wright-Patterson AFB, OH, USA.

There is a need to facilitate acquisition of real world cognitive multi-tasks 
that require long periods of training (e.g., air traffic control, intelligence 
analysis, medicine). Non-invasive brain stimulation-specifically transcranial 
Direct Current Stimulation (tDCS)-has promise as a method to speed multi-task 
training. We hypothesized that during acquisition of the complex multi-task 
Space Fortress, subtasks that require focused attention on ship control would 
benefit from tDCS aimed at the dorsal attention network while subtasks that 
require redirection of attention would benefit from tDCS aimed at the right 
hemisphere ventral attention network. We compared effects of 30 min prefrontal 
and parietal stimulation to right and left hemispheres on subtask performance 
during the first 45 min of training. The strongest effects both overall and for 
ship flying (control and velocity subtasks) were seen with a right parietal (C4, 
reference to left shoulder) montage, shown by modeling to induce an electric 
field that includes nodes in both dorsal and ventral attention networks. This is 
consistent with the re-orienting hypothesis that the ventral attention network 
is activated along with the dorsal attention network if a new, task-relevant 
event occurs while visuospatial attention is focused (Corbetta et al., 2008). No 
effects were seen with anodes over sites that stimulated only dorsal (C3) or 
only ventral (F10) attention networks. The speed subtask (update memory for 
symbols) benefited from an F9 anode over left prefrontal cortex. These results 
argue for development of tDCS as a training aid in real world settings where 
multi-tasking is critical.

DOI: 10.3389/fnhum.2014.00665
PMCID: PMC4157612
PMID: 25249958


1278. Front Psychol. 2014 Sep 9;5:962. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.00962. eCollection 
2014.

Bilingual advantages in executive functioning: problems in convergent validity, 
discriminant validity, and the identification of the theoretical constructs.

Paap KR(1), Sawi O(2).

Author information:
(1)Language Attention and Cognitive Engineering Lab, Department of Psychology, 
San Francisco State University San Francisco, CA, USA.
(2)Language Attention and Cognitive Engineering Lab, Department of Psychology, 
San Francisco State University San Francisco, CA, USA ; Department of 
Psychology, University of Connecticut Storrs, CT, USA.

A sample of 58 bilingual and 62 monolingual university students completed four 
tasks commonly used to test for bilingual advantages in executive functioning 
(EF): antisaccade, attentional network test, Simon, and color-shape switching. 
Across the four tasks, 13 different indices were derived that are assumed to 
reflect individual differences in inhibitory control, monitoring, or switching. 
The effects of bilingualism on the 13 measures were explored by directly 
comparing the means of the two language groups and through regression analyses 
using a continuous measure of bilingualism and multiple demographic 
characteristics as predictors. Across the 13 different measures and two types of 
data analysis there were very few significant results and those that did occur 
supported a monolingual advantage. An equally important goal was to assess the 
convergent validity through cross-task correlations of indices assume to measure 
the same component of executive functioning. Most of the correlations using 
difference-score measures were non-significant and many near zero. Although 
modestly higher levels of convergent validity are sometimes reported, a review 
of the existing literature suggests that bilingual advantages (or disadvantages) 
may reflect task-specific differences that are unlikely to generalize to 
important general differences in EF. Finally, as cautioned by Salthouse, assumed 
measures of executive functioning may also be threatened by a lack of 
discriminant validity that separates individual or group differences in EF from 
those in general fluid intelligence or simple processing speed.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.00962
PMCID: PMC4158994
PMID: 25249988


1279. J Pediatr Neurosci. 2014 May;9(2):105-9. doi: 10.4103/1817-1745.139266.

Clinical characteristics and outcome of children with electrical status 
epilepticus during slow wave sleep.

Yilmaz S(1), Serdaroglu G(1), Akcay A(1), Gokben S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Division of Child Neurology, Ege University Medical 
Faculty, Izmir, Turkey.

BACKGROUND: Electrical status epilepticus in slow wave sleep (ESES) is a rare, 
age-related, self-limited disorder characterized as epilepsy with different 
seizure types, neuropsychological impairment in the form of global or selective 
regression of cognitive functions, motor impairment, and typical 
electroencephalographic (EEG) findings of continuous epileptic activity 
occupying 85% of nonrapid eye movement sleep.
AIMS: The aim is to examine the clinical and electrophysiological findings and 
treatment modalities of children with ESES and to evaluate the outcome of the 
disorder.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Fourteen patients with a diagnosis of electrical status 
epilepticus during slow wave sleep and followed-up at least 2 years were 
included.
STATISTICAL ANALYSIS: Pearson correlation test was used in the study.
RESULTS: Among the 14 patients, eight of them had normal mental development 
before ESES. Twelve of the patients mentioned cognitive impairment and decline 
in school performance during ESES. After ESES, seven patients had mental 
retardation in different severity. One of these patients was diagnosed with 
benign partial epilepsy of childhood with centrotemporal spikes and had normal 
intelligence quotient level prior to ESES. The diagnosis of ESES was made after 
newly occurred different seizure types in four of the patients while two of the 
previously known epileptic patients presented with only severe psychiatric 
impairment. Valproic acid and carbamazepine were the mostly frequently used 
drugs before the onset of ESES. After at least 2 years of follow-up, seven 
patients were seizure free, but still taking antiepileptic treatment. Five 
patients were seizure free, while two of them had ongoing seizures despite 
antiepileptic therapy.
CONCLUSION: ESES should be kept in mind in children with unexplained regression 
or stagnation of development associated with seizures or not. Sleep EEGs should 
be performed for timely diagnosis, proper treatment and prevention of permanent 
cognitive impairment.

DOI: 10.4103/1817-1745.139266
PMCID: PMC4166828
PMID: 25250061

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None declared.


1280. J Educ Health Promot. 2014 Aug 28;3:100. doi: 10.4103/2277-9531.139682. 
eCollection 2014.

The relationship between cultural intelligence and social compatibility in 
Isfahan University of Medical Sciences dormitories resident students.

Keyvanara M(1), Yarmohammadian MH(2), Soltani B(3).

Author information:
(1)Social Determinants of Health Research Center, Isfahan University of Medical 
Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
(2)Health Management and Economics Research Center, Isfahan University of 
Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
(3)Department of Health Services Management, School of Management and Medical 
Informatics, Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.

INTRODUCTION: Cultural intelligence and social compatibility are two acquired 
processes that their education and reinforcement between dormitory's students 
who have inter cultural interactions with each other can conclude with results 
that tension diminution, inter cultural contrast and conflict, social divisions 
and consequently healthy and peaceful relationships and governance and finally 
mental peace, and health are of its most important. Hence, the research has been 
occurring in order to the determination of cultural intelligence relationship 
with the social compatibility of Isfahan University of Medical Sciences 
dormitories resident students in 2012.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The research method is descriptive-correlation, and its 
population is composed of all Isfahan University of Medical Sciences dormitories 
resident students in 2012 that were totally 2500 persons. The two steps sampling 
method have been used, group sampling and random sampling has been occurring at 
first and second steps and totally 447 persons were selected. Research data were 
collected via Earley and Ang cultural intelligence questionnaire with 0.76 
Cronbach's alpha Coefficient and California social compatibility standard 
questionnaire with higher than 0.70 Cronbach's alpha factor. Questionnaire data 
have been analyzed with the SPSS software and results have been presented in the 
shape of descriptions and statistics.
FINDINGS: Results showed that there is a direct significant relationship (P < 
0.001) between cultural intelligence and the social adjustment in students 
living in Isfahan University of Medical Sciences dormitories and also there is a 
direct significant relationship in the level of (P < 0.05) between cognitive and 
motivational dimensions of cultural intelligence; however, there is no 
significant relationship between cognitive and behavioral dimensions of cultural 
intelligence and social adjustment (P > 0.05).
CONCLUSION: Cultural intelligence and cognitive and motivational addition in 
dimensions of students living in Isfahan University of Medical Sciences 
dormitories increase their social integration, therefore, cultural intelligence 
and social adjustment of students can be increased through planning and we can 
try for their mental health by this way.

DOI: 10.4103/2277-9531.139682
PMCID: PMC4165095
PMID: 25250366

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None declared


1281. Kidney Int. 2015 Apr;87(4):800-6. doi: 10.1038/ki.2014.323. Epub 2014 Sep 24.

Duration of chronic kidney disease reduces attention and executive function in 
pediatric patients.

Mendley SR(1), Matheson MB(2), Shinnar S(3), Lande MB(4), Gerson AC(5), Butler 
RW(6), Warady BA(7), Furth SL(8), Hooper SR(9).

Author information:
(1)University of Maryland School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.
(2)Johns Hopkins University School of Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.
(3)Albert Einstein College of Medicine, New York, New York, USA.
(4)University of Rochester School of Medicine, Rochester, New York, USA.
(5)Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.
(6)Neurocognitive Consultants, Happy Valley, Oregon, USA.
(7)Children's Mercy Hospitals and Clinics, Kansas City, Missouri, USA.
(8)Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.
(9)University of North Carolina School of Medicine, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, 
USA.

Chronic kidney disease (CKD) in childhood is associated with neurocognitive 
deficits. Affected children show worse performance on tests of intelligence than 
their unaffected siblings and skew toward the lower end of the normal range. 
Here we further assessed this association in 340 pediatric patients (ages 6-21) 
with mild-moderate CKD in the Chronic Kidney Disease in Childhood cohort from 48 
pediatric centers in North America. Participants underwent a battery of 
age-appropriate tests including Conners' Continuous Performance Test-II 
(CPT-II), Delis-Kaplan Executive Function System Tower task, and the Digit Span 
Backward task from the age-appropriate Wechsler Intelligence Scale. Test 
performance was compared across the range of estimated glomerular filtration 
rate and duration of CKD with relevant covariates including maternal education, 
household income, IQ, blood pressure, and preterm birth. Among the 340 patients, 
35% had poor performance (below the mean by 1.5 or more standard deviations) on 
at least one test of executive function. By univariate nonparametric comparison 
and multiple logistic regression, longer duration of CKD was associated with 
increased odds ratio for poor performance on the CPT-II Errors of Commission, a 
test of attention regulation and inhibitory control. Thus, in a population with 
mild-to-moderate CKD, the duration of disease rather than estimated glomerular 
filtration rate was associated with impaired attention regulation and inhibitory 
control.

DOI: 10.1038/ki.2014.323
PMCID: PMC4372504
PMID: 25252026 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1282. Pol Merkur Lekarski. 2014 Aug;37(218):99-103.

[Facial emotion recognition in patients with recurrent depressive disorder and 
patients with schizophrenia].

[Article in Polish]

Okruszek L, Talarowska M, Schudy A, Skrodzka M.

The ability to recognize emotion on the basis of facial expressions is an 
important component of emotional intelligence. Correct identification of facial 
mimics is a crucial element of nonverbal communication and it facilitates the 
processes of social cognition. The impairment of identification of facial 
emotion can contribute to i.a. deterioration in social functioning. Numerous 
empirical studies have proven that facial emotion recognition is disordered in 
schizophrenia and depression. The aim of the study was to compare the ability to 
recognize facial emotions between patients with schizophrenia, patients with 
recurrent depressive disorder and healthy controls. Moreover, the relation 
between scale of the impairment and severity of clinical symptoms was examined.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Participants of the study were divided into three groups: 
patients diagnosed with schizophrenia (n = 36), patients diagnosed with 
recurrent depressive disorder (n = 36) and healthy controls (n = 36). Facial 
emotion recognition was assessed in each group by using Emotional Intelligence 
Scale (SIE-T). Furthermore, the correlation between the performance in SIE-T and 
severity of clinical symptoms, assessed with Hamilton Depression Dating Scale 
and the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) was tested.
RESULTS: Patients diagnosed with schizophrenia were significantly impaired in 
SIE-T when compared with patients with depression and healthy controls. No 
statistically significant differences were observed between two latter groups. 
However, a correlation between performance and severity of depressive symptoms, 
as well as a trend towards a correlation between severity of positive symptoms 
and performance in SIE-T were observed.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with schizophrenia displayed the most severe deficits in 
facial emotion recognition of all three groups, and their impairment was 
independent from severity of symptoms. However, in depression deficits are 
related to severity of depression symptoms. The impairment of facial emotion 
recognition can significantly affect patients' social functioning.

PMID: 25252444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1283. Rev Neurol. 2014 Feb 24;58 Suppl 1:S129-35.

[FIRST: a tool for facilitating reading comprehension in high-functioning autism 
spectrum disorder].

[Article in Spanish; Abstract available in Spanish from the publisher]

González-Navarro A, Freire-Prudencio S, Gil D, Martos-Pérez J(1), Jordanova V, 
Cerga-Pashoja A, Shishkova A, Evans R.

Author information:
(1)Centro DELETREA, 28014 Madrid, Espana.

INTRODUCTION: Numerous studies have been documenting during the last decades the 
difficulties of reading comprehension shown by people with autism spectrum 
disorder (ASD), including those with preserved intelligence. These difficulties 
can condition their educational path and directly impact on social inclusion, 
autonomy and access to employment.
DEVELOPMENT: This article presents the work developed by a multidisciplinary 
team under the framework of a project funded by the European Union. It is an 
explanatory document intended to justify the needs that the population with 
high-functioning ASD have to access written information. The project is 
developing a software (Open Book) designed not only 'for' people with ASD, but 
'with' people with ASD.
CONCLUSION: Both the child population as well as the adult population of persons 
with ASD show difficulties in all formal components of written language. The 
tool needs to be flexible and facilitate it's personalized use in order to 
respond to the great heterogeneity of this population.

Publisher: TITLE: FIRST: una herramienta para facilitar la comprension lectora 
en el trastorno del espectro autista de alto funcionamiento.
Introduccion. Durante las ultimas decadas han surgido numerosas investigaciones 
que documentan las dificultades de comprension lectora que muestran las personas 
con trastorno del espectro autista (TEA), incluidas aquellas que tienen la 
inteligencia preservada. Estas dificultades pueden condicionar su trayectoria 
educativa e incidir de forma directa sobre su inclusion social, autonomia y 
acceso al mundo laboral. Desarrollo. Este articulo presenta el trabajo elaborado 
por un equipo multidisciplinar en el marco de un proyecto financiado por la 
Union Europea. Es un documento explicativo que pretende justificar las 
necesidades que tiene la poblacion de personas con TEA de alto funcionamiento 
para acceder a la informacion escrita. Es un proyecto que esta desarrollando una 
herramienta informatica (Open Book) que no solo esta siendo diseñada 'para' 
personas con TEA, sino que esta siendo desarrollada 'con' personas con TEA. 
Conclusion. Tanto la poblacion infantil como la poblacion adulta de personas con 
TEA muestran dificultades en todos los componentes formales del lenguaje 
escrito. La herramienta tiene que ser flexible y favorecer su uso 
individualizado, para dar respuesta a la enorme heterogeneidad de esta 
poblacion.

PMID: 25252659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1284. Environ Sci Pollut Res Int. 2015 Mar;22(5):3631-9. doi: 
10.1007/s11356-014-3627-8. Epub 2014 Sep 26.

Prenatal exposure to polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and cognitive dysfunction 
in children.

Jedrychowski WA(1), Perera FP, Camann D, Spengler J, Butscher M, Mroz E, 
Majewska R, Flak E, Jacek R, Sowa A.

Author information:
(1)Chair of Epidemiology and Preventive Medicine, Jagiellonian University 
Medical College, 7, Kopernika Street, Krakow, Poland, myjedryc@cyf-kr.edu.pl.

Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) are widespread environmental pollutants 
produced by combustion of fossil fuel and other organic materials. Both 
experimental animal and human studies have reported the harmful impacts of PAH 
compounds on fetal growth and neurodevelopment, including verbal IQ of children. 
Here, we have assessed the association between cognitive function of children 
and prenatal PAH exposures. The study is part of an ongoing, longitudinal 
investigation of the health effects of prenatal exposure to air pollution on 
infants and children in Krakow, Poland. The subjects in this report included 170 
children whose mothers were enrolled to the study in the first or second 
trimester of pregnancy whose cord blood were tested for PAH-DNA adducts and who 
were assessed at age 7 using the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for 
Children-Revised (WISC-R). The outcome of a priori interest was depressed verbal 
IQ index (DepVIQ), which is the difference between WISC-R performance and verbal 
IQ scores. Prenatal PAH exposure was measured by cord blood PAH-DNA adducts, an 
individual dosimeter, integrating exposure from various sources of exposure over 
the gestational period. The estimated effect of prenatal PAH exposure on 
cognitive function was adjusted in multivariable regression for a set of 
potential confounders (child's gender, parity, maternal education, breastfeeding 
practice, environmental tobacco smoke (ETS), and postnatal PAH exposure). The 
prevalence of DepVIQ was significantly higher in children with detectable 
PAH-DNA adducts compared to those with undetectable adducts (13.7 vs. 4.4 %,). 
Binary multivariable regression documented that the relative risk of DepVIQ 
increased threefold with a ln-unit increase in cord blood adducts (relative risk 
(RR) = 3.0, 95 % confidence interval (CI) 1.3-6.8). Postnatal PAH exposure also 
increased the risk of DepVIQ (RR = 1.6, 95 % CI 1.1-2.5). Long-term exclusive 
breastfeeding (at least 6 months) showed a protective effect (RR = 0.3, 95 % CI 
0.1-0.9). In conclusion, these results provide further evidence that PAHs are 
harmful to the developing fetal brain with effects extending through childhood, 
with implications for the academic success of the children.

DOI: 10.1007/s11356-014-3627-8
PMCID: PMC4334078
PMID: 25253062 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1285. World J Clin Pediatr. 2014 Aug 8;3(3):30-6. doi: 10.5409/wjcp.v3.i3.30. 
eCollection 2014 Aug 8.

Neurodevelopmental outcome in congenital diaphragmatic hernia: Evaluation, 
predictors and outcome.

Danzer E(1), Kim SS(1).

Author information:
(1)Enrico Danzer, Stephen S Kim, Division of Pediatric Surgery, Department of 
Surgery, Inova Fairfax Hospital for Children, Virginia Commonwealth University 
School of Medicine, Fairfax, VA 22003, United States.

To review the reported neurodevelopmental outcome of congenital diaphragmatic 
hernia (CDH) survivors, identify important predictors of developmental 
disabilities, and describe the pathophysiological mechanisms contributing to 
adverse outcome. A Medline search was performed for English-language articles 
cross-referencing CDH with pertinent search terms. Retrospective, prospective, 
and longitudinal follow-up studies were examined. The reference lists of 
identified articles were also searched. Neurodevelopmental dysfunction has been 
recognized as one of most common and potentially most disabling outcome of CDH. 
Intelligence appears to be in the low normal to mildly delayed range. Neuromotor 
dysfunction is common during early childhood. Behavioral problems, hearing 
impairment, and quality of life related issues are frequently encountered in 
older children and adolescence. Disease severity correlates with the degree of 
neurological dysfunction. Neurodevelopmental follow-up in CDH children should 
become standard of care to identify those who would benefit from early 
intervention services and improve neurological outcomes.

DOI: 10.5409/wjcp.v3.i3.30
PMCID: PMC4162442
PMID: 25254182


1286. ScientificWorldJournal. 2014;2014:452362. doi: 10.1155/2014/452362. Epub 2014 
Aug 28.

Self-adaptive trust based ABR protocol for MANETs using Q-learning.

Kumar AV(1), Jeyapal A(2).

Author information:
(1)Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering, Bangalore 560078, India.
(2)Sona College of Technology, Salem 636005, India.

Mobile ad hoc networks (MANETs) are a collection of mobile nodes with a dynamic 
topology. MANETs work under scalable conditions for many applications and pose 
different security challenges. Due to the nomadic nature of nodes, detecting 
misbehaviour is a complex problem. Nodes also share routing information among 
the neighbours in order to find the route to the destination. This requires 
nodes to trust each other. Thus we can state that trust is a key concept in 
secure routing mechanisms. A number of cryptographic protection techniques based 
on trust have been proposed. Q-learning is a recently used technique, to achieve 
adaptive trust in MANETs. In comparison to other machine learning computational 
intelligence techniques, Q-learning achieves optimal results. Our work focuses 
on computing a score using Q-learning to weigh the trust of a particular node 
over associativity based routing (ABR) protocol. Thus secure and stable route is 
calculated as a weighted average of the trust value of the nodes in the route 
and associativity ticks ensure the stability of the route. Simulation results 
show that Q-learning based trust ABR protocol improves packet delivery ratio by 
27% and reduces the route selection time by 40% over ABR protocol without trust 
calculation.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/452362
PMCID: PMC4164804
PMID: 25254243 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1287. Biosecur Bioterror. 2014 Sep-Oct;12(5):221-4. doi: 10.1089/bsp.2014.0044.

One health security: an important component of the global health security 
agenda.

Gronvall G, Boddie C, Knutsson R, Colby M.

The objectives of the Global Health Security Agenda (GHSA) will require not only 
a "One Health" approach to counter natural disease threats against humans, 
animals, and the environment, but also a security focus to counter deliberate 
threats to human, animal, and agricultural health and to nations' economies. We 
have termed this merged approach "One Health Security." It will require the 
integration of professionals with expertise in security, law enforcement, and 
intelligence to join the veterinary, agricultural, environmental, and human 
health experts essential to One Health and the GHSA. Working across such 
different professions, which occasionally have conflicting aims and different 
professional cultures, poses multiple challenges, but a multidisciplinary and 
multisectoral approach is necessary to prevent disease threats; detect them as 
early as possible (when responses are likely to be most effective); and, in the 
case of deliberate threats, find who may be responsible. This article describes 
2 project areas that exemplify One Health Security that were presented at a 
workshop in January 2014: the US government and private industry efforts to 
reduce vulnerabilities to foreign animal diseases, especially foot-and-mouth 
disease; and AniBioThreat, an EU project to counter deliberate threats to 
agriculture by raising awareness and implementing prevention and response 
policies and practices.

DOI: 10.1089/bsp.2014.0044
PMCID: PMC4171112
PMID: 25254909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1288. Neuroimage. 2015 Jan 1;104:355-65. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2014.09.035. Epub 
2014 Sep 23.

Sex differences in neocortical structure and cognitive performance: A 
surface-based morphometry study.

Escorial S(1), Román FJ(2), Martínez K(3), Burgaleta M(4), Karama S(5), Colom 
R(2).

Author information:
(1)Universidad Complutense de Madrid, Spain. Electronic address: 
sergio.escorial@psi.ucm.es.
(2)Universidad Autónoma de Madrid, Spain.
(3)Universidad Autónoma de Madrid, Spain; Hospital Gregorio Marañón, Madrid, 
Spain.
(4)Universidad Pompeu Fabra, Barcelona, Spain.
(5)Montreal Neurological Institute, MNI, Canada.

On average, men show larger brain volumes than women. Regional differences have 
been also observed, although most of the available studies apply voxel-based 
morphometry (VBM). Reports applying surface-based morphometry (SBM) have been 
focused mainly on cortical thickness (CT). Here we apply SBM for obtaining 
global and regional indices of CT, cortical surface area (CSA), and cortical 
gray matter volume (CGMV) from samples of men (N=40) and women (N=40) matched 
for their performance on four cognitive factors varying in their complexity: 
processing speed, attention control, working memory capacity, and fluid 
intelligence. These were the main findings: 1) CT and CSA produced very weak 
correlations in both sexes, 2) men showed larger values in CT, CSA, and CGMV, 
and 3) cognitive performance was unrelated to brain structural variation within 
sexes. Therefore, we found substantial group differences in brain structure, but 
there was no relationship with cognitive performance both between and 
within-sexes.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2014.09.035
PMID: 25255941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1289. Drug Test Anal. 2015 Jan;7(1):21-30. doi: 10.1002/dta.1719. Epub 2014 Sep 25.

Controlling the misuse of cobalt in horses.

Ho EN(1), Chan GH, Wan TS, Curl P, Riggs CM, Hurley MJ, Sykes D.

Author information:
(1)Racing Laboratory, The Hong Kong Jockey Club, Sha Tin Racecourse, Sha Tin, 
N.T., Hong Kong, China.

Comment in
    Drug Test Anal. 2016 Aug;8(8):880-1.

Cobalt is a well-established inducer of hypoxia-like responses, which can cause 
gene modulation at the hypoxia inducible factor pathway to induce erythropoietin 
transcription. Cobalt salts are orally active, inexpensive, and easily 
accessible. It is an attractive blood doping agent for enhancing aerobic 
performance. Indeed, recent intelligence and investigations have confirmed 
cobalt was being abused in equine sports. In this paper, population surveys of 
total cobalt in raceday samples were conducted using inductively coupled plasma 
mass spectrometry (ICP-MS). Urinary threshold of 75 ng/mL and plasma threshold 
of 2 ng/mL could be proposed for the control of cobalt misuse in raceday or 
in-competition samples. Results from administration trials with 
cobalt-containing supplements showed that common supplements could elevate 
urinary and plasma cobalt levels above the proposed thresholds within 24 h of 
administration. It would therefore be necessary to ban the use of 
cobalt-containing supplements on raceday as well as on the day before racing in 
order to implement and enforce the proposed thresholds. Since the abuse with 
huge quantities of cobalt salts can be done during training while the use of 
legitimate cobalt-containing supplements are also allowed, different urinary and 
plasma cobalt thresholds would be required to control cobalt abuse in 
non-raceday or out-of-competition samples. This could be achieved by setting the 
thresholds above the maximum urinary and plasma cobalt concentrations observed 
or anticipated from the normal use of legitimate cobalt-containing supplements. 
Urinary threshold of 2000 ng/mL and plasma threshold of 10 ng/mL were thus 
proposed for the control of cobalt abuse in non-raceday or out-of-competition 
samples.

Copyright © 2014 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/dta.1719
PMID: 25256240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1290. Scand J Psychol. 2014 Dec;55(6):611-8. doi: 10.1111/sjop.12165. Epub 2014 Sep 
26.

Personality traits measured at baseline can predict academic performance in 
upper secondary school three years late.

Rosander P(1), Bäckström M.

Author information:
(1)Section of Psychology, Kristianstad University, Sweden.

The aim of the present study was to explore the ability of personality to 
predict academic performance in a longitudinal study of a Swedish upper 
secondary school sample. Academic performance was assessed throughout a 
three-year period via final grades from the compulsory school and upper 
secondary school. The Big Five personality factors (Costa & McCrae, ) - 
particularly Conscientiousness and Neuroticism - were found to predict overall 
academic performance, after controlling for general intelligence. Results 
suggest that Conscientiousness, as measured at the age of 16, can explain change 
in academic performance at the age of 19. The effect of Neuroticism on 
Conscientiousness indicates that, as regarding getting good grades, it is better 
to be a bit neurotic than to be stable. The study extends previous work by 
assessing the relationship between the Big Five and academic performance over a 
three-year period. The results offer educators avenues for improving educational 
achievement.

© 2014 Scandinavian Psychological Associations and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/sjop.12165
PMID: 25257093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1291. Autism Res. 2015 Feb;8(1):38-51. doi: 10.1002/aur.1403. Epub 2014 Sep 24.

Motor learning in individuals with autism spectrum disorder: activation in 
superior parietal lobule related to learning and repetitive behaviors.

Travers BG(1), Kana RK, Klinger LG, Klein CL, Klinger MR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa, Alabama.

Motor-linked implicit learning is the learning of a sequence of movements 
without conscious awareness. Although motor symptoms are frequently reported in 
individuals with autism spectrum disorder (ASD), recent behavioral studies have 
suggested that motor-linked implicit learning may be intact in ASD. The serial 
reaction time (SRT) task is one of the most common measures of motor-linked 
implicit learning. The present study used a 3T functional magnetic resonance 
imaging scanner to examine the behavioral and neural correlates of real-time 
motor sequence learning in adolescents and adults with ASD (n = 15) compared 
with age- and intelligence quotient-matched individuals with typical development 
(n = 15) during an SRT task. Behavioral results suggested less robust motor 
sequence learning in individuals with ASD. Group differences in brain activation 
suggested that individuals with ASD, relative to individuals with typical 
development, showed decreased activation in the right superior parietal lobule 
(SPL) and right precuneus (Brodmann areas 5 and 7, and extending into the 
intraparietal sulcus) during learning. Activation in these areas (and in areas 
such as the right putamen and right supramarginal gyrus) was found to be 
significantly related to behavioral learning in this task. Additionally, 
individuals with ASD who had more severe repetitive behavior/restricted interest 
symptoms demonstrated greater decreased activation in these regions during motor 
learning. In conjunction, these results suggest that the SPL may play an 
important role in motor learning and repetitive behavior in individuals with 
ASD.

© 2014 International Society for Autism Research, Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/aur.1403
PMID: 25258047 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1292. Contemp Educ Psychol. 2014 Oct 1;39(4):314-325. doi: 
10.1016/j.cedpsych.2014.08.001.

The Academic Diligence Task (ADT): Assessing Individual Differences in Effort on 
Tedious but Important Schoolwork.

Galla BM(1), Plummer BD(1), White RE(1), Meketon D(1), D'Mello SK(2), Duckworth 
AL(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Pennsylvania.
(2)University of Notre Dame.

The current study reports on the development and validation of the Academic 
Diligence Task (ADT), designed to assess the tendency to expend effort on 
academic tasks which are tedious in the moment but valued in the long-term. In 
this novel online task, students allocate their time between solving simple math 
problems (framed as beneficial for problem solving skills) and, alternatively, 
playing Tetris or watching entertaining videos. Using a large sample of high 
school seniors (N = 921), the ADT demonstrated convergent validity with 
self-report ratings of Big Five conscientiousness and its facets, self-control 
and grit, as well as discriminant validity from theoretically unrelated 
constructs, such as Big Five extraversion, openness, and emotional stability, 
test anxiety, life satisfaction, and positive and negative affect. The ADT also 
demonstrated incremental predictive validity for objectively measured GPA, 
standardized math and reading achievement test scores, high school graduation, 
and college enrollment, over and beyond demographics and intelligence. 
Collectively, findings suggest the feasibility of online behavioral measures to 
assess noncognitive individual differences that predict academic outcomes.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cedpsych.2014.08.001
PMCID: PMC4170650
PMID: 25258470


1293. Neuropsychiatr Dis Treat. 2014 Sep 17;10:1799-805. doi: 10.2147/NDT.S69562. 
eCollection 2014.

Sleep and cognitive problems in patients with attention-deficit hyperactivity 
disorder.

Lee HK(1), Jeong JH(1), Kim NY(1), Park MH(1), Kim TW(1), Seo HJ(1), Lim HK(1), 
Hong SC(1), Han JH(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, College of Medicine, The Catholic University of 
Korea, Seoul, Korea.

OBJECTIVES: Attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is characterized by 
inattentive and impulsive behavior. Many ADHD patients reportedly have cognitive 
dysfunction and sleep problems, including longer sleep latency, lower sleep 
efficiency, and shorter total sleep time. The purpose of this study was to 
examine neurocognitive functions and nocturnal sleep parameters in patients with 
ADHD, using a cognitive function test and actigraphy.
METHODS: Subjects included 37 male patients with ADHD and 32 controls (7-12 
years of age). For each participant, we determined intelligence quotient (IQ) 
and administered the Matching Familiar Figures Test (MFFT) and 72-hour 
actigraphy. The relationships between sleep parameters and cognitive functions 
were assessed.
RESULTS: ADHD patients significantly differed from controls in several cognitive 
functions and sleep variables. In the MFFT, response error rate (P<0.001) and 
error counts (P=0.003) were significantly increased in ADHD patients compared 
with control children. MFFT response latency was significantly shorter in ADHD 
patients than in controls (P<0.001). In addition, sleep latency (P=0.01), wake 
after sleep onset (WASO) (P<0.001), and fragmentation index (P<0.001) were 
evaluated by actigraphy and found to be significantly increased in patients with 
ADHD compared with controls. However, no significant differences in total sleep 
time or sleep efficiency were observed. WASO and response error rates were 
positively correlated in patients with ADHD (rho =0.52, P=0.012). Furthermore, 
fragmentation index sleep variables were significantly positively correlated 
with response error (rho =0.44, P=0.008) and response latency rates (rho =0.4, 
P=0.018) in the MFFT. Reaction error rate was significantly associated with the 
fragmentation index (beta =0.94, P=0.024).
CONCLUSION: Patients with ADHD had more sleep problems, including significantly 
increased sleep latency, WASO, and fragmentation index, and poorer cognitive 
function, compared with controls. Some of these sleep problems, including WASO 
and the fragmentation index, were positively correlated with impulsivity, 
illustrated by the cognitive function tests in patients with ADHD. However, 
further studies with large sample sizes and the addition of polysomnography and 
determination of ADHD subtypes should be performed to confirm our results 
regarding sleep and cognitive problems in patients with ADHD.

DOI: 10.2147/NDT.S69562
PMCID: PMC4172104
PMID: 25258537


1294. BMC Public Health. 2014 Sep 26;14:1006. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-14-1006.

The SNAPSHOT study protocol: SNAcking, Physical activity, Self-regulation, and 
Heart rate Over Time.

McMinn D(1), Allan JL.

Author information:
(1)Rowett Institute of Nutrition and Health, School of Medicine and Dentistry, 
University of Aberdeen, Health Sciences Building, Foresterhill Campus, Ashgrove 
Road, Aberdeen, AB25 2ZD, Scotland. david.mcminn@abdn.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: The cognitive processes responsible for effortful behavioural 
regulation are known as the executive functions, and are implicated in several 
factors associated with behaviour control, including focussing on tasks, 
resisting temptations, planning future actions, and inhibiting prepotent 
responses. Similar to muscles, the executive functions become fatigued following 
intensive use (e.g. stressful situations, when tired or busy, and when 
regulating behaviour such as quitting smoking). Therefore, an individual may be 
more susceptible to engaging in unhealthy behaviours when their executive 
functions are depleted. In the present study we investigate associations between 
the executive functions, snack food consumption, and sedentary behaviour in real 
time. We hypothesise that individuals may be more susceptible to unhealthy 
snacking and sedentary behaviours during periods when their executive functions 
are depleted. We test this hypothesis using real-time objective within-person 
measurements.
METHODS/DESIGN: A sample of approximately 50 Scottish adults from varied 
socio-economic, working, and cultural backgrounds will participate in the three 
phases of the SNAcking, Physical activity, Self-regulation, and Heart rate Over 
Time (SNAPSHOT) study. Phase one will require participants to complete 
home-based questionnaires concerned with diet, eating behaviour, and physical 
activity (≈1.5 hours to complete). Phase two will constitute a 2-3 hour 
psychological laboratory testing session during which trait-level executive 
function, general intelligence, and diet and physical activity intentions, past 
behaviour, and automaticity will be measured. The final phase will involve a 
7-day ambulatory protocol during which objective repeated assessments of 
executive function, snacking behaviour, physical activity, mood, heart rate, 
perceived energy level, current context and location will be measured during 
participants' daily routines. Multi-level regression analysis, accounting for 
observations nested within participants, will be used to investigate 
associations between fluctuations in the executive functions and health 
behaviours.
DISCUSSION: Data from the SNAPSHOT study will provide ecologically valid 
information to help better understand the temporal associations between 
self-regulatory resources (executive functions) and deleterious health 
behaviours such as snacking and sedentary behaviour. If we can identify 
particular periods of the day or locations where self-regulatory resources 
become depleted and produce suboptimal health behaviour, then interventions can 
be designed and targeted accordingly.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-14-1006
PMCID: PMC4196005
PMID: 25261200 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1295. Schizophr Res. 2014 Nov;159(2-3):506-8. doi: 10.1016/j.schres.2014.08.028. Epub 
2014 Sep 26.

Neuropsychology of reward learning and negative symptoms in schizophrenia.

Nestor PG(1), Choate V(2), Niznikiewicz M(3), Levitt JJ(4), Shenton ME(4), 
McCarley RW(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Massachusetts, Boston, MA, United 
States; Clinical Neuroscience Division, Laboratory of Neuroscience, Boston VA 
Healthcare System-Brockton Division, Department of Psychiatry, Harvard Medical 
School, Brockton, MA, United States. Electronic address: paul.nestor@umb.edu.
(2)Department of Psychology, University of Massachusetts, Boston, MA, United 
States; Clinical Neuroscience Division, Laboratory of Neuroscience, Boston VA 
Healthcare System-Brockton Division, Department of Psychiatry, Harvard Medical 
School, Brockton, MA, United States.
(3)Clinical Neuroscience Division, Laboratory of Neuroscience, Boston VA 
Healthcare System-Brockton Division, Department of Psychiatry, Harvard Medical 
School, Brockton, MA, United States.
(4)Clinical Neuroscience Division, Laboratory of Neuroscience, Boston VA 
Healthcare System-Brockton Division, Department of Psychiatry, Harvard Medical 
School, Brockton, MA, United States; Psychiatry Neuroimaging Laboratory, 
Department of Psychiatry, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, 
Boston, MA, United States.

We used the Iowa Gambling Test (IGT) to examine the relationship of reward 
learning to both neuropsychological functioning and symptom formation in 65 
individuals with schizophrenia. Results indicated that compared to controls, 
participants with schizophrenia showed significantly reduced reward learning, 
which in turn correlated with reduced intelligence, memory and executive 
function, and negative symptoms. The current findings suggested that a 
disease-related disturbance in reward learning may underlie both cognitive and 
motivation deficits, as expressed by neuropsychological impairment and negative 
symptoms in schizophrenia.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.schres.2014.08.028
PMCID: PMC4253713
PMID: 25261881 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1296. Am J Orthod Dentofacial Orthop. 2014 Oct;146(4):423-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.ajodo.2014.07.001.

Do dental esthetics have any influence on finding a job?

Pithon MM(1), Nascimento CC(2), Barbosa GC(3), Coqueiro Rda S(4).

Author information:
(1)Professor of orthodontics, Department of Health I, Southwest Bahia State 
University-UESB, Jequié, Bahia, Brazil. Electronic address: 
matheuspithon@gmail.com.
(2)Dentistry student, Department of Health I, Southwest Bahia State 
University-UESB, Jequié, Bahia, Brazil.
(3)Information Systems student, Department of Chemical and Exacts, Southwest 
Bahia State University, Jequié, Bahia, Brazil.
(4)Professor of epidemiology, Center for Studies in Aging, Department of Health 
I, Southwest Bahia State University, Jequié, Bahia, Brazil.

INTRODUCTION: Our objective was to determine whether dental esthetics have any 
influence on finding a new job.
METHODS: Ten patients with orthodontic treatment needs for various types of 
malocclusions were selected. Smiling facial photographs of all patients were 
obtained and digitally altered (orthodontic correction of teeth). After the 
images were obtained, 2 different questionnaires were prepared (survey groups A 
and B) with the photographs without alteration (showing malocclusion) and 
altered (with orthodontic correction). Subjects appeared in one questionnaire 
(survey group) with an ideal smile and also in the other (survey group) with a 
nonideal smile. The images were evaluated by 100 persons responsible for hiring 
staff for commercial companies. In each survey group, 4 questions were asked 
regarding the individuals' likelihood of being hired, honesty, intelligence, and 
efficiency at work. Analysis of variance for repeated measures was used to 
determine the differences in the evaluations of patients with ideal and nonideal 
dental esthetics for the 4 characteristics evaluated. The level of significance 
adopted was 5%.
RESULTS: The photographs of persons with ideal dental esthetics were, on 
average, evaluated as superior with respect to intelligence and likelihood of 
being hired than were the photographs of the same subjects with nonideal dental 
esthetics. For the characteristics of honesty and efficiency, no significant 
differences were observed in the evaluations between those with ideal and 
nonideal smiles (P <0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Persons with ideal smiles are considered more intelligent and have 
a greater chance of finding a job when compared with persons with nonideal 
smiles.

Copyright © 2014 American Association of Orthodontists. Published by Elsevier 
Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajodo.2014.07.001
PMID: 25263144 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1297. Child Dev. 2015 Jan-Feb;86(1):327-36. doi: 10.1111/cdev.12298. Epub 2014 Sep 26.

The development of scientific thinking in elementary school: a comprehensive 
inventory.

Koerber S(1), Mayer D, Osterhaus C, Schwippert K, Sodian B.

Author information:
(1)Freiburg University of Education.

The development of scientific thinking was assessed in 1,581 second, third, and 
fourth graders (8-, 9-, 10-year-olds) based on a conceptual model that posits 
developmental progression from naïve to more advanced conceptions. Using a 
66-item scale, five components of scientific thinking were addressed, including 
experimental design, data interpretation, and understanding the nature of 
science. Unidimensional and multidimensional item response theory analyses 
supported the instrument's reliability and validity and suggested that the 
multiple components of scientific thinking form a unitary construct, independent 
of verbal or reasoning skills. A partial credit model gave evidence for a 
hierarchical developmental progression. Across each grade transition, advanced 
conceptions increased while naïve conceptions decreased. Independent effects of 
intelligence, schooling, and parental education on scientific thinking are 
discussed.

© 2014 The Authors. Child Development © 2014 Society for Research in Child 
Development, Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/cdev.12298
PMID: 25263396 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1298. Early Interv Psychiatry. 2016 Oct;10(5):419-25. doi: 10.1111/eip.12194. Epub 
2014 Sep 27.

Relationship between menarche and psychosis onset in women with first episode of 
psychosis.

Rubio-Abadal E(1), Usall J(2), Barajas A(3), Carlson J(2), Iniesta R(2), 
Huerta-Ramos E(2), Baños I(2), Dolz M(4), Sánchez B(4); GENIPE Group; Ochoa 
S(2).

Author information:
(1)Research Unit, Parc Sanitari Sant Joan de Déu, Sant Boi de Llobregat, 
Barcelona, CIBERSAM. GTRDSM, Spain. rubio.elena@gmail.com.
(2)Research Unit, Parc Sanitari Sant Joan de Déu, Sant Boi de Llobregat, 
Barcelona, CIBERSAM. GTRDSM, Spain.
(3)Research Unit, Centre d'Higiene Mental Les Corts, Barcelona, Spain.
(4)Psychiatry Department, Hospital Sant Joan de Déu, CIBERSAM, Barcelona, Spain.

AIM: The aim of this study was to explore the relationship between age at 
menarche and age at first episode of psychosis, as well as clinical severity and 
outcome, in a population of women with first-episode psychosis.
METHODS: Clinical and socio-demographical data, age at menarche and at 
first-episode psychosis, parental history of psychosis and cannabis-use habits 
were obtained from 42 subjects with a first episode of psychosis. Positive and 
Negative Syndrome Scale, Clinical Global Impression, Global Assessment Function, 
Disability Assessment Schedule, Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale and Wechsler 
Intelligence Scale for Children, European Quality of Life, and Lewis and Murray 
Obstetric Complication Scales were administered. Statistical analysis was 
performed by means of zero-order correlations and Mann-Whitney U and 
Kruskal-Wallis tests using SPSS version 17.0.
RESULTS: We found no significant correlation between age at menarche and age at 
first-episode psychosis, or with the clinical scores performed. We observed that 
subjects with earlier age at menarche had more parental history of psychosis.
CONCLUSIONS: Our negative results do not support the theory of a possible 
protective role of oestrogen, which seems to be more complex than previously 
thought. We would suggest that further research is needed to investigate 
developmental influences of sex steroids on the onset of psychosis and 
potentially therapeutic benefits based upon oestrogen.

© 2014 Wiley Publishing Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/eip.12194
PMID: 25263663 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1299. J Clin Exp Neuropsychol. 2014;36(9):981-91. doi: 10.1080/13803395.2014.958438. 
Epub 2014 Sep 29.

Cognitive and electrophysiological characteristics of children with specific 
language impairment and subclinical epileptiform electroencephalogram.

Nenadović V(1), Stokić M, Vuković M, Đoković S, Subotić M.

Author information:
(1)a Institute for Experimental Phonetics and Speech Pathology , Belgrade , 
Serbia.

The current study is a preliminary examination of cognitive profiles and 
cortical distribution of the spectral power of different electroencephalogram 
(EEG) rhythms in children with specific language impairment and subclinical 
epileptiform discharges. Although a number of empirical studies point to higher 
incidence of abnormal EEGs in children with specific language impairment, only a 
few studies were found examining electrophysiological characteristics, such as 
locus of discharges and connections with cognitive functioning in this 
population of children. The sample included 12 children with specific language 
impairment (SLI) and abnormal EEG who underwent testing of cognitive functioning 
using the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children (WISC). The control sample 
included 13 children with specific language impairment and regular EEG. Results 
point to lower scores on several subtests of the performance scale for children 
with abnormal EEG than for the group with regular EEG. Detailed EEG analysis of 
cortical distribution of the spectral power of different EEG rhythms partially 
confirms the results of neuropsychological assessment, pointing to abnormal 
function of frontal and temporal regions. Higher values of spectral power of the 
delta brain rhythm in frontal regions are associated with lower results on the 
WISC performance scale. Results are discussed in the context of subgroups of the 
population of children with SLI.

DOI: 10.1080/13803395.2014.958438
PMID: 25264145 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1300. Appl Neuropsychol Child. 2015;4(3):217-20. doi: 10.1080/21622965.2013.874951. 
Epub 2014 Sep 29.

Gestational Diabetes: Long-Term Central Nervous System Developmental and 
Cognitive Sequelae.

Perna R(1), Loughan AR, Le J, Tyson K.

Author information:
(1)a Texas Institute of Rehabilitation Research , Houston , Texas.

Gestational diabetes is a common complication of pregnancy and occurs in 
approximately 7% of all pregnancies. It has been associated with an increased 
rate of congenital anomalies including disturbances of intrauterine growth, 
delayed brain maturity, and neurobehavioral abnormalities in the offspring. The 
resulting maternal and fetal metabolic dysfunction leads to diminished iron 
stores (which can affect red blood cell [RBC] production and subsequent 
organogenesis), a metabolism-placental perfusion mismatch, increased FFA, 
increased lactic acidosis, and potential hypoxia. Though most newborns born in 
the context of gestational diabetes are not significantly affected by it, 
empirical research suggests gestational diabetes has been associated with lower 
general intelligence, language impairments, attention weaknesses, impulsivity, 
and behavioral problems. In extreme cases, it may essentially function as a 
gestational brain insult. Children who are exposed to poorly controlled 
gestational diabetes may benefit from some form of tracking or follow-up 
assessments. Additionally, clinicians evaluating children with developmental 
learning or cognitive dysfunction may want to seek appropriate gestational 
diabetes-related information from the parents. A greater understanding of this 
significant gestational risk may help foster improved prenatal diabetes 
management and may help reduce the neurodevelopmental effects of gestational 
diabetes.

DOI: 10.1080/21622965.2013.874951
PMID: 25265045 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1301. J Child Adolesc Psychopharmacol. 2015 Mar;25(2):109-13. doi: 
10.1089/cap.2014.0041. Epub 2014 Sep 29.

Risk-sensitive decision-making deficit in adolescent suicide attempters.

Ackerman JP(1), McBee-Strayer SM, Mendoza K, Stevens J, Sheftall AH, Campo JV, 
Bridge JA.

Author information:
(1)1 Nationwide Children's Hospital Division of Behavioral Health , Columbus, 
Ohio.

OBJECTIVE: Suicide among adolescents is a major public health problem. 
Decision-making deficits may play an important role in vulnerability to suicidal 
behavior, but few studies have examined decision-making performance in youth at 
risk for suicide. In this study, we seek to extend recent findings that 
adolescent suicide attempters process risk evaluations differently than 
adolescents who have not attempted suicide.
METHODS: We assessed decision-making in 14 adolescent suicide attempters and 14 
non-attempter comparison subjects, ages 15-19, using the Cambridge Gambling Task 
(CGT). Each participant was also administered a diagnostic interview 
(Mini-International Neuropsychiatric Interview [MINI]), structured suicide 
severity measures, and a brief intelligence quotient (IQ) measure.
RESULTS: After controlling for gender and IQ differences, suicide attempters 
displayed an elevated risk-taking propensity on the CGT relative to comparison 
subjects, such that they were more willing to take a large risk with their bank 
of points, a decision-making style that proves disadvantageous over time. No 
group differences in the latency or accuracy of decision-making were observed.
CONCLUSIONS: Adolescents with a history of suicide attempt display increased 
risk-taking and greater difficulty predicting probable outcomes on the CGT. Such 
deficits have been associated with dysfunction in the orbitofrontal prefrontal 
cortex, which supports other studies implicating impaired decision-making among 
individuals with a history of suicide attempt.

DOI: 10.1089/cap.2014.0041
PMCID: PMC4367520
PMID: 25265242 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1302. Appl Neuropsychol Adult. 2014;21(4):297-309. doi: 10.1080/23279095.2013.811671. 
Epub 2013 Nov 5.

The design organization test: further demonstration of reliability and validity 
as a brief measure of visuospatial ability.

Killgore WD(1), Gogel H.

Author information:
(1)a Center for Depression, Anxiety, and Stress Research, McLean Hospital , 
Belmont , Massachusetts.

Neuropsychological assessments are frequently time-consuming and fatiguing for 
patients. Brief screening evaluations may reduce test duration and allow more 
efficient use of time by permitting greater attention toward neuropsychological 
domains showing probable deficits. The Design Organization Test (DOT) was 
initially developed as a 2-min paper-and-pencil alternative for the Block Design 
(BD) subtest of the Wechsler scales. Although initially validated for clinical 
neurologic patients, we sought to further establish the reliability and validity 
of this test in a healthy, more diverse population. Two alternate versions of 
the DOT and the Wechsler Abbreviated Scale of Intelligence (WASI) were 
administered to 61 healthy adult participants. The DOT showed high alternate 
forms reliability (r = .90-.92), and the two versions yielded equivalent levels 
of performance. The DOT was highly correlated with BD (r = .76-.79) and was 
significantly correlated with all subscales of the WASI. The DOT proved useful 
when used in lieu of BD in the calculation of WASI IQ scores. Findings support 
the reliability and validity of the DOT as a measure of visuospatial ability and 
suggest its potential worth as an efficient estimate of intellectual functioning 
in situations where lengthier tests may be inappropriate or unfeasible.

DOI: 10.1080/23279095.2013.811671
PMCID: PMC4235486
PMID: 25265311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1303. Brain Cogn. 2014 Nov;91:79-86. doi: 10.1016/j.bandc.2014.09.003. Epub 2014 Sep 
29.

Neural correlates of emotional intelligence in a visual emotional oddball task: 
an ERP study.

Raz S(1), Dan O(2), Zysberg L(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, The Center for Psychobiological Research, The Max 
Stern Yezreel Valley College, 19300, Israel; Department of Psychology, Tel Hai 
College, 12208, Israel. Electronic address: sivanr@yvc.ac.il.
(2)Department of Psychology, The Center for Psychobiological Research, The Max 
Stern Yezreel Valley College, 19300, Israel.
(3)Department of Psychology, Tel Hai College, 12208, Israel; Graduate School, 
Gordon College of Education, Haifa, Israel.

The present study was aimed at identifying potential behavioral and neural 
correlates of Emotional Intelligence (EI) by using scalp-recorded Event-Related 
Potentials (ERPs). EI levels were defined according to both self-report 
questionnaire and a performance-based ability test. We identified ERP correlates 
of emotional processing by using a visual-emotional oddball paradigm, in which 
subjects were confronted with one frequent standard stimulus (a neutral face) 
and two deviant stimuli (a happy and an angry face). The effects of these faces 
were then compared across groups with low and high EI levels. The ERP results 
indicate that participants with high EI exhibited significantly greater mean 
amplitudes of the P1, P2, N2, and P3 ERP components in response to emotional and 
neutral faces, at frontal, posterior-parietal and occipital scalp locations. P1, 
P2 and N2 are considered indexes of attention-related processes and have been 
associated with early attention to emotional stimuli. The later P3 component has 
been thought to reflect more elaborative, top-down, emotional information 
processing including emotional evaluation and memory encoding and formation. 
These results may suggest greater recruitment of resources to process all 
emotional and non-emotional faces at early and late processing stages among 
individuals with higher EI. The present study underscores the usefulness of ERP 
methodology as a sensitive measure for the study of emotional stimuli processing 
in the research field of EI.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bandc.2014.09.003
PMID: 25265320 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1304. Nat Rev Nephrol. 2014 Nov;10(11):625-43. doi: 10.1038/nrneph.2014.170. Epub 2014 
Sep 30.

Dendritic cells and macrophages in the kidney: a spectrum of good and evil.

Rogers NM(1), Ferenbach DA(2), Isenberg JS(1), Thomson AW(1), Hughes J(2).

Author information:
(1)Vascular Medicine Institute and Thomas E. Starzl Transplantation Institute, 
University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, W1544 Biomedical Science Tower, 200 
Lothrop Street, Pittsburgh, PA 15261, USA.
(2)MRC Centre for Inflammation Research, Queen's Medical Research Institute, 
University of Edinburgh, 47 Little France Crescent, Edinburgh EH16 4TJ, UK.

Renal dendritic cells (DCs) and macrophages represent a constitutive, extensive 
and contiguous network of innate immune cells that provide sentinel and 
immune-intelligence activity; they induce and regulate inflammatory responses to 
freely filtered antigenic material and protect the kidney from infection. 
Tissue-resident or infiltrating DCs and macrophages are key factors in the 
initiation and propagation of renal disease, as well as essential contributors 
to subsequent tissue regeneration, regardless of the aetiological and 
pathogenetic mechanisms. The identification, and functional and phenotypic 
distinction of these cell types is complex and incompletely understood, and the 
same is true of their interplay and relationships with effector and regulatory 
cells of the adaptive immune system. In this Review, we discuss the common and 
distinct characteristics of DCs and macrophages, as well as key advances that 
have identified the renal-specific functions of these important phagocytic, 
antigen-presenting cells, and their roles in potentiating or mitigating 
intrinsic kidney disease. We also identify remaining issues that are of priority 
for further investigation, and highlight the prospects for translational and 
therapeutic application of the knowledge acquired.

DOI: 10.1038/nrneph.2014.170
PMCID: PMC4922410
PMID: 25266210 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: JSI is chair of the 
Scientific Advisory Boards of Vasculox (St Louis, MO) and Radiation Control 
Technologies (Rockville, MD). AWT is co-inventor of a US patent for the 
generation of tolerogenic dendritic cells to promote transplant tolerance.


1305. PLoS One. 2014 Sep 30;9(9):e108600. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0108600. 
eCollection 2014.

Collaborative mining and interpretation of large-scale data for biomedical 
research insights.

Tsiliki G(1), Karacapilidis N(2), Christodoulou S(2), Tzagarakis M(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Chemical Engineering, National Technical University of Athens, 
Athens, Greece.
(2)University of Patras and Computer Technology Institute & Press 'Diophantus', 
Patras, Greece.

Biomedical research becomes increasingly interdisciplinary and collaborative in 
nature. Researchers need to efficiently and effectively collaborate and make 
decisions by meaningfully assembling, mining and analyzing available large-scale 
volumes of complex multi-faceted data residing in different sources. In line 
with related research directives revealing that, in spite of the recent advances 
in data mining and computational analysis, humans can easily detect patterns 
which computer algorithms may have difficulty in finding, this paper reports on 
the practical use of an innovative web-based collaboration support platform in a 
biomedical research context. Arguing that dealing with data-intensive and 
cognitively complex settings is not a technical problem alone, the proposed 
platform adopts a hybrid approach that builds on the synergy between machine and 
human intelligence to facilitate the underlying sense-making and decision making 
processes. User experience shows that the platform enables more informed and 
quicker decisions, by displaying the aggregated information according to their 
needs, while also exploiting the associated human intelligence.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0108600
PMCID: PMC4182494
PMID: 25268270 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


1306. Nutr Res Rev. 2014 Dec;27(2):232-41. doi: 10.1017/S0954422414000158. Epub 2014 
Sep 30.

An evidence-based method for examining and reporting cognitive processes in 
nutrition research.

Pase MP(1), Stough C(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Human Psychopharmacology, Swinburne University of Technology, 
Centre for Human Psychopharmacology, Swinburne University of Technology,PO Box 
218,Hawthorn,Victoria,Australia3122.

Cognitive outcomes are frequently implemented as endpoints in nutrition 
research. To reduce the number of statistical comparisons it is commonplace for 
nutrition researchers to combine cognitive test results into a smaller number of 
broad cognitive abilities. However, there is a clear lack of understanding and 
consensus as to how best execute this practice. The present paper reviews 
contemporary models of human cognition and proposes a standardised, 
evidence-based method for grouping cognitive test data into broader cognitive 
abilities. Both Carroll's model of human cognitive ability and the 
Cattell-Horn-Carroll (CHC) model of intelligence provide empirically based 
taxonomies of human cognition. These models provide a cognitive 'map' that can 
be used to guide the handling and analysis of cognitive outcomes in nutrition 
research. Making use of a valid cognitive nomenclature can provide the field of 
clinical nutrition with a common cognitive language enabling efficient 
comparisons of cognitive outcomes across studies. This will make it easier for 
researchers, policymakers and readers to interpret and compare cognitive 
outcomes for different interventions. Using an empirically derived cognitive 
nomenclature to guide the creation of cognitive composite scores will ensure 
that cognitive endpoints are theoretically valid and meaningful. This will 
increase the generalisability of trial results to the general population. The 
present review also discusses how the CHC model of cognition can also guide the 
synthesis of cognitive outcomes in systematic reviews and meta-analysis.

DOI: 10.1017/S0954422414000158
PMID: 25268900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1307. PLoS One. 2014 Sep 30;9(9):e106946. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0106946. 
eCollection 2014.

Price comparisons on the internet based on computational intelligence.

Kim JW(1), Ha SH(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Industrial & Management Systems Engineering, Dong-A University, 
Busan, Korea.
(2)School of Business Administration, Kyungpook National University, Daegu, 
Korea.

Information-intensive Web services such as price comparison sites have recently 
been gaining popularity. However, most users including novice shoppers have 
difficulty in browsing such sites because of the massive amount of information 
gathered and the uncertainty surrounding Web environments. Even conventional 
price comparison sites face various problems, which suggests the necessity of a 
new approach to address these problems. Therefore, for this study, an 
intelligent product search system was developed that enables price comparisons 
for online shoppers in a more effective manner. In particular, the developed 
system adopts linguistic price ratings based on fuzzy logic to accommodate 
user-defined price ranges, and personalizes product recommendations based on 
linguistic product clusters, which help online shoppers find desired items in a 
convenient manner.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0106946
PMCID: PMC4182042
PMID: 25268901 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


1308. Sensors (Basel). 2014 Sep 29;14(10):18131-71. doi: 10.3390/s141018131.

Handling real-world context awareness, uncertainty and vagueness in real-time 
human activity tracking and recognition with a fuzzy ontology-based hybrid 
method.

Díaz-Rodríguez N(1), Cadahía OL(2), Cuéllar MP(3), Lilius J(4), Calvo-Flores 
MD(3).

Author information:
(1)Akademi University, Department of Information Technologies, Turku Centre for 
Computer Science (TUCS) - Joukahainengatan, 3-5, Turku FIN-20520, Finland. 
ndiaz@abo.fi.
(2)University of Granada, Department of Computer Science and Artificial 
Intelligence, E.T.S.I. Informática y de Telecomunicación -C/. Periodista Daniel 
Saucedo Aranda s.n., Granada 18071, Spain. olmo.leon@decsai.ugr.es.
(3)University of Granada, Department of Computer Science and Artificial 
Intelligence, E.T.S.I. Informática y de Telecomunicación -C/. Periodista Daniel 
Saucedo Aranda s.n., Granada 18071, Spain.
(4)Akademi University, Department of Information Technologies, Turku Centre for 
Computer Science (TUCS) - Joukahainengatan, 3-5, Turku FIN-20520, Finland.

Human activity recognition is a key task in ambient intelligence applications to 
achieve proper ambient assisted living. There has been remarkable progress in 
this domain, but some challenges still remain to obtain robust methods. Our goal 
in this work is to provide a system that allows the modeling and recognition of 
a set of complex activities in real life scenarios involving interaction with 
the environment. The proposed framework is a hybrid model that comprises two 
main modules: a low level sub-activity recognizer, based on data-driven methods, 
and a high-level activity recognizer, implemented with a fuzzy ontology to 
include the semantic interpretation of actions performed by users. The fuzzy 
ontology is fed by the sub-activities recognized by the low level data-driven 
component and provides fuzzy ontological reasoning to recognize both the 
activities and their influence in the environment with semantics. An additional 
benefit of the approach is the ability to handle vagueness and uncertainty in 
the knowledge-based module, which substantially outperforms the treatment of 
incomplete and/or imprecise data with respect to classic crisp ontologies. We 
validate these advantages with the public CAD-120 dataset (Cornell Activity 
Dataset), achieving an accuracy of 90.1% and 91.07% for low-level and Sensors 
2014, 14 18132 high-level activities, respectively. This entails an improvement 
over fully data-driven or ontology-based approaches.

DOI: 10.3390/s141018131
PMCID: PMC4239884
PMID: 25268914 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1309. Med Law. 2014 Oct;33(3):131-59.

EMOTIONAL INTELLIGENCE, MORAL, ETHICS, BIO-ETHICS AND WHAT IS IN BETWEEN.

Keidar D, Yagoda A.

In recent years, the study of emotions has broadened its scope and established 
its standing as a new scientific discipline. Humanity has become increasingly 
conscious of the seminal role played by the emotional components in both 
intrapersonal and interpersonal behavior. A deeply rooted and inherent 
correlation exists between emotional intelligence (E.I. - Emotional 
Intelligence) and positive social results: social adaptation, quality social 
relationships, the capacity for healthy social behaviors, caring, altruism, 
empathy, enlightened communication and the efficacy and personal coherence 
essential to moral and ethical behavior, including its manifestation in the 
sphere of bio-ethics. The importance of the personal relationship between the 
doctor and the patient is especially fundamental in the current era of immense 
and accelerated scientific-technological development, forcing doctors to cope 
with an increasingly complicated technical environment. Precisely because of 
this reality, it is essential that a doctor's actions and interpersonal 
relationship with the patient proceed from an ethical base, grounded in both 
professional and emotional responsibility. Emotional responsibility is one of 
the central elements underlying bioethical conduct and is the element that 
provides the guideposts for the treatment of others. The symbiotic connection 
between emotional intelligence and the sphere of ethics and morals is what 
delineates human beings. Human beings, by definition and in essence, bear 
responsibility for their actions. The beginning of ethics is in the human 
being's consciousness of choice in relation to self and to others. An 
individual's choices integrate emotion and cognition. That ability to integrate 
alongside the capacity for choice enables the human race to act in accordance 
with ethical and moral codes. At work, on a daily basis, a doctor is positioned 
opposite to the physical, emotional, cognitive and ethical entirety of the 
patient. Beyond the doctor's technical ability to heal, there also exists his 
capacity to create within the patient the desire to heal.

PMID: 27359022 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1310. J Atten Disord. 2017 Sep;21(11):929-937. doi: 10.1177/1087054714550480. Epub 
2014 Sep 30.

Examination of the Effects of Intelligence on the Test of Variables of Attention 
for Elementary Students.

Hurford DP(1), Fender AC(1), Boux JL(1), Swigart CC(1), Boydston PS(1), Butts 
SR(1), Cox CL(1), Becker TA(1), Pike ME(1).

Author information:
(1)1 Pittsburg State University, KS, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To examine the performance differences on the Test of Variables of 
Attention (TOVA) among different IQ level groups.
METHOD: The present study examined the results of the TOVA with 138 elementary 
students aged 6 to 10 years who were assigned to one of four different groups 
based on their scores from the Wechsler Nonverbal Scale of Ability (WNV; low 
average: IQ < 90, average: IQ between 90 and 109, high average: IQ between 110 
and 119, superior: IQ between 120 and 129, and very superior: IQ > 129). The 
latter two groups were combined.
RESULTS: On all TOVA measures (response time, response time variability, errors 
of omission and commission, and ADHD scores), intellectual functioning 
significantly influenced performance.
CONCLUSION: The results of the present study indicate that performance on the 
TOVA was affected by intellectual functioning.

DOI: 10.1177/1087054714550480
PMID: 25270566 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1311. Assessment. 2015 Aug;22(4):441-8. doi: 10.1177/1073191114551551. Epub 2014 Sep 
29.

Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-IV Dyads for Estimating Global Intelligence.

Girard TA(1), Axelrod BN(2), Patel R(3), Crawford JR(4).

Author information:
(1)Ryerson University, Toronto, Ontario, Canada tgirard@psych.ryerson.ca.
(2)John D. Dingell Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Detroit, MI, 
USA.
(3)Ryerson University, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(4)University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, UK.

All possible two-subtest combinations of the core Wechsler Adult Intelligence 
Scale-IV (WAIS-IV) subtests were evaluated as possible viable short forms for 
estimating full-scale IQ (FSIQ). Validity of the dyads was evaluated relative to 
FSIQ in a large clinical sample (N = 482) referred for neuropsychological 
assessment. Sample validity measures included correlations, mean discrepancies, 
and levels of agreement between dyad estimates and FSIQ scores. In addition, 
reliability and validity coefficients were derived from WAIS-IV standardization 
data. The Coding + Information dyad had the strongest combination of reliability 
and validity data. However, several other dyads yielded comparable psychometric 
performance, albeit with some variability in their particular strengths. We also 
observed heterogeneity between validity coefficients from the clinical and 
standardization-based estimates for several dyads. Thus, readers are encouraged 
to also consider the individual psychometric attributes, their clinical or 
research goals, and client or sample characteristics when selecting among the 
dyadic short forms.

© The Author(s) 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/1073191114551551
PMID: 25271008 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1312. ACS Nano. 2014 Oct 28;8(10):10043-7. doi: 10.1021/nn502655u. Epub 2014 Oct 1.

Realization of the meminductor.

Han J(1), Song C, Gao S, Wang Y, Chen C, Pan F.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Advanced Materials (MOE), School of Materials Science and 
Engineering, Tsinghua University , Beijing 100084, China.

The meminductor was proposed to be a fundamental circuit memdevice parallel with 
the memristor, linking magnetic flux and current. However, a clear material 
model or experimental realization of a meminductor has been challenging. Here we 
demonstrate pinched hysteretic magnetic flux-current signals at room temperature 
based on the spin Hall magnetoresistance effect in several-nanometer-thick thin 
films, exhibiting the nonvolatile memorizing property and magnetic energy 
storage ability of the meminductor. Similar to the parameters of the capacitor, 
resistor, and inductor, meminductance, LM, is introduced to characterize the 
capability of the prepared meminductor. Our findings present an indispensable 
element of memdevices and open an avenue for nanoscale meminductor design and 
manufacture, which might contribute to low-power electronic circuits, 
information storage, and artificial intelligence.

DOI: 10.1021/nn502655u
PMID: 25271940


1313. Psychol Med. 2015 Apr;45(6):1253-62. doi: 10.1017/S0033291714002359. Epub 2014 
Oct 2.

Delusion proneness and 'jumping to conclusions': relative and absolute effects.

van der Leer L(1), Hartig B(2), Goldmanis M(2), McKay R(1).

Author information:
(1)ARC Centre of Excellence in Cognition and its Disorders,Department of 
Psychology,Royal Holloway,University of London,Egham,Surrey,UK.
(2)Department of Economics,Royal Holloway,University of London,Egham,Surrey,UK.

BACKGROUND: That delusional and delusion-prone individuals 'jump to conclusions' 
is one of the most robust and important findings in the literature on delusions. 
However, although the notion of 'jumping to conclusions' (JTC) implies gathering 
insufficient evidence and reaching premature decisions, previous studies have 
not investigated whether the evidence gathering of delusion-prone individuals 
is, in fact, suboptimal. The standard JTC effect is a relative effect but using 
relative comparisons to substantiate absolute claims is problematic. In this 
study we investigated whether delusion-prone participants jump to conclusions in 
both a relative and an absolute sense.
METHOD: Healthy participants (n = 112) completed an incentivized probabilistic 
reasoning task in which correct decisions were rewarded and additional 
information could be requested for a small price. This combination of rewards 
and costs generated optimal decision points. Participants also completed 
measures of delusion proneness, intelligence and risk aversion.
RESULTS: Replicating the standard relative finding, we found that delusion 
proneness significantly predicted task decisions, such that the more delusion 
prone the participants were, the earlier they decided. This finding was robust 
when accounting for the effects of risk aversion and intelligence. Importantly, 
high-delusion-prone participants also decided in advance of an objective 
rational optimum, gathering fewer data than would have maximized their expected 
payoff. Surprisingly, we found that even low-delusion-prone participants jumped 
to conclusions in this absolute sense.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings support and clarify the claim that delusion formation 
is associated with a tendency to 'jump to conclusions'. In short, most people 
jump to conclusions, but more delusion-prone individuals 'jump further'.

DOI: 10.1017/S0033291714002359
PMID: 25272196 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1314. Adv Health Sci Educ Theory Pract. 2015 Aug;20(3):683-9. doi: 
10.1007/s10459-014-9555-z. Epub 2014 Oct 2.

A mentor training program improves mentoring competency for researchers working 
with early-career investigators from underrepresented backgrounds.

Johnson MO(1), Gandhi M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of California, 550 16th Street, 3rd floor, 
San Francisco, CA, 94158-2549, USA, Mallory.Johnson@ucsf.edu.

Mentoring is increasingly recognized as a critical element in supporting 
successful careers in academic research in medicine and related disciplines, 
particularly for trainees and early career investigators from underrepresented 
backgrounds. Mentoring is often executed ad hoc; there are limited programs to 
train faculty to become more effective mentors, and the few that exist have a 
dearth of empirical support of their impact. In 2013, we recruited 34 faculty 
from across the US engaged in HIV-related clinical research to participate in a 
2-day Mentoring the Mentors workshop. The workshop included didactic and 
interactive content focused on a range of topics, such as mentor-mentee 
communication, leadership styles, emotional intelligence, understanding the 
impact of diversity (unconscious bias, microaggressions, discrimination, 
tokenism) for mentees, and specific tools and techniques for effective 
mentoring. Pre- and post-workshop online evaluations documented high rates of 
satisfaction with the program and statistically significant improvements in 
self-appraised mentoring skills (e.g. addressing diversity in mentoring, 
communication with mentees, aligning mentor-mentee expectations), as assessed 
via a validated mentoring competency tool. This is the first mentoring training 
program focused on enhancing mentors' abilities to nurture investigators of 
diversity, filling an important gap, and evaluation results offer support for 
its effectiveness. Results suggest a need for refinement and expansion of the 
program and for more comprehensive, long-term evaluation of distal mentoring 
outcomes for those who participate in the program.

DOI: 10.1007/s10459-014-9555-z
PMCID: PMC4383738
PMID: 25274417 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1315. Scand J Psychol. 2014 Dec;55(6):619-29. doi: 10.1111/sjop.12160. Epub 2014 Oct 
2.

Beliefs and environmental behavior: the moderating effect of emotional 
intelligence.

Aguilar-Luzón MC(1), Calvo-Salguero A, Salinas JM.

Author information:
(1)University of Granada, Granada, Spain.

Recent decades have seen a proliferation of studies aiming to explain how 
pro-environmental behavior is shaped by attitudes, values and beliefs. In this 
study, we have included an aspect in our analysis that has been rarely touched 
upon until now, that is, the intelligent use of emotions as a possible component 
of pro-environmental behavior. We applied the Trait Meta Mood Scale-24 (TMMS-24) 
and the New Environmental Paradigm scale to a sample of 184 male and female 
undergraduate students. We also carried out correlation and hierarchical 
regression analyses of blocks. The results show the interaction effects of the 
system of environmental beliefs and the dimensions of emotional intelligence on 
glass recycling attitudes, intentions and behavior. The results are discussed 
from the perspective of research on how the management of emotions guides 
thought and behavior.

© 2014 Scandinavian Psychological Associations and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/sjop.12160
PMID: 25274540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1316. Appl Neuropsychol Adult. 2015;22(3):215-26. doi: 10.1080/23279095.2014.910212. 
Epub 2014 Oct 2.

Types or modes of malingering? A confirmatory factor analysis of performance and 
symptom validity tests.

Egeland J(1), Andersson S, Sundseth ØØ, Schanke AK.

Author information:
(1)a Division of Mental Health & Addiction , Vestfold Hospital Trust , Tønsberg 
, Norway.

Recently, the dichotomy between performance validity tests (PVT) and symptom 
validity tests (SVT) has been suggested to differentiate between invalid 
performance and invalid self-report, respectively. PVTs are typically used to 
identify malingered cognitive impairment, while SVTs identify malingered 
psychological or somatic symptoms. It is assumed that people can malinger 
different types of problems, but the impact of modes of reporting invalidly has 
been largely unexplored. A mixed neurological sample (n = 130) was tested with 
the Test of Memory Malingering, the Forced Recognition part of the California 
Verbal Learning Test, and the self-report Structured Inventory of Malingered 
Symptoms (SIMS). Confirmatory factor analyses testing both method- and 
content-based factor models found best fit for the method-based division. 
Regression analyses of other self-rating and performance-based tests provided 
further support for the importance of type of methods used to collect 
information. While acknowledging the types of symptoms malingered, the clinician 
is advised also to consider how information is gathered by using both PVTs and 
SVTs. SIMS is a good candidate for a stand-alone SVT, although the utility of 
the Low Intelligence subscale is questionable as a validity measure.

DOI: 10.1080/23279095.2014.910212
PMID: 25275555 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1317. Autism Res Treat. 2014;2014:502420. doi: 10.1155/2014/502420. Epub 2014 Sep 3.

Mental health services for individuals with high functioning autism spectrum 
disorder.

Lake JK(1), Perry A(2), Lunsky Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Dual Diagnosis Service, Centre for Addiction and Mental Health, 501 Queen 
Street West, Toronto, ON, Canada M5V 2B4 ; Department of Psychiatry, University 
of Toronto, 250 College Street, 8th Floor, Toronto, ON, Canada M5T 1R8.
(2)Dual Diagnosis Service, Centre for Addiction and Mental Health, 501 Queen 
Street West, Toronto, ON, Canada M5V 2B4.

Adolescents and adults with an autism spectrum disorder (ASD) who do not have an 
intellectual impairment or disability (ID), described here as individuals with 
high-functioning autism spectrum disorder (HFASD), represent a complex and 
underserved psychiatric population. While there is an emerging literature on the 
mental health needs of children with ASD with normal intelligence, we know less 
about these issues in adults. Of the few studies of adolescents and adults with 
HFASD completed to date, findings suggest that they face a multitude of 
cooccurring psychiatric (e.g., anxiety, depression), psychosocial, and 
functional issues, all of which occur in addition to their ASD symptomatology. 
Despite this, traditional mental health services and supports are falling short 
of meeting the needs of these adults. This review highlights the service needs 
and the corresponding gaps in care for this population. It also provides an 
overview of the literature on psychiatric risk factors, identifies areas 
requiring further study, and makes recommendations for how existing mental 
health services could include adults with HFASD.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/502420
PMCID: PMC4168143
PMID: 25276425


1318. Arch Plast Surg. 2014 Sep;41(5):472-9. doi: 10.5999/aps.2014.41.5.472. Epub 2014 
Sep 15.

Self-reported speech problems in adolescents and young adults with 22q11.2 
deletion syndrome: a cross-sectional cohort study.

Spruijt NE(1), Vorstman JA(2), Kon M(1), Mink van der Molen AB(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Plastic Surgery, University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, 
The Netherlands.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Rudolf Magnus Institute of Neuroscience, University 
Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Speech problems are a common clinical feature of the 22q11.2 
deletion syndrome. The objectives of this study were to inventory the speech 
history and current self-reported speech rating of adolescents and young adults, 
and examine the possible variables influencing the current speech ratings, 
including cleft palate, surgery, speech and language therapy, intelligence 
quotient, and age at assessment.
METHODS: In this cross-sectional cohort study, 50 adolescents and young adults 
with the 22q11.2 deletion syndrome (ages, 12-26 years, 67% female) filled out 
questionnaires. A neuropsychologist administered an age-appropriate intelligence 
quotient test. The demographics, histories, and intelligence of patients with 
normal speech (speech rating=1) were compared to those of patients with 
different speech (speech rating>1).
RESULTS: Of the 50 patients, a minority (26%) had a cleft palate, nearly half 
(46%) underwent a pharyngoplasty, and all (100%) had speech and language 
therapy. Poorer speech ratings were correlated with more years of speech and 
language therapy (Spearman's correlation= 0.418, P=0.004; 95% confidence 
interval, 0.145-0.632). Only 34% had normal speech ratings. The groups with 
normal and different speech were not significantly different with respect to the 
demographic variables; a history of cleft palate, surgery, or speech and 
language therapy; and the intelligence quotient.
CONCLUSIONS: All adolescents and young adults with the 22q11.2 deletion syndrome 
had undergone speech and language therapy, and nearly half of them underwent 
pharyngoplasty. Only 34% attained normal speech ratings. Those with poorer 
speech ratings had speech and language therapy for more years.

DOI: 10.5999/aps.2014.41.5.472
PMCID: PMC4179349
PMID: 25276637

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest relevant to 
this article was reported.


1319. Hum Factors. 2014 Sep;56(6):1036-49. doi: 10.1177/0018720813519675.

Displaying contextual information reduces the costs of imperfect decision 
automation in rapid retasking of ISR assets.

Rovira E, Cross A, Leitch E, Bonaceto C.

OBJECTIVE: The impact of a decision support tool designed to embed contextual 
mission factors was investigated. Contextual information may enable operators to 
infer the appropriateness of data underlying the automation's algorithm.
BACKGROUND: Research has shown the costs of imperfect automation are more 
detrimental than perfectly reliable automation when operators are provided with 
decision support tools. Operators may trust and rely on the automation more 
appropriately if they understand the automation's algorithm. The need to develop 
decision support tools that are understandable to the operator provides the 
rationale for the current experiment.
METHOD: A total of 17 participants performed a simulated rapid retasking of 
intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (ISR) assets task with manual, 
decision automation, or contextual decision automation differing in two levels 
of task demand: low or high. Automation reliability was set at 80%, resulting in 
participants experiencing a mixture of reliable and automation failure trials. 
Dependent variables included ISR coverage and response time of replanning 
routes.
RESULTS: Reliable automation significantly improved ISR coverage when compared 
with manual performance. Although performance suffered under imperfect 
automation, contextual decision automation helped to reduce some of the 
decrements in performance.
CONCLUSION: Contextual information helps overcome the costs of imperfect 
decision automation.
APPLICATION: Designers may mitigate some of the performance decrements 
experienced with imperfect automation by providing operators with interfaces 
that display contextual information, that is, the state of factors that affect 
the reliability of the automation's recommendation.

DOI: 10.1177/0018720813519675
PMID: 25277015 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1320. Int J Biometeorol. 2015 Jul;59(7):889-97. doi: 10.1007/s00484-014-0905-6. Epub 
2014 Oct 3.

Personalized symptoms forecasting for pollen-induced allergic rhinitis 
sufferers.

Voukantsis D(1), Berger U, Tzima F, Karatzas K, Jaeger S, Bergmann KC.

Author information:
(1)Aristotle University, P.O. Box 483, GR-54124, Thessaloniki, Greece, 
voukas@isag.meng.auth.gr.

Hay fever is a pollen-induced allergic reaction that strongly affects the 
overall quality of life of many individuals. The disorder may vary in severity 
and symptoms depending on patient-specific factors such as genetic disposition, 
individual threshold of pollen concentration levels, medication, former 
immunotherapy, and others. Thus, information services that improve the quality 
of life of hay fever sufferers must address the needs of each individual 
separately. In this paper, we demonstrate the development of information 
services that offer personalized pollen-induced symptoms forecasts. The backbone 
of these services consists of data of allergic symptoms reported by the users of 
the Personal Hay Fever Diary system and pollen concentration levels (European 
Aeroallergen Network) in several sampling sites. Data were analyzed using 
computational intelligence methods, resulting in highly customizable forecasting 
models that offer personalized warnings to users of the Patient Hay Fever Diary 
system. The overall system performance for the pilot area (Vienna and Lower 
Austria) reached a correlation coefficient of r = 0.71 ± 0.17 (average ± 
standard deviation) in a sample of 219 users with major contribution to the 
Pollen Hay Fever Diary system and an overall performance of r = 0.66 ± 0.18 in a 
second sample of 393 users, with minor contribution to the system. These 
findings provide an example of combining data from different sources using 
advanced data engineering in order to develop innovative e-health services with 
the capacity to provide more direct and personalized information to allergic 
rhinitis sufferers.

DOI: 10.1007/s00484-014-0905-6
PMID: 25277722 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1321. Intelligence. 2014 Sep;46:9-17. doi: 10.1016/j.intell.2014.04.005.

Religiosity is negatively associated with later-life intelligence, but not with 
age-related cognitive decline.

Ritchie SJ(1), Gow AJ(2), Deary IJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, The University of Edinburgh, United Kingdom ; 
Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, The University of 
Edinburgh, United Kingdom.
(2)Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, The University of 
Edinburgh, United Kingdom ; Department of Psychology, School of Life Sciences, 
Heriot-Watt University, United Kingdom.

A well-replicated finding in the psychological literature is the negative 
correlation between religiosity and intelligence. However, several studies also 
conclude that one form of religiosity, church attendance, is protective against 
later-life cognitive decline. No effects of religious belief per se on cognitive 
decline have been found, potentially due to the restricted measures of belief 
used in previous studies. Here, we examined the associations between 
religiosity, intelligence, and cognitive change in a cohort of individuals 
(initial n = 550) with high-quality measures of religious belief taken at age 83 
and multiple cognitive measures taken in childhood and at four waves between age 
79 and 90. We found that religious belief, but not attendance, was negatively 
related to intelligence. The effect size was smaller than in previous studies of 
younger participants. Longitudinal analyses showed no effect of either religious 
belief or attendance on cognitive change either from childhood to old age, or 
across the ninth decade of life. We discuss differences between our cohort and 
those in previous studies - including in age and location - that may have led to 
our non-replication of the association between religious attendance and 
cognitive decline.

DOI: 10.1016/j.intell.2014.04.005
PMCID: PMC4175010
PMID: 25278639


1322. Intelligence. 2014 Sep;46:73-83. doi: 10.1016/j.intell.2014.05.007.

Intelligence, creativity, and cognitive control: The common and differential 
involvement of executive functions in intelligence and creativity.

Benedek M(1), Jauk E(1), Sommer M(1), Arendasy M(1), Neubauer AC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Graz, Austria.

Intelligence and creativity are known to be correlated constructs suggesting 
that they share a common cognitive basis. The present study assessed three 
specific executive abilities - updating, shifting, and inhibition - and examined 
their common and differential relations to fluid intelligence and creativity 
(i.e., divergent thinking ability) within a latent variable model approach. 
Additionally, it was tested whether the correlation of fluid intelligence and 
creativity can be explained by a common executive involvement. As expected, 
fluid intelligence was strongly predicted by updating, but not by shifting or 
inhibition. Creativity was predicted by updating and inhibition, but not by 
shifting. Moreover, updating (and the personality factor openness) was found to 
explain a relevant part of the shared variance between intelligence and 
creativity. The findings provide direct support for the executive involvement in 
creative thought and shed further light on the functional relationship between 
intelligence and creativity.

DOI: 10.1016/j.intell.2014.05.007
PMCID: PMC4175011
PMID: 25278640


1323. Intelligence. 2014 Sep;46:94-106. doi: 10.1016/j.intell.2014.05.006.

Correlational structure of 'frontal' tests and intelligence tests indicates two 
components with asymmetrical neurostructural correlates in old age.

Cox SR(1), MacPherson SE(2), Ferguson KJ(3), Nissan J(4), Royle NA(5), 
MacLullich AM(6), Wardlaw JM(5), Deary IJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Brain Research Imaging Centre, Neuroimaging Sciences, University of 
Edinburgh, UK ; Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, 
University of Edinburgh, UK ; Department of Psychology, University of Edinburgh, 
UK.
(2)Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, University of 
Edinburgh, UK ; Department of Psychology, University of Edinburgh, UK.
(3)Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, University of 
Edinburgh, UK ; Geriatric Medicine, University of Edinburgh, UK.
(4)Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, University of 
Edinburgh, UK.
(5)Brain Research Imaging Centre, Neuroimaging Sciences, University of 
Edinburgh, UK ; Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, 
University of Edinburgh, UK ; Scottish Imaging Network, a Platform for 
Scientific Excellence (SINAPSE) Collaboration, UK.
(6)Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, University of 
Edinburgh, UK ; Geriatric Medicine, University of Edinburgh, UK ; Endocrinology 
Unit, University of Edinburgh, UK.

Erratum in
    Intelligence. 2018 Nov-Dec;71:97.

Both general fluid intelligence (gf) and performance on some 'frontal tests' of 
cognition decline with age. Both types of ability are at least partially 
dependent on the integrity of the frontal lobes, which also deteriorate with 
age. Overlap between these two methods of assessing complex cognition in older 
age remains unclear. Such overlap could be investigated using inter-test 
correlations alone, as in previous studies, but this would be enhanced by 
ascertaining whether frontal test performance and gf share neurobiological 
variance. To this end, we examined relationships between gf and 6 frontal tests 
(Tower, Self-Ordered Pointing, Simon, Moral Dilemmas, Reversal Learning and Faux 
Pas tests) in 90 healthy males, aged ~ 73 years. We interpreted their 
correlational structure using principal component analysis, and in relation to 
MRI-derived regional frontal lobe volumes (relative to maximal healthy brain 
size). gf correlated significantly and positively (.24 ≤ r ≤ .53) with the 
majority of frontal test scores. Some frontal test scores also exhibited shared 
variance after controlling for gf. Principal component analysis of test scores 
identified units of gf-common and gf-independent variance. The former was 
associated with variance in the left dorsolateral (DL) and anterior cingulate 
(AC) regions, and the latter with variance in the right DL and AC regions. Thus, 
we identify two biologically-meaningful components of variance in complex 
cognitive performance in older age and suggest that age-related changes to DL 
and AC have the greatest cognitive impact.

DOI: 10.1016/j.intell.2014.05.006
PMCID: PMC4175012
PMID: 25278641


1324. Environ Health Perspect. 2015 Jan;123(1):95-100. doi: 10.1289/ehp.1307154. Epub 
2014 Oct 3.

Prenatal exposure to phthalate esters and behavioral syndromes in children at 8 
years of age: Taiwan Maternal and Infant Cohort Study.

Lien YJ(1), Ku HY, Su PH, Chen SJ, Chen HY, Liao PC, Chen WJ, Wang SL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Promotion and Health Education, National Taiwan Normal 
University, Taipei, Taiwan.

BACKGROUND: Few studies have shown an association between prenatal phthalate 
exposure and adverse effects on neurodevelopment and behavior in young children.
OBJECTIVES: We aimed to assess the relationship between prenatal exposure to 
phthalate esters and behavior syndromes in children at 8 years of age.
METHODS: A total of 122 mother-child pairs from the general population in 
central Taiwan were studied from 2000 to 2009. Mono-methyl phthalate (MMP), 
mono-ethyl phthalate (MEP), mono-butyl phthalate (MBP), mono-benzyl phthalate 
(MBzP), and three di-(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP) 
metabolites-mono-2-ethylhexyl, mono-2-ethyl-5-hydroxyhexyl, and 
mono-2-ethyl-5-oxohexyl phthalates (MEHP, MEHHP, and MEOHP)--were measured in 
maternal urine collected during the third trimester of pregnancy using liquid 
chromatography-electrospray ionization-tandem mass spectrometry. Behavioral 
syndromes of children at 8 years of age were evaluated using the Child Behavior 
Checklist (CBCL). Associations between log10-transformed creatinine-corrected 
phthalate concentrations and standardized scores of the CBCL were estimated 
using linear regression models or multinomial logistic regressions with 
adjustments for potential confounders.
RESULTS: Externalizing problem scores were significantly higher in association 
with a 1-unit increase in log10-transformed creatinine-corrected concentrations 
of maternal MBP (β = 4.29; 95% CI: 0.59, 7.99), MEOHP (β = 3.74; 95% CI: 1.33, 
6.15), and MEHP (β = 4.28 ; 95% CI: 0.03, 8.26) after adjusting for the child's 
sex, intelligence, and family income. Meanwhile, MBP and MEOHP were 
significantly associated with Delinquent Behavior and Aggressive Behavior 
scores. The same pattern was found for borderline and/or clinical ranges.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest positive associations between maternal DEHP 
and dibutyl phthalate (DBP) exposure and externalizing domain behavior problems 
in 8-year-old children.

DOI: 10.1289/ehp.1307154
PMCID: PMC4286269
PMID: 25280125 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare they have no actual or 
potential competing financial interests.


1325. Environ Health Perspect. 2015 Mar;123(3):271-6. doi: 10.1289/ehp.1307420. Epub 
2014 Oct 3.

Environmental lead exposure and attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder symptom 
domains in a community sample of South Korean school-age children.

Hong SB(1), Im MH, Kim JW, Park EJ, Shin MS, Kim BN, Yoo HJ, Cho IH, Bhang SY, 
Hong YC, Cho SC.

Author information:
(1)Division of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Department of Psychiatry, Seoul 
National University College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.

BACKGROUND: Low-level environmental exposure to lead has been associated with 
both reduced intelligence and symptoms of attention deficit/hyperactivity 
disorder (ADHD). However, few studies have estimated the association of lead and 
intelligence independent of ADHD, and it is not clear from previous studies 
whether lead is associated with both inattention and impulsivity ADHD symptoms.
OBJECTIVES: We estimated mutually adjusted associations of environmental lead 
exposure with both intelligence and ADHD symptoms, and associations between lead 
and specific ADHD-related domains.
METHODS: Blood lead concentrations were measured in a general population of 
1,001 children 8-11 years of age. We used multivariable linear regression models 
to estimate associations of blood lead concentrations with IQ scores, teacher 
and parent ratings of ADHD symptoms, and measures of inattention and 
impulsivity. Models were adjusted for demographic variables and other 
environmental exposures (blood levels of mercury and manganese, urinary 
concentrations of cotinine, phthalate metabolites, and bisphenol A).
RESULTS: Associations of blood lead with lower IQ and higher impulsivity were 
robust to adjustment for a variety of covariates. When adjusted for demographic 
characteristics, other environmental exposures, and ADHD symptoms or IQ, a 
10-fold increase in blood lead concentration was associated with lower 
Full-Scale IQ (-7.23; 95% CI: -13.39, -1.07) and higher parent- and 
teacher-rated hyperactivity/impulsivity scores (ADHD Rating Scale, 1.99; 95% CI: 
0.17, 3.81 and 3.66; 95% CI: 1.18, 6.13, respectively) and commission errors 
(Continuous Performance Test, 12.27; 95% CI: -0.08, 24.62). Blood lead was not 
significantly associated with inattention in adjusted models.
CONCLUSIONS: Low-level lead exposure was adversely associated with intelligence 
in school-age children independent of ADHD, and environmental lead exposure was 
selectively associated with impulsivity among the clinical features of ADHD.

DOI: 10.1289/ehp.1307420
PMCID: PMC4348739
PMID: 25280233 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare they have no actual or 
potential competing financial interests.


1326. Int Health. 2015 Jan;7(1):49-59. doi: 10.1093/inthealth/ihu064. Epub 2014 Oct 3.

Economist intelligence unit democracy index in relation to health services 
accessibility: a regression analysis.

Walker ME(1), Anonson J(2), Szafron M(3).

Author information:
(1)University of Saskatchewan College of Nursing, 107 Wiggins Road Saskatoon, SK 
Canada S7N 5E5 mew513@mail.usask.ca.
(2)University of Saskatchewan College of Nursing, 107 Wiggins Road Saskatoon, SK 
Canada S7N 5E5.
(3)University of Saskatchewan School of Public Health, Health Sciences Building, 
107 Wiggins Road, Saskatoon, SK Canada S7N 5E5.

BACKGROUND: The relationship between political environment and health services 
accessibility (HSA) has not been the focus of any specific studies. The purpose 
of this study was to address this gap in the literature by examining the 
relationship between political environment and HSA.
METHODS: This relationship that HSA indicators (physicians, nurses and hospital 
beds per 10 000 people) has with political environment was analyzed with 
multiple least-squares regression using the components of democracy (electoral 
processes and pluralism, functioning of government, political participation, 
political culture, and civil liberties). The components of democracy were 
represented by the 2011 Economist Intelligence Unit Democracy Index (EIUDI) 
sub-scores. The EIUDI sub-scores and the HSA indicators were evaluated for 
significant relationships with multiple least-squares regression.
RESULTS: While controlling for a country's geographic location and level of 
democracy, we found that two components of a nation's political environment: 
functioning of government and political participation, and their interaction had 
significant relationships with the three HSA indicators.
CONCLUSIONS: These study findings are of significance to health professionals 
because they examine the political contexts in which citizens access health 
services, they come from research that is the first of its kind, and they help 
explain the effect political environment has on health.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Royal 
Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene. All rights reserved. For permissions, 
please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/inthealth/ihu064
PMID: 25280474 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1327. J Dent Educ. 2014 Oct;78(10):1405-15.

Establishing a good dentist-patient relationship: skills defined from the dental 
faculty perspective.

Orsini CA(1), Jerez OM(2).

Author information:
(1)Dr. Orsini is researcher in the Advanced Human Capital Development Program in 
Higher Education, Teaching and Learning Center, University of Chile; and Dr. 
Jerez is Director of the Teaching and Learning Center, Faculty of Economics and 
Business, University of Chile. corsini@fen.uchile.cl.
(2)Dr. Orsini is researcher in the Advanced Human Capital Development Program in 
Higher Education, Teaching and Learning Center, University of Chile; and Dr. 
Jerez is Director of the Teaching and Learning Center, Faculty of Economics and 
Business, University of Chile.

The importance of developing good dentist-patient relationships has been well 
documented, but previous studies have focused on social techniques, not 
considering the psychological and behavioral characteristics of patients, and 
have used definitions and instruments that were not dental-specific. Therefore, 
the aims of this study were to propose a definition of dentist-patient 
relationship skills, derived from dental faculty members' criteria and informed 
by Emotional Intelligence concepts, and to propose a preliminary 
dental-specific, face-valid, and reliable self-assessment instrument. The study 
was conducted in three phases. Phases I and II defined dentist-patient 
relationship competence through literature analysis and semi-structured 
interviews with expert key informants, establishing the outcome skills. In Phase 
III, the instrument was constructed and piloted. Communication skills and basic 
psychological tools resulted in core topics for use in practice. The definition 
both specifies and broadens social interactions in dentistry by including dental 
faculty members' criteria and topics such as psychological tools and pre-, 
intra-, and postoperative topics appropriate for use during consultation, 
examination, and treatment. The instrument was found suitable, reasonable, and 
accessible with a Cronbach's alpha level of 0.95. Future studies are needed to 
confirm the definition, as well as the instrument's validity, reliability, 
transference, and sensitivity to the dental educational environment.

PMID: 25281674 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1328. Am J Epidemiol. 2014 Nov 1;180(9):885-7. doi: 10.1093/aje/kwu243. Epub 2014 Oct 
3.

Invited commentary: Interpreting associations between high birth weight and 
later health problems.

Eriksen W.

Comment in
    Am J Epidemiol. 2014 Nov 1;180(9):888-9.

Comment on
    Am J Epidemiol. 2014 Nov 1;180(9):876-84.

High birth weight (>4.0 kg) has been associated with a wide range of health 
problems later in life. The interpretation of these statistical associations may 
be difficult, however. These difficulties are closely linked to methodological 
challenges in this research, such as filtering out confounding from family 
factors, disentangling associations with prenatal processes from associations 
with postnatal processes, and uncovering what birth weight actually represents. 
The well-conducted study by Kristensen et al. (Am J Epidemiol. 
2014;180(9):876-884), presented in this issue of the Journal, offers an 
interesting example of how one can filter out confounding from family factors. 
In an elegant series of analyses, the authors show how an apparent inverse 
association between birth weight and later intelligence among those in the 
highest range of the birth weight scale became a positive association when 
proper adjustment for family factors was made. Sibling comparisons were 
important here.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Johns 
Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. All rights reserved. For permissions, 
please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/kwu243
PMID: 25281692 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1329. Am J Epidemiol. 2014 Nov 1;180(9):876-84. doi: 10.1093/aje/kwu241. Epub 2014 Oct 
3.

The association of high birth weight with intelligence in young adulthood: a 
cohort study of male siblings.

Kristensen P, Susser E, Irgens LM, Mehlum IS, Corbett K, Bjerkedal T.

Comment in
    Am J Epidemiol. 2014 Nov 1;180(9):885-7.
    Am J Epidemiol. 2014 Nov 1;180(9):888-9.

We aimed to explore why, in population studies, the positive association between 
normal-range birth weight and intelligence becomes negative at the highest birth 
weights. The study population comprised 217,746 Norwegian male singletons born 
at term between 1967 and 1976. All had data on birth weight and intelligence 
quotient (IQ) score at the time of military conscription; 137,574 had data on 
sibling birth weights; and 62,906 had data on male sibling birth weights. We 
estimated associations between birth weight and IQ score by ordinary least 
squares regression for the total study population and by fixed-effects 
regression for comparisons of brothers. The crude mean IQ score was 1.2 points 
(95% confidence interval (CI): 0.3, 2.2) lower for those with birth weights of 
5,000 g or more compared with the reference group (with birth weights of 
4,000-4,499 g). This difference leveled off to 0.0 (95% CI: -0.8, 0.9) in 
multivariable ordinary least squares regression and reversed to 2.2 points (95% 
CI: 0.3, 4.2) higher in fixed-effects regression. Results differed mainly 
because, at a given birth weight, participants who had a sibling with macrosomia 
had a lower mean IQ score. Nevertheless, within families with 1 or more 
macrosomic siblings, as in other families, men with higher birth weights tended 
to have higher IQ scores. Thus, a family-level confounder introduces a 
cross-level bias that cannot be detected in individual-level studies. We suggest 
ways in which future studies might elucidate the nature of this confounder.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Johns 
Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. All rights reserved. For permissions, 
please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/kwu241
PMID: 25281694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1330. J Pediatr. 2015 Jan;166(1):31-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2014.08.039. Epub 2014 Oct 
1.

Neurodevelopment and behavior after transcatheter versus surgical closure of 
secundum type atrial septal defect.

Sarrechia I(1), De Wolf D(2), Miatton M(3), François K(4), Gewillig M(5), Meyns 
B(6), Vingerhoets G(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, Ghent University, Ghent, Belgium. 
Electronic address: iemke.sarrechia@ugent.be.
(2)Division of Pediatric Cardiology, Department of Pediatrics, Ghent University, 
Ghent, Belgium.
(3)Division of Head, Neck, and Nerve Systems, Department of Neurology, Ghent 
University Hospital, Ghent, Belgium.
(4)Division of Congenital Cardiac Surgery, Department of Cardiac Surgery, Ghent 
University Hospital, Ghent, Belgium.
(5)Department of Pediatric and Congenital Cardiology, University Hospital 
Gasthuisberg Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.
(6)Division of Pediatric and Congenital Cardiothoracic Surgery, Department of 
Cardiac Surgery, University Hospital Gasthuisberg Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.
(7)Department of Experimental Psychology, Ghent University, Ghent, Belgium.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the neuropsychological and behavioral profiles of 
school-aged children treated for atrial septal defect, secundum type (ASD-II) 
with open-heart surgery or catheterization.
STUDY DESIGN: Patients (n = 48; mean age, 9 years, 3 months) and a matched 
healthy group (mean age, 9 years, 2 months) were evaluated with a shortened 
intelligence scale (Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children, third edition, 
Dutch version) and a developmental neuropsychological test battery 
(Developmental Neuropsychological Assessment, second edition, Dutch version). 
Parents completed behavioral checklists (Achenbach Child Behavior Checklist for 
Children aged 6-18). Hospitalization variables were retrieved from medical files 
for studying associations with long-term neurodevelopment.
RESULTS: Compared with the healthy matched controls, patients treated for ASD-II 
had significantly lower scores on subtasks underlying such Developmental 
Neuropsychological Assessment, second edition, Dutch version domains as 
Attention and Executive Functioning, Language, Working Memory, Sensorimotor 
Functioning, Social Cognition, and Visuospatial Information Processing. Only 
subtle differences, mainly in Visuospatial Information Processing, were found 
between the surgical repair and transcatheter repair groups. Socioeconomic 
status, longer hospital stay, and larger defect size were associated with 
neurocognitive outcome measures. Parents of patients reported more thought 
problems, posttraumatic stress problems, and lower school performance compared 
with parents of healthy peers.
CONCLUSION: After treatment for ASD-II, children display a range of 
neuropsychologic difficulties that may increase their risk for learning problems 
and academic underachievement. Differences related to treatment were not found. 
Our results suggest that neurodevelopmental and behavioral follow-up at school 
age is warranted in this group.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2014.08.039
PMID: 25282067 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1331. Brain Cogn. 2014 Nov;91:100-7. doi: 10.1016/j.bandc.2014.08.007. Epub 2014 Oct 
6.

The correlation between emotional intelligence and gray matter volume in 
university students.

Tan Y(1), Zhang Q(2), Li W(3), Wei D(1), Qiao L(1), Qiu J(4), Hitchman G(1), Liu 
Y(5).

Author information:
(1)School of Psychology, Southwest University, Chongqing 400715, China.
(2)School of Psychology, Southwest University, Chongqing 400715, China; The 
Ministry of Education Key Laboratory of Cognition and Personality at Southwest 
University, Chongqing 400715, China.
(3)Institute of Mental Health, Jining Medical School, Jining 272067, China.
(4)School of Psychology, Southwest University, Chongqing 400715, China; The 
Ministry of Education Key Laboratory of Cognition and Personality at Southwest 
University, Chongqing 400715, China. Electronic address: qiuj318@swu.edu.cn.
(5)School of Psychology, Southwest University, Chongqing 400715, China; The 
Ministry of Education Key Laboratory of Cognition and Personality at Southwest 
University, Chongqing 400715, China. Electronic address: yijunliu@ufl.edu.

A number of recent studies have investigated the neurological substrates of 
emotional intelligence (EI), but none of them have considered the neural 
correlates of EI that are measured using the Schutte Self-Report Emotional 
Intelligence Scale (SSREIS). This scale was developed based on the EI model of 
Salovey and Mayer (1990). In the present study, SSREIS was adopted to estimate 
EI. Meanwhile, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and voxel-based morphometry 
(VBM) were used to evaluate the gray matter volume (GMV) of 328 university 
students. Results found positive correlations between Monitor of Emotions and 
VBM measurements in the insula and orbitofrontal cortex. In addition, 
Utilization of Emotions was positively correlated with the GMV in the 
parahippocampal gyrus, but was negatively correlated with the VBM measurements 
in the fusiform gyrus and middle temporal gyrus. Furthermore, Social Ability had 
volume correlates in the vermis. These findings indicate that the neural 
correlates of the EI model, which primarily focuses on the abilities of 
individuals to appraise and express emotions, can also regulate and utilize 
emotions to solve problems.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bandc.2014.08.007
PMID: 25282329 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1332. Nurse Educ Today. 2015 Jan;35(1):152-8. doi: 10.1016/j.nedt.2014.09.004. Epub 
2014 Sep 20.

The relationship between emotional intelligence, previous caring experience and 
mindfulness in student nurses and midwives: a cross sectional analysis.

Snowden A(1), Stenhouse R(2), Young J(3), Carver H(4), Carver F(5), Brown N(6).

Author information:
(1)University of the West of Scotland, Ayr Campus, Ayr KA8 0SX, UK. Electronic 
address: Austyn.snowden@uws.ac.uk.
(2)The University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh EH8 9YL, United Kingdom. Electronic 
address: Rosie.stenhouse@ed.ac.uk.
(3)University of the West of Scotland Paisley campus, Paisley, PA1 2BE. 
Electronic address: Jenny.young@uws.ac.uk.
(4)Edinburgh Napier University, Sighthill Campus, Edinburgh, EH11 4BN. 
Electronic address: 40135724@live.napier.ac.uk.
(5)Edinburgh Napier University, Sighthill Campus, Edinburgh, EH11 4BN. 
Electronic address: F.carver@napier.ac.uk.
(6)Edinburgh Napier University, Sighthill Campus, Edinburgh, EH11 4BN. 
Electronic address: N.brown@napier.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: Emotional Intelligence (EI), previous caring experience and 
mindfulness training may have a positive impact on nurse education. More 
evidence is needed to support the use of these variables in nurse recruitment 
and retention.
OBJECTIVE: To explore the relationship between EI, gender, age, programme of 
study, previous caring experience and mindfulness training.
DESIGN: Cross sectional element of longitudinal study.
SETTING AND PARTICIPANTS: 938year one nursing, midwifery and computing students 
at two Scottish Higher Education Institutes (HEIs) who entered their programme 
in September 2013.
DATA: Participants completed a measure of 'trait' EI: Trait Emotional 
Intelligence Questionnaire Short Form (TEIQue-SF); and 'ability' EI: Schutte's 
et al. (1998) Emotional Intelligence Scale (SEIS). Demographics, previous caring 
experience and previous training in mindfulness were recorded.
METHODS: Relationships between variables were tested using non-parametric tests.
RESULTS: Emotional intelligence increased with age on both measures of EI 
[TEIQ-SF H(5)=15.157 p=0.001; SEIS H(5)=11.388, p=0.044]. Females (n=786) scored 
higher than males (n=149) on both measures [TEIQ-SF, U=44,931, z=-4.509, p<.001; 
SEIS, U=44,744, z=-5.563, p<.001]. Nursing students scored higher that computing 
students [TEIQ-SF H(5)=46,496, p<.001; SEIS H(5)=33.309, p<0.001. There were no 
statistically significant differences in TEIQ-SF scores between those who had 
previous mindfulness training (n=50) and those who had not (n=857) [U=22,980, 
z=0.864, p = 0.388]. However, median SEIS was statistically significantly 
different according to mindfulness training [U=25,115.5, z=2.05, p=.039]. 
Neither measure demonstrated statistically significantly differences between 
those with (n=492) and without (n=479) previous caring experience, [TEIQ-SF, 
U=112, 102, z=0.938, p=.348; SEIS, U=115,194.5, z=1.863, p=0.063].
CONCLUSIONS: Previous caring experience was not associated with higher emotional 
intelligence. Mindfulness training was associated with higher 'ability' 
emotional intelligence. Implications for recruitment, retention and further 
research are explored.

Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nedt.2014.09.004
PMID: 25282342 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1333. Dev Cogn Neurosci. 2014 Oct;10:148-59. doi: 10.1016/j.dcn.2014.08.002. Epub 2014 
Aug 20.

Development of the default mode and central executive networks across early 
adolescence: a longitudinal study.

Sherman LE(1), Rudie JD(2), Pfeifer JH(3), Masten CL(2), McNealy K(2), Dapretto 
M(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of California, Los Angeles, Los Angeles, 
CA, USA; Ahmanson-Lovelace Brain Mapping Center, University of California, Los 
Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, USA. Electronic address: lsherman@ucla.edu.
(2)Ahmanson-Lovelace Brain Mapping Center, University of California, Los 
Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(3)Department of Psychology, University of Oregon, Eugene, OR, USA.
(4)Ahmanson-Lovelace Brain Mapping Center, University of California, Los 
Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, USA; Department of Psychiatry and Biobehavioral 
Sciences, University of California, Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, USA.

The mature brain is organized into distinct neural networks defined by regions 
demonstrating correlated activity during task performance as well as rest. While 
research has begun to examine differences in these networks between children and 
adults, little is known about developmental changes during early adolescence. 
Using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), we examined the Default Mode 
Network (DMN) and the Central Executive Network (CEN) at ages 10 and 13 in a 
longitudinal sample of 45 participants. In the DMN, participants showed 
increasing integration (i.e., stronger within-network correlations) between the 
posterior cingulate cortex (PCC) and the medial prefrontal cortex. During this 
time frame participants also showed increased segregation (i.e., weaker 
between-network correlations) between the PCC and the CEN. Similarly, from age 
10 to 13, participants showed increased connectivity between the dorsolateral 
prefrontal cortex and other CEN nodes, as well as increasing DMN segregation. IQ 
was significantly positively related to CEN integration at age 10, and 
between-network segregation at both ages. These findings highlight early 
adolescence as a period of significant maturation for the brain's functional 
architecture and demonstrate the utility of longitudinal designs to investigate 
neural network development.

Copyright © 2014 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dcn.2014.08.002
PMCID: PMC4854607
PMID: 25282602 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1334. Forensic Sci Int Genet. 2015 Jan;14:50-60. doi: 10.1016/j.fsigen.2014.08.013. 
Epub 2014 Aug 30.

A SNaPshot of next generation sequencing for forensic SNP analysis.

Daniel R(1), Santos C(2), Phillips C(2), Fondevila M(2), van Oorschot RA(3), 
Carracedo A(4), Lareu MV(2), McNevin D(5).

Author information:
(1)Office of the Chief Forensic Scientist, Forensic Services Department, 
Victoria Police, Australia. Electronic address: runa.daniel@police.vic.gov.au.
(2)Forensic Genetics Unit, Institute of Forensic Science "Luis Concheiro", 
University of Santiago de Compostela, Spain.
(3)Office of the Chief Forensic Scientist, Forensic Services Department, 
Victoria Police, Australia.
(4)Forensic Genetics Unit, Institute of Forensic Science "Luis Concheiro", 
University of Santiago de Compostela, Spain; CIBERER, Genomic Medicine Group, 
University of Santiago de Compostela, Spain; Center of Excellence in Genomic 
Medicine Research, King Abdulaziz University, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia.
(5)National Centre for Forensic Studies, University of Canberra, Australia.

Forensic phenotyping can provide useful intelligence regarding the 
biogeographical ancestry (BGA) and externally visible characteristics (EVCs) of 
the donor of an evidentiary sample. Currently, single nucleotide polymorphism 
(SNP) based inference of BGA and EVCs is performed most commonly using 
SNaPshot(®), a single base extension (SBE) assay. However, a single SNaPshot 
multiplex PCR is limited to 30-40 SNPs. Next generation sequencing (NGS) offers 
the potential to genotype hundreds to thousands of SNPs from multiple samples in 
a single experimental run. The PCR multiplexes from five SNaPshot assays 
(SNPforID 52plex, SNPforID 34plex, Eurasiaplex, IrisPlex and an unpublished BGA 
assay) were applied to three different DNA template amounts (0.1, 0.2 and 0.3 
ng) in three samples (9947A and 007 control DNAs and a male donor). The pooled 
PCR amplicons containing 136 unique SNPs were sequenced using Life Technologies' 
Ion Torrent™ PGM system. Approximately 72 Mb of sequence was generated from two 
10 Mb Ion 314™ v1 chips. Accurate genotypes were readily obtained from all three 
template amounts. Of a total of 408 genotypes, 395 (97%) were fully concordant 
with SNaPshot across all three template amounts. Of those genotypes discordant 
with SNaPshot, six Ion Torrent sequences (1.5%) were fully concordant with 
Sanger sequencing across the three template amounts. Seven SNPs (1.7%) were 
either discordant between template amounts or discordant with Sanger sequencing. 
Sequence coverage observed in the negative control, and, allele coverage 
variation for heterozygous genotypes highlights the need to establish a 
threshold for background levels of sequence output and heterozygous balance. 
This preliminary study of the Ion Torrent PGM system has demonstrated 
considerable potential for use in forensic DNA analyses as a low to medium 
throughput NGS platform using established SNaPshot assays.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fsigen.2014.08.013
PMID: 25282603 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1335. Dan Med J. 2014 Oct;61(10):B4947.

Fertility treatment: long-term growth and mental development of the children.

Bay B(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Aarhus University Hospital, 
Brendstrupgaardsvej 100, 8200 Aarhus N. Denmark. bjornbay@me.com.

Fertility treatment has been associated with obstetrical and perinatal 
complications. It is, however, uncertain whether fertility treatment or parental 
subfertility is associated with long-term development of the children. We aimed 
to assess the growth and mental health of children and adolescents conceived 
after fertility treatment compared to spontaneously conceived controls. First, 
we evaluated all previous studies comparing neurodevelopmental outcomes between 
children conceived after fertility treatment and spontaneous conceived controls. 
The systematic review clarified methodological limitations in the existing 
literature on the long-term development of children conceived after medical 
assisted reproduction. Although several studies had been published, large, 
well-controlled studies with long-term follow-up and thorough statistical 
adjustments were still few. Second, we evaluated the children's mental health by 
assessing the risk of mental disorders. We studied a population of 555,828 
children conceived after spontaneous conception and 33,139 children conceived 
after fertility treatment with follow-up in 2012 when the children were 8-17 
years old. The absolute risk and hazard ratio of overall and specific mental 
disorders were estimated while adjusting for potential confounding variables. 
Further, we estimated the association between subtypes of procedures, hormonal 
treatment, gamete types and cause of infertility on the one hand and the risk of 
mental disorders on the other. Children conceived after ovulation induction had 
a low, but significantly increased risks of autism spectrum disorders, 
hyperkinetic disorders, conduct, emotional, or social disorders, and tic 
disorders. Children conceived after IVF or ICSI showed no increased risk, except 
for a small risk of tic disorders. There was no risk systematically related to 
any specific type of hormone drug treatment. Thus, the increased risks may rely 
on residual confounding such as unknown parental factors associated with 
infertility in the ovulation induction group. Third, we assessed the 
intelligence, attention and executive functions in 1782 5-year-old singletons. 
Compared with children conceived after spontaneous conception, there were no 
differences in test scores in children conceived by subfertile parents waiting 
more than 12 months before conceiving naturally or children born by parents 
conceiving after fertility treatment. Finally, we evaluated the growth of 
children born after fertility treatment or to subfertile parents. Compared to 
children conceived spontaneously, children born after fertility treatment or by 
subfertile parents had a significantly lower birth weight - an important 
predictor of mental development. In contrast, no differences on height, weight, 
or head circumference were found at the age of 5 years. In conclusion, we found 
no differences on long-term growth and neurodevelopment of children conceived 
after fertility treatment or by subfertile parents compared with spontaneously 
conceived children. Children born after ovulation induction had a low, but 
increased risk of mental disorders in childhood or adolescence, although this 
risk may rely on unknown parental factors associated with infertility.

PMID: 25283630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1336. Curr Biol. 2014 Oct 20;24(20):2440-4. doi: 10.1016/j.cub.2014.08.056. Epub 2014 
Oct 2.

Rapid evolution of the cerebellum in humans and other great apes.

Barton RA(1), Venditti C(2).

Author information:
(1)Evolutionary Anthropology Research Group, Durham University, Durham DH1 3LE, 
UK. Electronic address: r.a.barton@durham.ac.uk.
(2)School of Biological Sciences, University of Reading, Reading RG6 6BX, UK. 
Electronic address: c.d.venditti@reading.ac.uk.

Erratum in
    Curr Biol. 2017 Apr 24;27(8):1249-1250.

Humans' unique cognitive abilities are usually attributed to a greatly expanded 
neocortex, which has been described as "the crowning achievement of evolution 
and the biological substrate of human mental prowess". The human cerebellum, 
however, contains four times more neurons than the neocortex and is attracting 
increasing attention for its wide range of cognitive functions. Using a method 
for detecting evolutionary rate changes along the branches of phylogenetic 
trees, we show that the cerebellum underwent rapid size increase throughout the 
evolution of apes, including humans, expanding significantly faster than 
predicted by the change in neocortex size. As a result, humans and other apes 
deviated significantly from the general evolutionary trend for neocortex and 
cerebellum to change in tandem, having significantly larger cerebella relative 
to neocortex size than other anthropoid primates. These results suggest that 
cerebellar specialization was a far more important component of human brain 
evolution than hitherto recognized and that technical intelligence was likely to 
have been at least as important as social intelligence in human cognitive 
evolution. Given the role of the cerebellum in sensory-motor control and in 
learning complex action sequences, cerebellar specialization is likely to have 
underpinned the evolution of humans' advanced technological capacities, which in 
turn may have been a preadaptation for language.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cub.2014.08.056
PMID: 25283776 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1337. Neuroimage. 2014 Dec;103:349-354. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2014.09.055. Epub 
2014 Oct 2.

Functional brain networks contributing to the Parieto-Frontal Integration Theory 
of Intelligence.

Vakhtin AA(1), Ryman SG(1), Flores RA(2), Jung RE(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, NM, USA.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, NM, USA.
(3)Department of Neurosurgery, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, NM, USA. 
Electronic address: rex.jung@gmail.com.

The refinement of localization of intelligence in the human brain is converging 
onto a distributed network that broadly conforms to the Parieto-Frontal 
Integration Theory (P-FIT). While this theory has received support in the 
neuroimaging literature, no functional magnetic resonance imaging study to date 
has conducted a whole-brain network-wise examination of the changes during 
engagement in tasks that are reliable measures of general intelligence (e.g., 
Raven's Progressive Matrices Test; RPM). Seventy-nine healthy subjects were 
scanned while solving RPM problems and during rest. Functional networks were 
extracted from the RPM and resting state data using Independent Component 
Analysis. Twenty-nine networks were identified, 26 of which were detected in 
both conditions. Fourteen networks were significantly correlated with the RPM 
task. The networks' spatial maps and functional connectivity measures at 3 
frequency levels (low, medium, & high) were compared between the RPM and rest 
conditions. The regions involved in the networks that were found to be task 
related were consistent with the P-FIT, localizing to the bilateral medial 
frontal and parietal regions, right superior frontal lobule, and the right 
cingulate gyrus. Functional connectivity in multiple component pairs was 
differentially affected across all frequency levels during the RPM task. Our 
findings demonstrate that functional brain networks are more stable than 
previously thought, and maintain their general features across resting state and 
engagement in a complex cognitive task. The described spatial and functional 
connectivity alterations that such components undergo during fluid reasoning 
provide a network-wise framework of the P-FIT that can be valuable for further, 
network based, neuroimaging inquiries regarding the neural underpinnings of 
intelligence.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2014.09.055
PMID: 25284305 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1338. Br J Dev Psychol. 2014 Mar;32(1):50-64. doi: 10.1111/bjdp.12021. Epub 2013 Oct 
28.

A longitudinal intergenerational analysis of executive functions during early 
childhood.

Cuevas K(1), Deater-Deckard K, Kim-Spoon J, Wang Z, Morasch KC, Bell MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Connecticut, Waterbury, Connecticut, 
USA.

Despite the importance of executive function (EF) in both clinical and 
educational contexts, the aetiology of individual differences in early childhood 
EF remains poorly understood. This study provides the first longitudinal 
intergenerational analysis of mother-child EF associations during early 
childhood. A group of children and their mothers (n = 62) completed 
age-appropriate EF tasks. Mother and child EFs were modestly correlated by 
24 months of age, and this association was stable through 48 months. 
Importantly, maternal-child EF associations were still robust after controlling 
for verbal ability (potential indicator of verbal/crystallized intelligence) and 
maternal education (correlate of socio-economic status and verbal intelligence). 
Potential implications of these findings as well as underlying mechanisms of the 
maternal-child EF association (gene-environment interplay) are discussed.

© 2013 The British Psychological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/bjdp.12021
PMCID: PMC4187223
PMID: 25284715 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1339. Psychol Assess. 2014 Dec;26(4):1394-9. doi: 10.1037/pas0000029. Epub 2014 Oct 6.

Invariance in the Reynolds Intellectual Assessment Scales for Black and White 
referred students.

Beaujean AA(1), McGlaughlin SM(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Educational Psychology.
(2)Omaha Public Schools.

An important part of validity evidence for a test's scores is that they are 
invariant-measuring the same constructs the same way across different groups. 
Although published a decade ago, no independent investigation of invariance has 
been conducted on the Reynolds Intellectual Assessment Scales (RIAS). In the 
current study, we investigated invariance of the RIAS's measurement of general 
cognitive ability (g) between Black and White students who were referred for 
special education services. Results indicated that the subtest scores showed 
strict invariance, but g's variance was not the same across groups. 
Specifically, the White group exhibited a higher mean (d = 0.60) and almost 
twice the variability in g as the Black group did. Thus, although the 
between-group mean differences in subtest scores and the Composite Intelligence 
Index are due to between-group differences in g, the Black group used a narrower 
range of g than the White group did in answering the RIAS items.

(c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/pas0000029
PMID: 25285717 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1340. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2014 Oct 21;111(42):15273-8. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.1408777111. Epub 2014 Oct 6.

The high heritability of educational achievement reflects many genetically 
influenced traits, not just intelligence.

Krapohl E(1), Rimfeld K(1), Shakeshaft NG(1), Trzaskowski M(1), McMillan A(1), 
Pingault JB(2), Asbury K(3), Harlaar N(4), Kovas Y(5), Dale PS(6), Plomin R(7).

Author information:
(1)Medical Research Council Social, Genetic and Developmental Psychiatry Centre, 
Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology & Neuroscience, King's College London, 
London SE5 8AF, United Kingdom;
(2)Medical Research Council Social, Genetic and Developmental Psychiatry Centre, 
Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology & Neuroscience, King's College London, 
London SE5 8AF, United Kingdom; Division of Psychology and Language Sciences, 
University College London, London WC1H 0DS, United Kingdom;
(3)Psychology in Education Research Centre, Department of Education, University 
of York, York YO10 5DD, United Kingdom;
(4)Department of Psychology and Neuroscience, University of Colorado Boulder, 
Boulder, CO 80309;
(5)Medical Research Council Social, Genetic and Developmental Psychiatry Centre, 
Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology & Neuroscience, King's College London, 
London SE5 8AF, United Kingdom; Department of Psychology, Goldsmiths, University 
of London, London SE14 6NW, United Kingdom; Laboratory for Cognitive 
Investigations and Behavioural Genetics, Tomsk State University, Tomsk 634050, 
Russia; and.
(6)Department of Speech and Hearing Sciences, University of New Mexico, 
Albuquerque, NM 87131.
(7)Medical Research Council Social, Genetic and Developmental Psychiatry Centre, 
Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology & Neuroscience, King's College London, 
London SE5 8AF, United Kingdom; robert.plomin@kcl.ac.uk.

Because educational achievement at the end of compulsory schooling represents a 
major tipping point in life, understanding its causes and correlates is 
important for individual children, their families, and society. Here we identify 
the general ingredients of educational achievement using a multivariate design 
that goes beyond intelligence to consider a wide range of predictors, such as 
self-efficacy, personality, and behavior problems, to assess their independent 
and joint contributions to educational achievement. We use a genetically 
sensitive design to address the question of why educational achievement is so 
highly heritable. We focus on the results of a United Kingdom-wide examination, 
the General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE), which is administered at 
the end of compulsory education at age 16. GCSE scores were obtained for 13,306 
twins at age 16, whom we also assessed contemporaneously on 83 scales that were 
condensed to nine broad psychological domains, including intelligence, 
self-efficacy, personality, well-being, and behavior problems. The mean of GCSE 
core subjects (English, mathematics, science) is more heritable (62%) than the 
nine predictor domains (35-58%). Each of the domains correlates significantly 
with GCSE results, and these correlations are largely mediated genetically. The 
main finding is that, although intelligence accounts for more of the 
heritability of GCSE than any other single domain, the other domains 
collectively account for about as much GCSE heritability as intelligence. 
Together with intelligence, these domains account for 75% of the heritability of 
GCSE. We conclude that the high heritability of educational achievement reflects 
many genetically influenced traits, not just intelligence.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1408777111
PMCID: PMC4210287
PMID: 25288728 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


1341. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2014 Oct 21;111(42):15161-5. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.1409204111. Epub 2014 Oct 6.

Autism spectrum disorder severity reflects the average contribution of de novo 
and familial influences.

Robinson EB(1), Samocha KE(2), Kosmicki JA(3), McGrath L(4), Neale BM(5), Perlis 
RH(6), Daly MJ(5).

Author information:
(1)Analytic and Translational Genetics Unit, Department of Medicine, 
Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02114; 
Stanley Center for Psychiatric Research and Program in Medical and Population 
Genetics, Broad Institute of Harvard and MIT, Cambridge, MA 02142; 
erobinson@atgu.mgh.harvard.edu.
(2)Analytic and Translational Genetics Unit, Department of Medicine, 
Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02114; 
Stanley Center for Psychiatric Research and Program in Medical and Population 
Genetics, Broad Institute of Harvard and MIT, Cambridge, MA 02142; Program in 
Genetics and Genomics, Biological and Biomedical Sciences, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, MA 02114;
(3)Analytic and Translational Genetics Unit, Department of Medicine, 
Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02114; 
Stanley Center for Psychiatric Research and Program in Medical and Population 
Genetics, Broad Institute of Harvard and MIT, Cambridge, MA 02142; Center for 
Biomedical Informatics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115;
(4)School of Education, Teaching, and Health, American University, Washington, 
DC 20016; and Psychiatric and Neurodevelopmental Genetics Unit, Center for Human 
Genetic Research and Department of Psychiatry, Massachusetts General Hospital 
and Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02114.
(5)Analytic and Translational Genetics Unit, Department of Medicine, 
Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02114; 
Stanley Center for Psychiatric Research and Program in Medical and Population 
Genetics, Broad Institute of Harvard and MIT, Cambridge, MA 02142;
(6)Stanley Center for Psychiatric Research and Program in Medical and Population 
Genetics, Broad Institute of Harvard and MIT, Cambridge, MA 02142; Psychiatric 
and Neurodevelopmental Genetics Unit, Center for Human Genetic Research and 
Department of Psychiatry, Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, MA 02114.

Autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) are a highly heterogeneous group of 
conditions--phenotypically and genetically--although the link between phenotypic 
variation and differences in genetic architecture is unclear. This study aimed 
to determine whether differences in cognitive impairment and symptom severity 
reflect variation in the degree to which ASD cases reflect de novo or familial 
influences. Using data from more than 2,000 simplex cases of ASD, we examined 
the relationship between intelligence quotient (IQ), behavior and language 
assessments, and rate of de novo loss of function (LOF) mutations and family 
history of broadly defined psychiatric disease (depressive disorders, bipolar 
disorder, and schizophrenia; history of psychiatric hospitalization). Proband IQ 
was negatively associated with de novo LOF rate (P = 0.03) and positively 
associated with family history of psychiatric disease (P = 0.003). Female cases 
had a higher frequency of sporadic genetic events across the severity 
distribution (P = 0.01). High rates of LOF mutation and low frequencies of 
family history of psychiatric illness were seen in individuals who were unable 
to complete a traditional IQ test, a group with the greatest degree of language 
and behavioral impairment. These analyses provide strong evidence that familial 
risk for neuropsychiatric disease becomes more relevant to ASD etiology as cases 
become higher functioning. The findings of this study reinforce that there are 
many routes to the diagnostic category of autism and could lead to genetic 
studies with more specific insights into individual cases.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1409204111
PMCID: PMC4210299
PMID: 25288738 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


1342. Phys Biol. 2014 Oct 8;11(5):053009. doi: 10.1088/1478-3975/11/5/053009.

My encounters with bacteria--learning about communication, cooperation and 
choice.

Ben-Jacob E(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Physics and Astronomy, and Sagol School of Neuroscience, Tel-Aviv 
University, Tel-Aviv 69978, Israel. Center for Theoretical Biological Physics, 
and Department of Biochemistry and Cell Biology, Rice University, Houston, TX 
77005-1827, USA.

My journey into the physics of living systems began with the most fundamental 
organisms on Earth, bacteria, that three decades ago were perceived as solitary, 
primitive creatures of limited capabilities. A decade later this notion had 
faded away and bacteria came to be recognized as the smart beasts they are, 
engaging in intricate social life through a sophisticated chemical language. 
Acting jointly, these tiny organisms can sense the environment, process 
information, solve problems and make decisions so as to thrive in harsh 
environments. The bacterial power of cooperation manifests in their ability to 
develop large colonies of astonishing complexity. The number of bacteria in a 
colony can amount to many billions, yet they exchange 'chemical tweets' that 
reach each and every one of them so they all know what they're all doing, each 
cell being both actor and spectator in the bacterial Game of Life. I share my 
encounters with bacteria, what I learned about the secrets of their social life 
and wisdom of the crowd, and why and how, starting as a theoretical physicist, I 
found myself studying social intelligence of bacteria. The story ends with a 
bacteria guide to cyber-war on cancer.

DOI: 10.1088/1478-3975/11/5/053009
PMID: 25293892 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1343. J Atten Disord. 2017 Sep;21(11):921-928. doi: 10.1177/1087054714553052. Epub 
2014 Oct 7.

Structural Validity of the WISC-IV for Students With ADHD.

Styck KM(1), Watkins MW(2).

Author information:
(1)1 University of Texas at San Antonio, TX, USA.
(2)2 Baylor University, Waco, TX, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the structural validity of the Wechsler Intelligence 
Scale for Children-Fourth Edition (WISC-IV).
METHOD: Confirmatory factor analyses were applied to a sample of 233 students 
diagnosed with ADHD by school multidisciplinary evaluation teams to evaluate the 
relative fit of the following competing models: (a) one factor, (b) two oblique 
verbal and nonverbal factors, (c) three oblique verbal, perceptual, and combined 
working memory/processing speed factors, (d) four oblique verbal, perceptual, 
working memory, and processing speed factors, (e) a higher-order model with four 
first-order factors, and (f) a bifactor model with four domain-specific factors.
RESULTS: A higher-order four-factor model fit the data best, which was composed 
of a general intelligence factor and four domain-specific factors that matched 
the four factors specified in the WISC-IV technical and interpretive manual. 
Moreover, the general intelligence factor explained more than two times the 
total variance contributed by all four domain-specific factors combined.
CONCLUSIONS: Results substantiate previous research on the WISC-IV, indicating 
that the general intelligence factor contributes the most reliable information. 
Consequently, it is recommended that interpretation of the WISC-IV remain at the 
Full-Scale IQ score level.

DOI: 10.1177/1087054714553052
PMID: 25294015 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1344. Front Hum Neurosci. 2014 Sep 23;8:732. doi: 10.3389/fnhum.2014.00732. 
eCollection 2014.

Order short-term memory is not impaired in dyslexia and does not affect 
orthographic learning.

Staels E(1), Van den Broeck W(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical and Lifespan Psychology, Faculty of Psychology and 
Educational Sciences, Vrije Universiteit Brussel Brussels, Belgium.

This article reports two studies that investigate short-term memory (STM) 
deficits in dyslexic children and explores the relationship between STM and 
reading acquisition. In the first experiment, 36 dyslexic children and 61 
control children performed an item STM task and a serial order STM task. The 
results of this experiment show that dyslexic children do not suffer from a 
specific serial order STM deficit. In addition, the results demonstrate that 
phonological processing skills are as closely related to both item STM and 
serial order STM. However, non-verbal intelligence was more strongly involved in 
serial order STM than in item STM. In the second experiment, the same two STM 
tasks were administered and reading acquisition was assessed by measuring 
orthographic learning in a group of 188 children. The results of this study show 
that orthographic learning is exclusively related to item STM and not to order 
STM. It is concluded that serial order STM is not the right place to look for a 
causal explanation of reading disability, nor for differences in word reading 
acquisition.

DOI: 10.3389/fnhum.2014.00732
PMCID: PMC4172101
PMID: 25294996


1345. J Child Neurol. 2015 Mar;30(4):417-22. doi: 10.1177/0883073814550827. Epub 2014 
Oct 7.

Assessment of cognitive function in children with beta-thalassemia major: a 
cross-sectional study.

Raafat N(1), El Safy U(2), Khater N(2), Hassan T(3), Hassan B(2), Siam A(2), 
Youssef A(1), El Shabrawy A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Zagazig University, Zagazig, Egypt.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, Zagazig University, Zagazig, Egypt.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, Zagazig University, Zagazig, Egypt 
dr.tamerhassan@yahoo.com.

Multiple risk factors contribute to cognitive impairment in children with 
β-thalassemia major. For a more refined understanding of this issue, we 
attempted to evaluate cognitive function in β-thalassemia major patients and 
identify the relationship between possible cognitive dysfunction and the 
following: demography, transfusion and chelation characteristics, iron overload, 
and disease complications. We studied 100 β-thalassemia major children and 100 
healthy controls who matched well in terms of age, sex, and socioeconomic 
status. All participants underwent psychometric assessment using Wechsler 
Intelligence Scale for Children-Third Edition, Arabic version. The mean 
Full-Scale IQ and Performance IQ of patients were significantly lower than those 
of controls, whereas no significant difference was found for Verbal IQ. No 
significant relationship existed between IQ and any of the assessed parameters. 
We concluded that Performance IQ, not Verbal IQ, was significantly affected in 
β-thalassemia major patients, but there was no clear association between IQ and 
any of the parameters.

© The Author(s) 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/0883073814550827
PMID: 25296920 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1346. Indian J Pediatr. 2014 Dec;81 Suppl 2:S173-8. doi: 10.1007/s12098-014-1591-4. 
Epub 2014 Oct 10.

ICD-10 and alternative diagnostic criteria for childhood autism among children 
with intellectual disability.

Thomas N(1), Singh A, Sankaran S, Russell PS, Tsheringla S, Viswanathan SA, Nair 
MK.

Author information:
(1)Child and Adolescent Psychiatry Unit, Department of Psychiatry, Vellore, 632 
002, Tamil Nadu, India.

OBJECTIVES: The diagnosis of Childhood Autism (CA) among children with 
Intellectual Disability (ID) based on clinical criteria validated for 
populations with average intelligence compromises it's diagnostic accuracy in 
this special population. This study documents the diagnostic accuracy of ICD-10 
and alternative criteria for CA in ID population.
METHODS: Consensus clinical diagnosis of autism made by a multi-disciplinary 
team as the reference data were extracted from the case notes and psychological 
tests details by two trainee psychologists, and ICD-10 based clinical diagnosis, 
demographics, ID, CA related data documented independently of the psychiatrist. 
The appropriate statistical analyses were completed.
RESULTS: Repetitive behaviors formed the most common symptom cluster. The high 
internal consistency (κ = 0.75) among the three groups of ICD-10 symptoms 
indicate their usefulness in the diagnosis of CA among children with ID, but 
significantly more children with ID failed to meet the ICD-10 criteria for CA. 
The fourth alternative criteria had the highest concordance with the reference 
standard (100%) and the first alternative criteria had the highest agreement 
with the reference standard (κ = 0.88) in identifying CA among ID. The 
diagnostic accuracy of all the alternative criteria was significantly better 
than that of ICD-10 with the first alternative criteria having the best 
diagnostic accuracy (Sn = 98%; Sp = 100%; PPV = 1; NPV =0.83) closest to the 
reference standard.
CONCLUSIONS: The symptom clusters in ICD-10 for CA should be retained, however 
reorganising the diagnostic criteria is required for diagnosing CA accurately 
among children with ID. The first alternative criteria can significantly improve 
the case identifying ability and diagnostic accuracy altering there by the 
epidemiological data on Childhood Autism among children with Intellectual 
Disability.

DOI: 10.1007/s12098-014-1591-4
PMID: 25297645 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1347. Evol Psychol. 2014 Jun 3;12(3):549-69.

Covert sexual signaling: human flirtation and implications for other social 
species.

Gersick A(1), Kurzban R(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Research in Cognitive Science, Department of Psychology, 
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(2)Department of Psychology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.

According to signaling theory and a large body of supporting evidence, males 
across many taxa produce courtship signals that honestly advertise their 
quality. The cost of producing or performing these signals maintains signal 
honesty, such that females are typically able to choose the best males by 
selecting those that produce the loudest, brightest, longest, or otherwise 
highest-intensity signals, using signal strength as a measure of quality. Set 
against this background, human flirting behavior, characterized by its frequent 
subtlety or covertness, is mysterious. Here we propose that the explanation for 
subtle and ambiguous signals in human courtship lies in socially imposed costs 
that (a) vary with social context and (b) are amplified by the unusual ways in 
which language makes all interactions potentially public. Flirting is a class of 
courtship signaling that conveys the signaler's intentions and desirability to 
the intended receiver while minimizing the costs that would accompany an overt 
courtship attempt. This proposal explains humans' taxonomically unusual 
courtship displays and generates a number of novel predictions for both humans 
and non-human social animals. Individuals who are courting should vary the 
intensity of their signals to suit the level of risk attached to the particular 
social configuration, and receivers may assess this flexible matching of signal 
to context as an indicator of the signaler's broader behavioral flexibility and 
social intelligence.

PMID: 25299992 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1348. Soc Neurosci. 2015 Apr;10(2):153-65. doi: 10.1080/17470919.2014.969406. Epub 
2014 Oct 10.

Emotional processing in Colombian ex-combatants and its relationship with 
empathy and executive functions.

Tobón C(1), Ibañez A, Velilla L, Duque J, Ochoa J, Trujillo N, Decety J, Pineda 
D.

Author information:
(1)a Neuroscience Group , Medical School, University of Antioquia , Medellín , 
Colombia.

In this work, the neural correlates of emotional processing in Colombian 
ex-combatants with different empathy profiles were compared to normal controls 
matched for age, gender and educational level. Forty ex-combatants and 20 non 
ex-combatants were recruited for this study. Empathy levels as well as executive 
functions were measured. Empathy level was used to create three groups. Group 1 
(G1) included ex-combatants with normal empathy scores, and Group 2 included 
ex-combatants with low scores on at least one empathy sub-scales. In control 
group (Ctrl), participants with no antecedents of being combatants and with 
normal scores in empathy were included. Age, gender, educational and 
intelligence quotients level were controlled among groups. event-related 
potentials (ERPs) were recorded while individuals performed an affective picture 
processing task that included positive, neutral and negative emotional stimuli, 
which elicit an early modulation of emotion categorization (Early Posterior 
Negativity (EPN)) and late evaluative process (LPP). EPN differences were found 
among affective categories, but no group effects were observed at this 
component. LPP showed a main effect of category and group (higher amplitudes in 
ex-combatants). There was an inverse correlation between empathy and executive 
functions scores and ERPs. Results are discussed according to the impact of 
emotional processing on empathy profile.

DOI: 10.1080/17470919.2014.969406
PMID: 25302548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1349. Drug Test Anal. 2015 Mar;7(3):241-6. doi: 10.1002/dta.1729. Epub 2014 Oct 9.

Differentiation of South American crack and domestic (US) crack cocaine via 
headspace-gas chromatography/mass spectrometry.

Colley VL(1), Casale JF.

Author information:
(1)Special Testing and Research Laboratory, Drug Enforcement Administration, 
22624 Dulles Summit Court, Dulles, VA, 20166-9509.

South American 'crack' cocaine, produced directly from coca leaf, can be 
distinguished from US domestically produced crack on the basis of occluded 
solvent profiles. In addition, analysis of domestically produced crack indicates 
the solvents that were used for cocaine hydrochloride (HCl) processing in South 
America. Samples of cocaine base (N=3) from South America and cocaine from the 
USA (N=157 base, N=88 HCl) were analyzed by headspace-gas chromatography-mass 
spectrometry (HS-GC-MS) to determine their solvent profiles. Each cocaine HCl 
sample was then converted to crack cocaine using the traditional crack 
production method and re-examined by HS-GC-MS. The resulting occluded solvent 
profiles were then compared to their original HCl solvent profiles. Analysis of 
the corresponding crack samples confirmed the same primary processing solvents 
found in the original HCl samples, but at reduced levels. Domestically seized 
crack samples also contained reduced levels of base-to-HCl conversion solvents. 
In contrast, analysis of South American crack samples confirmed the presence of 
low to high boiling hydrocarbons and no base-to-HCl conversion solvents. The 
presented study showed analysis of crack cocaine samples provides data on which 
processing solvents were originally utilized in the production of cocaine HCl in 
South America, prior to conversion to crack cocaine. Determination of processing 
solvents provides valuable information to the counter-drug intelligence 
community and assists the law enforcement community in determining cocaine 
distribution and trafficking routes throughout the world.

Published 2014. This article is a U.S. Government work and is in the public 
domain in the USA.

DOI: 10.1002/dta.1729
PMID: 25303034 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1350. Br J Haematol. 2015 Feb;168(4):553-6. doi: 10.1111/bjh.13179. Epub 2014 Oct 10.

Volume of white matter hyperintensities is an independent predictor of 
intelligence quotient and processing speed in children with sickle cell disease.

van der Land V(1), Hijmans CT, de Ruiter M, Mutsaerts HJ, Cnossen MH, Engelen M, 
Majoie CB, Nederveen AJ, Grootenhuis MA, Fijnvandraat K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatric Haematology, Emma Children's Hospital, Academic 
Medical Centre, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Sickle cell disease can be complicated by cerebral white matter hyperintensities 
(WMHs), which are associated with diminished neurocognitive functioning. The 
influence of the total volume of WMHs on the degree of neurocognitive 
dysfunction has not yet been characterized. In our study of 38 patients (mean 
age 12·5 years) we demonstrated that a higher volume of WMHs was associated with 
lower full-scale intelligence quotient (IQ), verbal IQ, Processing Speed Index 
and more fatigue. Our results suggest that volume of WMHs is an additional 
parameter to take into account when planning individual diagnostic and treatment 
options.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/bjh.13179
PMID: 25303108 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1351. West Indian Med J. 2014 Mar;63(2):159-66. doi: 10.7727/wimj.2013.124. Epub 2014 
Mar 12.

Exploring emotional intelligence in a Caribbean medical school.

Sa B(1), Baboolal N(2), Williams S(1), Ramsewak S(3).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Medical Sciences Education, Faculty of Medical Sciences, The 
University of the West Indies, St Augustine, Trinidad and Tobago.
(2)Psychiatry Unit, Department of Clinical Medical Sciences, Faculty of Medical 
Sciences, The University of the West Indies, St Augustine, Trinidad and Tobago. 
nelleen.baboolal@sta.uwi.edu.
(3)Dean, Faculty of Medical Sciences, The University of the West Indies, St 
Augustine, Trinidad and Tobago.

OBJECTIVE: To explore the emotional intelligence (EI) in medical students in a 
Caribbean medical school and investigate its association with gender, age, year 
of study and ethnicity.
DESIGN AND METHODS: A cross-sectional design using convenient sampling of 304 
years two to five undergraduate medical students at the School of Medicine, the 
University of the West Indies (UWI), St Augustine campus, was conducted. The 
Mayer-Salovey-Caruso Emotional Intelligence Test (MSCEIT-V2.0) was administered 
to test four branches of EI: perceiving emotions, facilitating thought, 
understanding emotions and managing emotions. Data were analysed using SPSS 
version 19. T-test, analysis of variance (ANOVA) and r (product moment 
correlation) were calculated to establish the effects of selected variables 
(gender, age, year of study and ethnicity) on total and sub-scales EI scores and 
tested against 0.05 and 0.01 significance levels.
RESULTS: The total mean score for EI fell within the average according to MSCEIT 
standards. Gender analysis showed significantly higher scores for males and for 
younger age groups (< 25 years). Year of study and ethnicity did not yield any 
significant effect.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings of higher EI scores in males and younger students 
are unusual, given the well-publicized stereotype of the Caribbean male and the 
perception that advancing age brings maturity and emotional stability. It would 
be valuable to widen this study by including other UWI campuses and offshore 
medical schools in the Caribbean. This preliminary study examined a sample of 
medical students from a well-established Caribbean medical school. Since EI is 
considered to be important in the assessment and training of medical 
undergraduates, consideration should be given to introducing interventions aimed 
at increasing EI.

OBJETIVO: Explorar la inteligencia emocional (IE) en estudiantes de medicina en 
una Escuela de Medicina del Caribe, e investigar su asociación con el género, la 
edad, el año de estudio y el origen étnico.
DISEÑO Y MÉTODOS: Se llevó a cabo un diseño transversal usando un muestreo 
conveniente de 304 estudiantes de medicina de segundo a quinto año de la Escuela 
de Medicina, de la Universidad de West Indies (UWI), campus de San Agustín. Se 
aplicó la prueba de inteligencia emocional Mayer-Salovey-Caruso (MSCEIT-V2.0) 
para investigar cuatro áreas de la IE, a saber: percepción de las emociones, 
facilitación del pensamiento, entendimiento de las emociones, y manejo de las 
emociones. Los datos fueron analizados utilizando el SPSS versión 19. Se 
calcularon el T-test, el análisis de varianza (ANOVA) y r (correlación del 
momento del producto) para establecer los efectos de las variables seleccionadas 
(género, edad, años de estudio y etnicidad) sobre las puntuaciones totales y de 
las subescalas de la IE, y se probaron contra los niveles de significación 0.05 
y 0.01.
RESULTADOS: La puntuación media total para IE cayó dentro del promedio según las 
normas de MSCEIT. El análisis de género mostró puntuaciones significativamente 
mayores para los hombres y para los grupos de edad más joven (< 25 años). El año 
de estudio del estudiante y el origen étnico no arrojaron ningún efecto 
significativo.
CONCLUSIONES: Estos hallazgos de puntuaciones más altas de la IE en los varones 
y los estudiantes más jóvenes son inusuales, dado el estereotipo bien divulgado 
del hombre del Caribe y la percepción de que la edad avanzada aporta madurez y 
estabilidad emocional. Sería valioso ampliar este estudio mediante la inclusión 
de otros campuses de UWI y escuelas de medicina offshore en el Caribe. Este 
estudio preliminar examinó una muestra de estudiantes de medicina de una escuela 
médica del Caribe bien establecida. Puesto que la IE se considera importante en 
la evaluación y capacitación de los estudiantes de medicina, debe tomarse en 
consideración el introducir intervenciones destinadas a aumentarla.

DOI: 10.7727/wimj.2013.124
PMCID: PMC4655646
PMID: 25303251


1352. Epilepsy Res. 2014 Dec;108(10):1845-52. doi: 10.1016/j.eplepsyres.2014.09.010. 
Epub 2014 Sep 22.

Developmental outcome after surgery in focal cortical dysplasia patients with 
early-onset epilepsy.

Kimura N(1), Takahashi Y(2), Shigematsu H(1), Imai K(1), Ikeda H(1), Ootani 
H(1), Takayama R(1), Mogami Y(1), Kimura N(1), Baba K(1), Matsuda K(1), Tottori 
T(1), Usui N(1), Inoue Y(1).

Author information:
(1)National Epilepsy Center, Shizuoka Institute of Epilepsy and Neurological 
Disorder, NHO, 886 Urushiyama, Aoi-Ku, Shizuoka, Shizuoka, Japan.
(2)National Epilepsy Center, Shizuoka Institute of Epilepsy and Neurological 
Disorder, NHO, 886 Urushiyama, Aoi-Ku, Shizuoka, Shizuoka, Japan. Electronic 
address: takahashi-ped@umin.ac.jp.

The purpose of this study was to investigate the developmental outcome after 
surgery for early-onset epilepsy in patients with focal cortical dysplasia 
(FCD). Among 108 patients with histopathologically confirmed FCD operated 
between 1985 and 2008, we selected 17 patients with epilepsy onset up to 3 years 
of age. Development was evaluated by the developmental quotient or intelligence 
quotient (DQ-IQ) and mental age was measured by the Mother-Child Counseling baby 
test or the Tanaka-Binet scale of intelligence. Postsurgical development outcome 
was evaluated by the changes in DQ-IQ and mental age as well as rate of increase 
in mental age (RIMA) after surgery. RIMA was calculated as the increase in 
mental age per chronological year (months/year; normal average rate: 12 
months/year). Age at epilepsy onset of 17 patients ranged from 15 days to 36 
months (mean±SD, 11.0±10.0 months). Age at surgery ranged from 18 to 145 months 
(75.1±32.4 months). Evaluation just before surgery showed that 13 of 17 (76.4%) 
patients had DQ-IQ below 70. Ten patients (58.8%) were seizure-free throughout 
the postsurgical follow-up period. After surgery, DQ-IQ was maintained within 10 
points of the presurgical level in 13 patients (76.4%), and increased by more 
than 10 points in one patient (5.9%). After surgery, RIMA in patients with 
Engel's class I (7.5±3.8) was higher than patients with Engel's class II-IV 
(2.6±3.4) (unpaired t-test with Welch's correction, t=2.99, df=15, p=0.0092). 
RIMA was particularly low in two patients with spasm. In four patients with 
presurgical DQ-IQ<70, seizure-free after surgery and without spasm, DQ-IQ did 
not increase but RIMA improved from 3.6±2.8 before surgery to 6.9±2.5 
months/year after surgery. RIMA became better from 2 years after surgery. In 
four patients with presurgical DQ-IQ≥70 and no spasm, two showed the same or 
higher RIMA than normal average after surgery. In 58.8% of FCD patients with 
early onset epilepsy, epilepsy surgery effectively controlled seizures, and in 
82.3% of patients, epilepsy surgery preserved or improved development. Residual 
seizures after surgery and lower DQ-IQ before surgery might be potential risk 
factors for poor development after surgery. In patients of Engel's class I with 
lower presurgical DQ-IQ, catch-up increase in mental age was observed after two 
years following surgery.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eplepsyres.2014.09.010
PMID: 25304919 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1353. J Theor Biol. 2015 Jan 21;365:1-11. doi: 10.1016/j.jtbi.2014.09.036. Epub 2014 
Oct 8.

Indirect reciprocity with optional interactions.

Ghang W(1), Nowak MA(2).

Author information:
(1)Program for Evolutionary Dynamics, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA 02138, 
USA; Department of Mathematics, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA 02138, USA; 
National Institute for Mathematical Sciences (NIMS), Daejeon, Republic of Korea.
(2)Program for Evolutionary Dynamics, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA 02138, 
USA; Department of Mathematics, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA 02138, USA; 
Department of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology, Harvard University, 
Cambridge, MA 02138, USA. Electronic address: martin_nowak@harvard.edu.

Indirect reciprocity is a mechanism for the evolution of cooperation that is 
relevant for prosocial behavior among humans. Indirect reciprocity means that my 
behavior towards you also depends on what you have done to others. Indirect 
reciprocity is associated with the evolution of social intelligence and human 
language. Most approaches to indirect reciprocity assume obligatory 
interactions, but here we explore optional interactions. In any one round a game 
between two players is offered. A cooperator accepts a game unless the 
reputation of the other player indicates a defector. For a game to take place, 
both players must accept. In a game between a cooperator and a defector, the 
reputation of the defector is revealed to all players with probability Q. After 
a sufficiently large number of rounds the identity of all defectors is known and 
cooperators are no longer exploited. The crucial condition for evolution of 
cooperation can be written as hQB>1, where h is the average number of rounds per 
person and B=(b/c)-1 specifies the benefit-to-cost ratio. We analyze both 
stochastic and deterministic evolutionary game dynamics. We study two extensions 
that deal with uncertainty: hesitation and malicious gossip.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtbi.2014.09.036
PMID: 25305556 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1354. Front Psychiatry. 2014 Sep 25;5:135. doi: 10.3389/fpsyt.2014.00135. eCollection 
2014.

A false-positive detection bias as a function of state and trait schizotypy in 
interaction with intelligence.

Grant P(1), Balser M(1), Munk AJ(1), Linder J(1), Hennig J(1).

Author information:
(1)Personality Psychology and Individual Differences, Department of Psychology, 
Justus-Liebig-University Giessen , Giessen , Germany.

Hallucinatory experiences are by far not limited to patients with clinical 
psychosis. A number of internal and external factors may bring about such 
experiences in healthy individuals, whereby the personality trait of (positive) 
schizotypy is a major mediator of individual differences. Psychotic experiences 
are defined as associating abnormal meaning to real but objectively irrelevant 
perceptions. Especially, the ambiguity of a stimulus correlates positively with 
the likelihood of abnormal interpretation, and intelligence is believed to have 
an important influence and act as protective against clinical psychosis in 
highly schizotypic individuals. In this study, we presented 131 healthy 
participants with 216 15-letter strings containing either a word, a non-word, or 
only random letters and asked them to report, whether or not they believed to 
have seen a word. The aim was to replicate findings that participants with high 
values in positive schizotypy on the trait-level make more false-positive errors 
and assess the role of stimulus-ambiguity and verbal intelligence. Additionally, 
we wanted to examine whether the same effect could be shown for indices of state 
schizotypy. Our results support findings that both state and trait positive 
schizotypy explain significant variance in "seeing things that are not there" 
and that the properties of individual stimuli have additional strong effects on 
the false-positive hit rates. Finally, we found that verbal intelligence and 
positive schizotypy interact with stimulus-ambiguity in the production of 
false-positive perceptions.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyt.2014.00135
PMCID: PMC4174737
PMID: 25309464


1355. Front Psychol. 2014 Sep 15;5:935. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.00935. eCollection 
2014.

Emotional intelligence and the Occupational Personality Questionnaire (OPQ).

Furnham A(1), Race MC(1), Rosen A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical, Educational, and Health Psychology, University 
College London London, UK.

This study explores the relationship between the Bar-on EQ-I and the 
Occupational Personality Questionnaire OPQ32i to determine if there is a link 
between self- and other-reported Emotional Intelligence and personality traits. 
Data was obtained from 329 managers working in the IT and Finance sectors and 
included multi-source (360°) measures of Emotional Intelligence. Results 
indicated construct overlap and correlations between some elements of Emotional 
Intelligence and the OPQ32i with a stronger relationship between 360 measures of 
Emotional Intelligence and personality. On both the self-report measure of EQ-I 
and the 360 measure the mood scale showed a strongest link with personality 
factors. Measures of Emotional Intelligence which include a 360 component may 
thus provide a more useful indicator of an individual's ability to manage their 
own feelings and those of others.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.00935
PMCID: PMC4164094
PMID: 25309468


1356. Front Psychol. 2014 Sep 11;5:1018. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.01018. eCollection 
2014.

Crossword expertise as recognitional decision making: an artificial intelligence 
approach.

Thanasuan K(1), Mueller ST(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cognitive and Learning Sciences, Michigan Technological 
University Houghton, MI, USA.

THE SKILLS REQUIRED TO SOLVE CROSSWORD PUZZLES INVOLVE TWO IMPORTANT ASPECTS OF 
LEXICAL MEMORY: semantic information in the form of clues that indicate the 
meaning of the answer, and orthographic patterns that constrain the 
possibilities but may also provide hints to possible answers. Mueller and 
Thanasuan (2013) proposed a model accounting for the simple memory access 
processes involved in solving individual crossword clues, but expert solvers 
also bring additional skills and strategies to bear on solving complete puzzles. 
In this paper, we developed an computational model of crossword solving that 
incorporates strategic and other factors, and is capable of solving crossword 
puzzles in a human-like fashion, in order to understand the complete set of 
skills needed to solve a crossword puzzle. We compare our models to human expert 
and novice solvers to investigate how different strategic and structural factors 
in crossword play impact overall performance. Results reveal that expert 
crossword solving relies heavily on fluent semantic memory search and retrieval, 
which appear to allow experts to take better advantage of orthographic-route 
solutions, and experts employ strategies that enable them to use orthographic 
information. Furthermore, other processes central to traditional AI models 
(error correction and backtracking) appear to be of less importance for human 
players.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.01018
PMCID: PMC4161049
PMID: 25309483


1357. Neurol Res. 2015 Apr;37(4):295-300. doi: 10.1179/1743132814Y.0000000449. Epub 
2014 Oct 13.

Behavioral characteristics and cognitive development among school age children 
born to women with epilepsy.

Güveli BT, Gürses C, Ataklı D, Akça Kalem Ş, Dirican A, Bebek N, Baykan B, 
Gökyiğit A.

INTRODUCTION: Greater risks of congenital malformation as well as cognitive and 
behavioral development in later childhood occur as a result of in utero exposure 
to antiepileptic drugs (AEDs). We examined the effects of AEDs on behavioral 
characteristics and cognitive development among school age children born to 
women with epilepsy.
METHODS: Children aged 6-15 years and born to women with epilepsy were enrolled 
in the study. Information was collected on the women's demographics and the 
details of their usage/non-usage of AEDs during pregnancy. The Wechsler 
Intelligence Scale for the Children-Revised (WICS-R) test was administered to 
the children. The Alexander IQ test and the Conner Parent Rating Scale (CPRS) 
were administered to the mothers. Comparisons were made between children who had 
been exposed and not exposed to AEDs in utero and if exposed, according to 
exposure to AED monotherapy or polytherapy. The mother's education level and IQ 
score and data from the same parent's siblings were evaluated with respect to 
consanguinity.
RESULTS: Forty-one children born to 28 women with epilepsy were enrolled. Seven 
mothers had multiple pregnancies. Twenty-three pregnancies (56%) were exposed to 
monotherapy and five (12·1%) to polytherapy. The remaining 13 (31·7%) were not 
exposed to AEDs. Maternal education level was a significant major factor in 
child IQ development (P < 0·05). The performance IQ-coding scale results were 
lower in children exposed to polytherapy than in children exposed to monotherapy 
in utero (P < 0·05). Although it is difficult to assert with confidence, the 
sibling assessment indicated a negative effect of valproate on IQ.
CONCLUSION: It is important that the AED dosage be reduced to a minimum to 
maintain seizure control for healthy cognitive and behavioral development of a 
child.

DOI: 10.1179/1743132814Y.0000000449
PMID: 25310353 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1358. J Sci Med Sport. 2015 Nov;18(6):697-703. doi: 10.1016/j.jsams.2014.09.007. Epub 
2014 Sep 21.

The relationship between motor skills and cognitive skills in 4-16 year old 
typically developing children: A systematic review.

van der Fels IM(1), Te Wierike SC(2), Hartman E(1), Elferink-Gemser MT(3), Smith 
J(1), Visscher C(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Human Movement Sciences, University Medical Center Groningen, 
University of Groningen, The Netherlands.
(2)Center for Human Movement Sciences, University Medical Center Groningen, 
University of Groningen, The Netherlands. Electronic address: 
s.c.m.te.wierike@umcg.nl.
(3)Center for Human Movement Sciences, University Medical Center Groningen, 
University of Groningen, The Netherlands; Institute for Studies in Sports and 
Exercise, HAN University of Applied Sciences, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVES: This review aims to give an overview of studies providing evidence 
for a relationship between motor and cognitive skills in typically developing 
children.
DESIGN: A systematic review.
METHODS: PubMed, Web of Science, and PsychINFO were searched for relevant 
articles. A total of 21 articles were included in this study. Methodological 
quality was independently assessed by two reviewers. Motor and cognitive skills 
were divided into six categories.
RESULTS: There was either no correlation in the literature, or insufficient 
evidence for or against many correlations between motor skills and cognitive 
skills. However, weak-to-strong evidence was found for some correlations between 
underlying categories of motor and cognitive skills, including complex motor 
skills and higher order cognitive skills. Furthermore, a stronger relationship 
between underlying categories of motor and cognitive skills was found in 
pre-pubertal children compared to pubertal children (older than 13 years).
CONCLUSIONS: Weak-to-strong relations were found between some motor and 
cognitive skills. The results suggest that complex motor intervention programs 
can be used to stimulate both motor and higher order cognitive skills in 
pre-pubertal children.

Copyright © 2014 Sports Medicine Australia. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jsams.2014.09.007
PMID: 25311901 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1359. IEEE Trans Cybern. 2015 Sep;45(9):1769-83. doi: 10.1109/TCYB.2014.2360205. Epub 
2014 Oct 8.

Fuzzy Integral-Based Gaze Control of a Robotic Head for Human Robot Interaction.

Yoo BS, Kim JH.

During the last few decades, as a part of effort to enhance natural human robot 
interaction (HRI), considerable research has been carried out to develop 
human-like gaze control. However, most studies did not consider hardware 
implementation, real-time processing, and the real environment, factors that 
should be taken into account to achieve natural HRI. This paper proposes a fuzzy 
integral-based gaze control algorithm, operating in real-time and the real 
environment, for a robotic head. We formulate the gaze control as a 
multicriteria decision making problem and devise seven human gaze-inspired 
criteria. Partial evaluations of all candidate gaze directions are carried out 
with respect to the seven criteria defined from perceived visual, auditory, and 
internal inputs, and fuzzy measures are assigned to a power set of the criteria 
to reflect the user defined preference. A fuzzy integral of the partial 
evaluations with respect to the fuzzy measures is employed to make global 
evaluations of all candidate gaze directions. The global evaluation values are 
adjusted by applying inhibition of return and are compared with the global 
evaluation values of the previous gaze directions to decide the final gaze 
direction. The effectiveness of the proposed algorithm is demonstrated with a 
robotic head, developed in the Robot Intelligence Technology Laboratory at Korea 
Advanced Institute of Science and Technology, through three interaction 
scenarios and three comparison scenarios with another algorithm.

DOI: 10.1109/TCYB.2014.2360205
PMID: 25312975 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1360. Arch Clin Neuropsychol. 2014 Dec;29(8):737-46. doi: 10.1093/arclin/acu048. Epub 
2014 Oct 13.

Comparing Canadian and American normative scores on the Wechsler Adult 
Intelligence Scale-Fourth Edition.

Harrison AG(1), Armstrong IT(2), Harrison LE(2), Lange RT(3), Iverson GL(4).

Author information:
(1)Regional Assessment & Resource Centre, Queens University, Kingston, ON, 
Canada harrisna@queensu.ca.
(2)Regional Assessment & Resource Centre, Queens University, Kingston, ON, 
Canada.
(3)Defense and Veterans Brain Injury Center, Walter Reed National Military 
Medical Center, Bethesda, MD, USA University of British Columbia, Vancouver, 
Canada.
(4)Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Harvard Medical School, & 
Red Sox Foundation and Massachusetts General Hospital Home Base Program, Boston, 
MA, USA Copeman Healthcare Centre, Vancouver, BC, Canada.

Psychologists practicing in Canada must decide which set of normative data to 
use for the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Fourth Edition (WAIS-IV). The 
purpose of this study was to compare the interpretive effects of applying 
American versus Canadian normative systems in a sample of 432 Canadian 
postsecondary-level students who were administered the WAIS-IV as part of an 
evaluation for a learning disability, attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder, 
or other mental health problems. Employing the Canadian normative system yielded 
IQ, Index, and subtest scores that were systematically lower than those obtained 
using the American norms. Furthermore, the percentage agreement in normative 
classifications, defined as American and Canadian index scores within five 
points or within the same classification range, was between 49% and 76%. 
Substantial differences are present between the American and Canadian WAIS-IV 
norms. Clinicians should consider carefully the implications regarding which 
normative system is most appropriate for specific types of evaluations.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. 
For permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/arclin/acu048
PMID: 25313225 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1361. PLoS One. 2014 Oct 14;9(10):e109585. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0109585. 
eCollection 2014.

Estimating the inbreeding depression on cognitive behavior: a population based 
study of child cohort.

Fareed M(1), Afzal M(1).

Author information:
(1)Human Genetics and Toxicology Laboratory, Section of Genetics, Department of 
Zoology, Faculty of Life Sciences, Aligarh Muslim University, Aligarh, Uttar 
Pradesh, India.

Erratum in
    PLoS One. 2014;9(12):e115393.

BACKGROUND: Cognitive ability tests are widely assumed to measure maximal 
intellectual performance and predictive associations between intelligence 
quotient (IQ) scores and later mental health problems. Very few epidemiologic 
studies have been done to demonstrate the relationship between familial 
inbreeding and modest cognitive impairments in children.
OBJECTIVE: We aimed to estimate the effect of inbreeding on children's cognitive 
behavior in comparison with non-inbred children.
METHODOLOGY: A cohort of 408 children (6 to 15 years of age) was selected from 
inbred and non-inbred families of five Muslim populations of Jammu region. The 
Wechsler Intelligence Scales for Children (WISC) was used to measure the verbal 
IQ (VIQ), performance IQ (PIQ) and full scale IQ (FSIQ). Family pedigrees were 
drawn to access the family history and children's inbred status in terms of 
coefficient of inbreeding (F).
RESULTS: We found significant decline in child cognitive abilities due to 
inbreeding and high frequency of mental retardation among offspring from inbred 
families. The mean differences (95% C.I.) were reported for the VIQ, being 
-22.00 (-24.82, -19.17), PIQ -26.92 (-29.96, -23.87) and FSIQ -24.47 
(-27.35,-21.59) for inbred as compared to non-inbred children (p<0.001) 
[corrected].The higher risk of being mentally retarded was found to be more 
obvious among inbred categories corresponding to the degree of inbreeding and 
the same accounts least for non-inbred children (p<0.0001). We observed an 
increase in the difference in mean values for VIQ, PIQ and FSIQ with the 
increase of inbreeding coefficient and these were found to be statistically 
significant (p<0.05). The regression analysis showed a fitness decline 
(depression) for VIQ (R2 = 0.436), PIQ (R2 = 0.468) and FSIQ (R2 = 0.464) with 
increasing inbreeding coefficients (p<0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: Our comprehensive assessment provides the evidence for inbreeding 
depression on cognitive abilities among children.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0109585
PMCID: PMC4196914
PMID: 25313490 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


1362. IEEE Trans Neural Netw Learn Syst. 2016 Aug;27(8):1631-42. doi: 
10.1109/TNNLS.2014.2360879. Epub 2014 Oct 13.

Improved Fault Classification in Series Compensated Transmission Line: 
Comparative Evaluation of Chebyshev Neural Network Training Algorithms.

Vyas BY, Das B, Maheshwari RP.

This paper presents the Chebyshev neural network (ChNN) as an improved 
artificial intelligence technique for power system protection studies and 
examines the performances of two ChNN learning algorithms for fault 
classification of series compensated transmission line. The training algorithms 
are least-square Levenberg-Marquardt (LSLM) and recursive least-square algorithm 
with forgetting factor (RLSFF). The performances of these algorithms are 
assessed based on their generalization capability in relating the fault current 
parameters with an event of fault in the transmission line. The proposed 
algorithm is fast in response as it utilizes postfault samples of three phase 
currents measured at the relaying end corresponding to half-cycle duration only. 
After being trained with only a small part of the generated fault data, the 
algorithms have been tested over a large number of fault cases with wide 
variation of system and fault parameters. Based on the studies carried out in 
this paper, it has been found that although the RLSFF algorithm is faster for 
training the ChNN in the fault classification application for series compensated 
transmission lines, the LSLM algorithm has the best accuracy in testing. The 
results prove that the proposed ChNN-based method is accurate, fast, easy to 
design, and immune to the level of compensations. Thus, it is suitable for 
digital relaying applications.

DOI: 10.1109/TNNLS.2014.2360879
PMID: 25314714 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1363. Psychiatr Pol. 2014 Jul-Aug;48(4):667-76.

[The profile of WISC-R scores in children with high-functioning autism].

[Article in Polish]

Zielinska M, Sterczynski R, Baginska A.

AIM: The aim of the study was to define the intellectual profile of Polish 
children suffering from autism. Our study was based on the results of previous 
research, mostly conducted in English-speaking countries. Although these earlier 
studies documented the intellectual profile of an autistic child, they also 
identified some discrepancies. Therefore, we decided to complement the 
discussion on autism with our data on intellectual functioning of autistic 
Polish children examined with a translated version of the intelligence test.
METHODS: The study followed a matching design. From among 191 children with 
autism and 1 400 without this diagnosis, we selected 34 pairs based on gender 
and age, and not differing by more than 10 points in terms of intelligence 
quotient. The intellectual profile of the studied children was determined with 
the WISC-R scale.
RESULTS: As expected, the intellectual profile of children with autism proved 
more variable than that of healthy controls. Children with autism scored lower 
on "Comprehension" scale and (at a threshold of statistical significance) on 
"Object assembly" scale, and achieved higher results on "Information" and "Block 
design" scales.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of our study confirmed the most typical observations 
from previous research conducted among an English-speaking population of 
autistic children. Polish autistic children did not differ significantly in 
terms of their quotients of verbal and non-verbal intelligence. However, the 
intellectual profile of autistic children showed higher variance compared to 
normally developing controls. Children with autism were more likely to score the 
lowest in the "Comprehension" subtest and the highest in the "Block design" 
subtest.

PMID: 25314795 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1364. Br J Nutr. 2014 Nov 28;112(10):1724-34. doi: 10.1017/S0007114514002207. Epub 
2014 Oct 15.

The association between obesity and fluid intelligence impairment is mediated by 
chronic low-grade inflammation.

Spyridaki EC(1), Simos P(2), Avgoustinaki PD(1), Dermitzaki E(1), Venihaki M(1), 
Bardos AN(3), Margioris AN(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Clinical Chemistry - Biochemistry, Department of Laboratory 
Medicine, School of Medicine, University of 
Crete,HeraklionGR-71003,Crete,Greece.
(2)Department of Psychiatry,School of Medicine, University of 
Crete,Heraklion,Crete,Greece.
(3)School of Applied Psychology and Counselor Education, University of Northern 
Colorado,Greeley,CO,USA.

Published evidence suggests that obesity impairs cognition. Development of 
chronic low-grade inflammation (CLGI) represents the earliest consequence of 
obesity. The present study investigated the association between obesity and 
fluid intelligence impairment and assessed the potential mediating role of CLGI 
and psychological (depression/anxiety symptoms), lifestyle (exercise) and 
physiological (metabolic dysfunction indices) factors in this association. 
Clinically healthy participants (n 188), grouped as per BMI, underwent cognitive 
(General Ability Measure for Adults), psychological (Beck Depression 
Inventory-II and State-Trait Anxiety Inventory) and activity (Godin leisure-time 
physical activity) measurements. Biochemical parameters included the following: 
(a) indices of CLGI (high-sensitivity C-reactive protein, erythrocyte 
sedimentation rate and fibrinogen); (b) insulin resistance (Homeostasis Model 
Assessment of Insulin Resistance index); (c) adiposity (plasma adiponectin). An 
inverse association between elevated BMI and fluid intelligence was observed, 
with obese participants displaying significantly poorer performance compared 
with age-matched normal-weight peers. Structural equation modelling results were 
consistent with a negative impact of obesity on cognition that was mediated by 
CLGI. The results of the present study support the hypothesis that reduced 
general cognitive ability is associated with obesity, an adverse effect mainly 
mediated by obesity-associated activation of innate immunity.

DOI: 10.1017/S0007114514002207
PMID: 25315424 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1365. Cogn Emot. 2015;29(7):1197-209. doi: 10.1080/02699931.2014.969683. Epub 2014 Oct 
15.

High intelligence prevents the negative impact of anxiety on working memory.

Chuderski A(1).

Author information:
(1)a Institute of Philosophy , Jagiellonian University , Krakow , Poland.

Using a large sample and the confirmatory factor analysis, the study 
investigated the relationships between anxiety, working memory (WM) and (fluid) 
intelligence. The study showed that the negative impact of anxiety on WM 
functioning diminishes with increasing intelligence, and that anxiety can 
significantly affect WM only in people below average intelligence. This effect 
could not be fully explained by the sheer differences in WM capacity (WMC), 
suggesting the importance of higher-level cognition in coping with anxiety. 
Although intelligence moderated the impact of anxiety on WM, it was only weakly 
related to anxiety. In contrast to previous studies, anxiety explained the 
substantial amount of WMC variance (17.8%) in less intelligent participants, but 
none of the variance in more intelligent ones. These results can be explained in 
terms of either increased motivation of intelligent but anxious people to cope 
with a WM task, or their ability to compensate decrements in WM.

DOI: 10.1080/02699931.2014.969683
PMID: 25316093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1366. Eur Child Adolesc Psychiatry. 2015 Jul;24(7):827-36. doi: 
10.1007/s00787-014-0627-7. Epub 2014 Oct 16.

GRIN2B predicts attention problems among disadvantaged children.

Riva V(1), Battaglia M, Nobile M, Cattaneo F, Lazazzera C, Mascheretti S, Giorda 
R, Mérette C, Émond C, Maziade M, Marino C.

Author information:
(1)Child Psychopathology Unit, Scientific Institute 'Eugenio Medea', Don L. 
Monza 20, Bosisio Parini (LC), Italy.

It is well established that adversities and GRIN2B (coding an 
N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit) are independently associated with 
behavioral and cognitive impairments in childhood. However, a high proportion of 
children exposed to adversities have good, long-term outcomes. We hypothesized 
that among children exposed to adversities, GRIN2B variants would predict the 
worst cognitive and behavioral outcomes. 6 single nucleotide polymorphisms of 
GRIN2B were genotyped in 625 children aged 6-11 years from an Italian 
community-based sample. The interacting effect of GRIN2B variants with 4 
measures of adversities [low socioeconomic status (SES), preterm delivery, 
maternal smoking during pregnancy, and absence of breastfeeding] was 
investigated upon blindly assessed cognitive abilities (vocabulary, block 
design, digit spans of Wechsler's Intelligence Scale, and Rey complex figure) 
and parents-rated behavioral problems (Child Behavior Checklist/6-18). Rs2268119 
× SES interaction (Hotelling's Trace = 0.07; F(12,1154) = 3.53; p = 0.00004) 
influenced behavior, with more attention problems among children in the 'either 
A/T or T/T genotype and low SES' group, compared to all other groups. This 
interaction effect was not significant in an independent, replication sample of 
475 subjects from an Italian community-based sample. GRIN2B variants predict 
children with the worst outcome in attention functioning among children exposed 
to low SES. Our findings, if replicated, could help in the identification of 
children with the highest risk and may prompt cost-effective 
preventive/treatment strategies.

DOI: 10.1007/s00787-014-0627-7
PMID: 25316095 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1367. Clin Drug Investig. 2014 Dec;34(12):857-69. doi: 10.1007/s40261-014-0235-9.

Management of cognitive determinants in senile dementia of Alzheimer's type: 
therapeutic potential of a novel polyherbal drug product.

Sadhu A(1), Upadhyay P, Agrawal A, Ilango K, Karmakar D, Singh GP, Dubey GP.

Author information:
(1)Collabrative programme, Institute of Medical Science, Banaras Hindu 
University, Varanasi, India, ananya.s.84@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: The enigmatic etiology of neurodegenerative diseases 
poses a challenge for the development of novel and efficient drugs. The 
objective of the present study was to evaluate the efficacy of a polyherbal 
(test) formulation on cognitive functions, inflammatory markers and oxidative 
stress in healthy elderly as well as senile dementia of Alzheimer's type (SDAT) 
patients.
METHOD: A randomized double-blind placebo- and active-controlled clinical trial 
was performed in healthy elderly subjects and SDAT patients with an age range of 
60-75 years. The polyherbal test formulation along with a placebo was given to 
healthy elderly subjects while the SDAT patients received either the test 
formulation containing extracts of Bacopa monnieri (whole plant), Hippophae 
rhamnoides (leaves and fruits) and Dioscorea bulbifera (bulbils) at a dose of 
500 mg or donepezil drug (Aricept) at a dose of 10 mg, twice daily, for a period 
of 12 months. After every three months, cognitive functions were assessed by 
determining the mini mental state examination (MMSE) score, digital symbol 
substitution (DSS; subtest of the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Revised), 
immediate and delayed word recall (digital memory apparatus-Medicaid systems, 
Chandigarh, India), attention span (Attention Span Apparatus-Medicaid systems, 
Chandigarh, India), functional activity questionnaire (FAQ) and depression 
(geriatric depression scale) scores. Further inflammatory markers and level of 
oxidative stress were analyzed using standard biochemical tests.
RESULTS: The trial was performed in 109 healthy subjects and 123 SDAT patients 
of whom 97 healthy subjects and 104 SDAT patients completed the study. 
Administration of the test formulation for a period of 12 months was effective 
in improving cognitive functions in the SDAT patients, when compared to the 
donepezil-treated group, as determined by the DSS (38.984 ± 3.016 vs 35.852 ± 
4.906, P = 0.0001), word recall immediate (3.594 ± 1.003 vs 2.794 ± 0.593, P < 
0.0001) and attention span (4.918 ± 1.239 vs 4.396 ± 0.913, P = 0.0208) scores. 
A significant improvement in the FAQ (11.873 ± 2.751 vs 9.801 ± 1.458, P < 
0.0001) and depression (16.387 ± 2.116 vs 21.006 ± 2.778, P < 0.0001) scores was 
also observed, whereas no significant differences were observed in the MMSE and 
word recall delayed scores. The level of inflammation and oxidative stress was 
markedly reduced in the SDAT patients treated with the test formulation when 
compared to the donepezil-treated group indicating a likely mechanism of action 
of the test formulation (homocysteine 30.22 ± 3.87 vs 44.73 ± 7.11 nmol/L, P < 
0.0001; C-reactive protein [CRP] 4.751 ± 1.149 vs 5.887 ± 1.049 mg/L, P < 
0.0001; tumour necrosis factor alpha [TNF-α] 1139.45 ± 198.87 vs 1598.77 ± 
298.52 pg/ml, P < 0.0001; superoxide dismutase [SOD] 1145.92 ± 228.75 vs 1296 ± 
225.72 U/g Hb, P = 0.0013; glutathione peroxidase [GPx] 20.78 ± 3.14 vs 25.99 ± 
4.11 U/g Hb, P < 0.0001; glutathione [GSH] 9.358 ± 2.139 vs 6.831 ± 1.139 U/g 
Hb, P < 0.0001; thiobarbituric acid reactive substances [TBARS] 131.62 ± 29.68 
vs 176.40 ± 68.11 nmol/g Hb, P < 0.0001). Similarly, when healthy elderly 
subjects treated with the test formulation for 12 months were compared to the 
placebo group, a significant (P < 0.001) improvement in cognitive measures 
(MMSE, DSS, word recall delayed but not immediate, attention span, FAQ and 
depression scores) and a reduction in inflammation (reduction in homocysteine, 
CRP, IL-6 and TNF-α levels) and oxidative stress levels (reduction in SOD, GPx 
and TBARS and increase in GSH) was observed. This indicated a protective effect 
of the test formulation in managing cognitive decline associated with the ageing 
process.
CONCLUSION: The results of this study demonstrate the therapeutic potential of 
this novel polyherbal formulation for the management and treatment of SDAT.

DOI: 10.1007/s40261-014-0235-9
PMID: 25316430 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1368. Indian J Psychiatry. 2014 Jul;56(3):283-8. doi: 10.4103/0019-5545.140645.

Neuro-cognitive functioning in unaffected siblings of patients with bipolar 
disorder: Comparison with bipolar patients and healthy controls.

Nehra R(1), Grover S(1), Sharma S(1), Sharma A(1), Sarkar S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and 
Research, Chandigarh, India.

AIM: Neurocognitive tests can provide reliable endophenotypes for bipolar 
disorder (BD). The aim of this study was to compare the neurocognitive 
functioning of unaffected siblings of patients of bipolar affective disorder 
(BPAD) with that of patients with BD and a group of healthy controls.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 20 unaffected siblings of patients with BD-I, 
20 patients of BD-I who were currently in remission and a group of 20 healthy 
control subjects were assessed for neurocognitive functions using Wisconsin Card 
Sorting Test, Brief Visuospatial Memory Test-Revised, Hopkins Verbal Learning 
Test-Revised and Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale Digit Symbol Test.
RESULTS: Compared to healthy controls, unaffected siblings of patients with BD 
performed poorly on tests of verbal learning, but no significant differences 
were seen between the two groups for executive functions, visual learning and 
psychomotor speed, concentration and graphomotor abilities. Compared to 
unaffected siblings, patients with BD performed poorly on the tests of executive 
functions, visual memory, verbal memory, psychomotor speed, concentration, and 
graphomotor abilities.
CONCLUSION: Verbal memory can serve as an endophenotype of bipolar disorder.

DOI: 10.4103/0019-5545.140645
PMCID: PMC4181184
PMID: 25316940

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None declared


1369. Sensors (Basel). 2014 Oct 14;14(10):19057-85. doi: 10.3390/s141019057.

Ambient intelligence context-based cross-layer design in wireless sensor 
networks.

Liu Y(1), Seet BC(2), Al-Anbuky A(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Electrical & Electronic Engineering, Auckland University of 
Technology, Auckland 1010, New Zealand. yliu@aut.ac.nz.
(2)Department of Electrical & Electronic Engineering, Auckland University of 
Technology, Auckland 1010, New Zealand. bseet@aut.ac.nz.
(3)Department of Electrical & Electronic Engineering, Auckland University of 
Technology, Auckland 1010, New Zealand. aalanbuk@aut.ac.nz.

By exchanging information directly between non-adjacent protocol layers, 
cross-layer (CL) interaction can significantly improve and optimize network 
performances such as energy efficiency and delay. This is particularly important 
for wireless sensor networks (WSNs) where sensor devices are energy-constrained 
and deployed for real-time monitoring applications. Existing CL schemes mainly 
exploit information exchange between physical, medium access control (MAC), and 
routing layers, with only a handful involving application layer. For the first 
time, we proposed a framework for CL optimization based on user context of 
ambient intelligence (AmI) application and an ontology-based context modeling 
and reasoning mechanism. We applied the proposed framework to jointly optimize 
MAC and network (NET) layer protocols for WSNs. Extensive evaluations show that 
the resulting optimization through context awareness and CL interaction for both 
MAC and NET layer protocols can yield substantial improvements in terms of 
throughput, packet delivery, delay, and energy performances.

DOI: 10.3390/s141019057
PMCID: PMC4239940
PMID: 25317760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1370. Appl Neuropsychol Child. 2015;4(4):230-6. doi: 10.1080/21622965.2013.877392. 
Epub 2014 Oct 15.

Cognitive and Adaptive Skill Profile Differences in Children With 
Attention-Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder With and Without Comorbid Fetal Alcohol 
Spectrum Disorder.

Boseck JJ(1), Davis AS(2), Cassady JC(2), Finch WH(2), Gelder BC(3).

Author information:
(1)a Department of Neuropsychology , Trinity Health , Minot , North Dakota.
(2)b Department of Educational Psychology , Ball State University , Muncie , 
Indiana.
(3)c Department of Neuropsychology , Center for Neurobehavioral Services , Fort 
Wayne , Indiana.

Children with fetal alcohol spectrum disorder (FASD) often present with comorbid 
attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), which can complicate diagnosis 
and treatment planning. This study investigated the cognitive and adaptive 
profiles of 81 children with ADHD/FASD and 147 children with ADHD. Multivariate 
analysis of variance and follow-up discriminant analysis indicated that the two 
groups had similar profiles on the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for 
Children-Fourth Edition and Vineland Adaptive Behavior Scales, although the 
children with comorbid ADHD/FASD demonstrated significantly more impairment in 
verbal ability, perceptual reasoning, working memory, processing speed, and 
overall adaptive skills. The results suggested that when compared with children 
with ADHD alone, children with ADHD/FASD exhibit significantly more impaired 
cognitive processing and adaptive skill deficits that are essential for school 
success and healthy social, behavioral, and emotional functioning. Research 
evaluating the profiles of these groups is likely to facilitate earlier and more 
accurate diagnosis and intervention.

DOI: 10.1080/21622965.2013.877392
PMID: 25318015 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1371. J Healthc Risk Manag. 2014;34(2):31-42. doi: 10.1002/jhrm.21156.

Analysis of patient injury based on anesthesiology closed claims data from a 
major malpractice insurer.

Ranum D(1), Ma H, Shapiro FE, Chang B, Urman RD.

Author information:
(1)The Doctors Company, Northeast region.

INTRODUCTION: The analysis of malpractice claims can provide risk managers with 
a detailed view of patient mortality and morbidity. The data comes from many 
institutions, encompasses a diverse group of practitioners and practice 
settings, and contains detailed clinical information. Analysis can help identify 
patterns of injury, risk factors, and rare and sentinel events.
METHODS: We examined most recent anesthesia closed claims data collected by The 
Doctors Company, a large national malpractice insurer. We analyzed data from 
claims closed between 2007 and 2012. Each claim underwent a review by physician 
and nurse experts, and was then coded using the Comprehensive Risk Intelligence 
Tool. Injury distribution and association between the injury and patient 
comorbidity were also examined.
RESULTS: A total of 607 claims were analyzed. Most frequent injuries were teeth 
damage (20.8%), death (18.3%), nerve damage (13.5%), organ damage (12.7%), pain 
(10.9%), and arrest (10.7%). Obesity was most frequently identified as a 
contributing factor leading to a claim. Injury-to-claim rates were highest in 
hospitals with fewer than 100 beds, while ambulatory surgery centers had the 
lowest death-to-claim rate (12%). Average indemnity for an anesthesia claim was 
$309 066, compared to $291 000 for all physician specialties.
CONCLUSIONS: The most frequent claims were death and nerve damage when teeth 
damage was excluded. Obesity impacted anesthesia outcomes more frequently than 
did other comorbidities. Although there were fewer claims from the smaller 
hospitals, those claims had higher rates of mortality and nerve damage compared 
to larger-size hospitals. Further analysis is needed to evaluate these trends as 
well as impact of specific patient comorbidities on anesthesia outcomes.

© 2014 American Society for Healthcare Risk Management of the American Hospital 
Association.

DOI: 10.1002/jhrm.21156
PMID: 25319466 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1372. Appl Opt. 2014 Aug 20;53(24):5502-9. doi: 10.1364/AO.53.005502.

Swarm-based algorithm for phase unwrapping.

da Silva Maciel L, Albertazzi AG Jr.

A novel algorithm for phase unwrapping based on swarm intelligence is proposed. 
The algorithm was designed based on three main goals: maximum coverage of 
reliable information, focused effort for better efficiency, and reliable 
unwrapping. Experiments were performed, and a new agent was designed to follow a 
simple set of five rules in order to collectively achieve these goals. These 
rules consist of random walking for unwrapping and searching, ambiguity 
evaluation by comparing unwrapped regions, and a replication behavior 
responsible for the good distribution of agents throughout the image. The 
results were comparable with the results from established methods. The 
swarm-based algorithm was able to suppress ambiguities better than the 
flood-fill algorithm without relying on lengthy processing times. In addition, 
future developments such as parallel processing and better-quality evaluation 
present great potential for the proposed method.

DOI: 10.1364/AO.53.005502
PMID: 25321125


1373. Eur Arch Otorhinolaryngol. 2015 Nov;272(11):3157-62. doi: 
10.1007/s00405-014-3337-3. Epub 2014 Oct 17.

Use of data mining to predict significant factors and benefits of bilateral 
cochlear implantation.

Ramos-Miguel A(1)(2), Perez-Zaballos T(3)(4), Perez D(3)(4), Falconb JC(3)(4), 
Ramosb A(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)University of Las Palmas of Gran Canaria, Gran Canaria, Spain. 
aramos.gcc@gmail.com.
(2)Hearing Loss Unit, University Hospital Insular De Gran Canaria, Gran Canaria, 
Spain. aramos.gcc@gmail.com.
(3)University of Las Palmas of Gran Canaria, Gran Canaria, Spain.
(4)Hearing Loss Unit, University Hospital Insular De Gran Canaria, Gran Canaria, 
Spain.

Data mining (DM) is a technique used to discover pattern and knowledge from a 
big amount of data. It uses artificial intelligence, automatic learning, 
statistics, databases, etc. In this study, DM was successfully used as a 
predictive tool to assess disyllabic speech test performance in bilateral 
implanted patients with a success rate above 90%. 60 bilateral sequentially 
implanted adult patients were included in the study. The DM algorithms developed 
found correlations between unilateral medical records and Audiological test 
results and bilateral performance by establishing relevant variables based on 
two DM techniques: the classifier and the estimation. The nearest neighbor 
algorithm was implemented in the first case, and the linear regression in the 
second. The results showed that patients with unilateral disyllabic test results 
below 70% benefited the most from a bilateral implantation. Finally, it was 
observed that its benefits decrease as the inter-implant time increases.

DOI: 10.1007/s00405-014-3337-3
PMID: 25323153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1374. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 2015 Sep;86(9):1008-15. doi: 
10.1136/jnnp-2014-308571. Epub 2014 Oct 16.

Delayed and disorganised brain activation detected with magnetoencephalography 
after mild traumatic brain injury.

da Costa L(1), Robertson A(2), Bethune A(3), MacDonald MJ(2), Shek PN(4), Taylor 
MJ(5), Pang EW(6).

Author information:
(1)Division of Neurosurgery, Sunnybrook Hospital, University of Toronto, 
Toronto, Ontario, Canada Department of Medical Imaging, Sunnybrook Hospital, 
University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(2)Neurosciences and Mental Health, SickKids Research Institute, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada.
(3)Division of Neurosurgery, Sunnybrook Hospital, University of Toronto, 
Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(4)Military Medicine Section, Defence Research and Development Canada, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada.
(5)Neurosciences and Mental Health, SickKids Research Institute, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada Department of Diagnostic Imaging, Hospital for Sick Children, 
Toronto, Ontario, Canada Department of Medical Imaging, University of Toronto, 
Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(6)Neurosciences and Mental Health, SickKids Research Institute, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada Division of Neurology, Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada Department of Paediatrics, University of Toronto, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Awareness to neurocognitive issues after mild traumatic brain injury 
(mTBI) is increasing, but currently no imaging markers are available for mTBI. 
Advanced structural imaging recently showed microstructural tissue changes and 
axonal injury, mild but likely sufficient to lead to functional deficits. 
Magnetoencephalography (MEG) has high temporal and spatial resolution, combining 
structural and electrophysiological information, and can be used to examine 
brain activation patterns of regions involved with specific tasks.
METHODS: 16 adults with mTBI and 16 matched controls were submitted to 
neuropsychological testing (Wechsler Abbreviated Scale of Intelligence (WASI); 
Conners; Alcohol Use Disorders Identification Test (AUDIT); Generalised Anxiety 
Disorder Seven-item Scale (GAD-7); Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9); Symptom 
Checklist and Symptom Severity Score (SCAT2)) and MEG while tested for mental 
flexibility (Intra-Extra Dimensional set-shifting tasks). Three-dimensional maps 
were generated using synthetic aperture magnetometry beamforming analyses to 
identify differences in regional activation and activation times. Reaction times 
and accuracy between groups were compared using 2×2 mixed analysis of variance.
FINDINGS: While accuracy was similar, patients with mTBI reaction time was 
delayed and sequence of activation of brain regions disorganised, with 
involvement of extra regions such as the occipital lobes, not used by controls. 
Examination of activation time showed significant delays in the right insula and 
left posterior parietal cortex in patients with mTBI.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with mTBI showed significant delays in the activation of 
important areas involved in executive function. Also, more regions of the brain 
are involved in an apparent compensatory effort. Our study suggests that MEG can 
detect subtle neural changes associated with cognitive dysfunction and thus, may 
eventually be useful for capturing and tracking the onset and course of 
cognitive symptoms associated with mTBI.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not 
already granted under a licence) please go to 
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

DOI: 10.1136/jnnp-2014-308571
PMCID: PMC4552930
PMID: 25324505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1375. Front Psychol. 2014 Sep 29;5:1050. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.01050. eCollection 
2014.

Avoidant decision making in social anxiety: the interaction of angry faces and 
emotional responses.

Pittig A(1), Pawlikowski M(2), Craske MG(3), Alpers GW(4).

Author information:
(1)Chair of Clinical and Biological Psychology and Psychotherapy, Department of 
Psychology, School of Social Sciences, University of Mannheim Mannheim, Germany 
; Anxiety Disorders Research Center, University of California Los Angeles, CA, 
USA.
(2)General Psychology: Cognition, Department for Informatics and Applied 
Cognitive Science, University of Duisburg-Essen Essen, Germany.
(3)Anxiety Disorders Research Center, University of California Los Angeles, CA, 
USA.
(4)Chair of Clinical and Biological Psychology and Psychotherapy, Department of 
Psychology, School of Social Sciences, University of Mannheim Mannheim, Germany.

Recent research indicates that angry facial expressions are preferentially 
processed and may facilitate automatic avoidance response, especially in 
socially anxious individuals. However, few studies have examined whether this 
bias also expresses itself in more complex cognitive processes and behavior such 
as decision making. We recently introduced a variation of the Iowa Gambling Task 
which allowed us to document the influence of task-irrelevant emotional cues on 
rational decision making. The present study used a modified gambling task to 
investigate the impact of angry facial expressions on decision making in 38 
individuals with a wide range of social anxiety. Participants were to find out 
which choices were (dis-) advantageous to maximize overall gain. To create a 
decision conflict between approach of reward and avoidance of fear-relevant 
angry faces, advantageous choices were associated with angry facial expressions, 
whereas disadvantageous choices were associated with happy facial expressions. 
Results indicated that higher social avoidance predicted less advantageous 
decisions in the beginning of the task, i.e., when contingencies were still 
uncertain. Interactions with specific skin conductance responses further 
clarified that this initial avoidance only occurred in combination with elevated 
responses before choosing an angry facial expressions. In addition, an 
interaction between high trait anxiety and elevated responses to early losses 
predicted faster learning of an advantageous strategy. These effects were 
independent of intelligence, general risky decision-making, self-reported state 
anxiety, and depression. Thus, socially avoidant individuals who respond 
emotionally to angry facial expressions are more likely to show avoidance of 
these faces under uncertainty. This novel laboratory paradigm may be an 
appropriate analog for central features of social anxiety.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.01050
PMCID: PMC4178379
PMID: 25324792


1376. J Refract Surg. 2014 Aug;30(8):542-7. doi: 10.3928/1081597X-20140711-07.

Corneal enantiomorphism in normal and keratoconic eyes.

Saad A, Guilbert E, Gatinel D.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the ability to discriminate between normal and keratoconic 
corneas by analyzing intereye corneal asymmetry parameters and defining a score 
of similarity that outlines the normal range of asymmetry between right and left 
eyes.
METHODS: This prospective, non-randomized study included 102 normal corneas of 
51 patients and 64 keratoconic corneas of 32 patients. Topographic and 
tomographic parameters of the right and left eyes were extracted from an 
elevation and Placido-based corneal topography. Asymmetry was determined by 
subtracting the right eye value from the left eye value for each variable and by 
considering the absolute value of the result. A discriminant function was 
constructed to separate the normal and keratoconic groups.
RESULTS: The mean intereye asymmetry differences were statistically significant 
for all variables except the vertical and horizontal decentration of the 
thinnest point, the corneal thickness at 2.5, 3, 3.5, and 4 mm from the thinnest 
point, and the posterior keratometry at 4.5 mm from the thinnest point. The 
discriminant function was composed of three variables (the difference between 
flat and steep keratometry, the 3-mm irregularity, and the anterior elevation of 
the thinnest point) and reached an area under the receiver operator 
characteristic curve of 0.992, a sensitivity of 94%, and a specificity of 100%.
CONCLUSIONS: A discriminant function constructed from the intereye difference of 
three corneal indices may be accurate and useful for the topography-based 
detection of advanced keratoconus. In the future, incorporating such data in 
automated artificial intelligence software may improve the detection ability of 
earlier forms of keratoconus.

Copyright 2014, SLACK Incorporated.

DOI: 10.3928/1081597X-20140711-07
PMID: 25325895 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1377. Clin Child Psychol Psychiatry. 2016 Jan;21(1):81-94. doi: 
10.1177/1359104514554312. Epub 2014 Oct 17.

Uncovering a clinical portrait of sluggish cognitive tempo within an evaluation 
for attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder: A case study.

Becker SP(1), Ciesielski HA(2), Rood JE(3), Froehlich TE(4), Garner AA(2), Tamm 
L(2), Epstein JN(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Behavioral Medicine and Clinical Psychology, Department of 
Pediatrics, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center, USA 
stephen.becker@cchmc.org.
(2)Division of Behavioral Medicine and Clinical Psychology, Department of 
Pediatrics, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center, USA.
(3)Department of Psychology, Xavier University, USA.
(4)Division of Developmental and Behavioral Pediatrics, Department of 
Pediatrics, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center, USA.

Despite the burgeoning scientific literature examining the sluggish cognitive 
tempo (SCT) construct, very little is known about the clinical presentation of 
SCT. In clinical cases where SCT is suspected, it is critical to carefully 
assess not only for attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) but also for 
other comorbidities that may account for the SCT-related behaviors, especially 
internalizing symptoms and sleep problems. The current case study provides a 
clinical description of SCT in a 7-year-old girl, offering a real-life portrait 
of SCT while also providing an opportunity to qualitatively differentiate 
between SCT and ADHD, other psychopathologies (e.g. depression, anxiety), and 
potentially related domains of functioning (e.g. sleep, executive functioning 
[EF]). "Jessica" was described by herself, parents, and teacher as being much 
slower than her peers in completing schoolwork, despite standardized testing 
showing Jessica to have above average intelligence and academic achievement. 
Jessica's parents completed rating scales indicating high levels of SCT symptoms 
and daytime sleepiness, as well as mildly elevated EF deficits. More research is 
needed to determine how to best conceptualize, assess, and treat SCT, and 
Jessica's case underscores the importance of further work in this area.

© The Author(s) 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/1359104514554312
PMCID: PMC4494999
PMID: 25326531 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None.


1378. Sci Rep. 2014 Oct 20;4:6676. doi: 10.1038/srep06676.

Chip-integrated optical power limiter based on an all-passive micro-ring 
resonator.

Yan S(1), Dong J(1), Zheng A(1), Zhang X(1).

Author information:
(1)Wuhan National Laboratory for Optoelectronics, Huazhong University of Science 
and Technology, Wuhan, China, 430074.

Recent progress in silicon nanophotonics has dramatically advanced the possible 
realization of large-scale on-chip optical interconnects integration. Adopting 
photons as information carriers can break the performance bottleneck of 
electronic integrated circuit such as serious thermal losses and poor process 
rates. However, in integrated photonics circuits, few reported work can impose 
an upper limit of optical power therefore prevent the optical device from harm 
caused by high power. In this study, we experimentally demonstrate a feasible 
integrated scheme based on a single all-passive micro-ring resonator to realize 
the optical power limitation which has a similar function of current limiting 
circuit in electronics. Besides, we analyze the performance of optical power 
limiter at various signal bit rates. The results show that the proposed device 
can limit the signal power effectively at a bit rate up to 20 Gbit/s without 
deteriorating the signal. Meanwhile, this ultra-compact silicon device can be 
completely compatible with the electronic technology (typically complementary 
metal-oxide semiconductor technology), which may pave the way of very large 
scale integrated photonic circuits for all-optical information processors and 
artificial intelligence systems.

DOI: 10.1038/srep06676
PMCID: PMC4202204
PMID: 25327538


1379. Psychophysiology. 2015 Apr;52(4):544-54. doi: 10.1111/psyp.12367. Epub 2014 Oct 
17.

Arithmetic and algebraic problem solving and resource allocation: the distinct 
impact of fluid and numerical intelligence.

Dix A(1), van der Meer E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin, & Berlin School of 
Mind and Brain, Berlin, Germany.

This study investigates cognitive resource allocation dependent on fluid and 
numerical intelligence in arithmetic/algebraic tasks varying in difficulty. 
Sixty-six 11th grade students participated in a mathematical verification 
paradigm, while pupil dilation as a measure of resource allocation was 
collected. Students with high fluid intelligence solved the tasks faster and 
more accurately than those with average fluid intelligence, as did students with 
high compared to average numerical intelligence. However, fluid intelligence 
sped up response times only in students with average but not high numerical 
intelligence. Further, high fluid but not numerical intelligence led to greater 
task-related pupil dilation. We assume that fluid intelligence serves as a 
domain-general resource that helps to tackle problems for which domain-specific 
knowledge (numerical intelligence) is missing. The allocation of this resource 
can be measured by pupil dilation.

Copyright © 2014 Society for Psychophysiological Research.

DOI: 10.1111/psyp.12367
PMID: 25327870 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1380. PLoS One. 2014 Oct 16;9(10):e110517. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0110517. 
eCollection 2014.

Imitative learning as a connector of collective brains.

Fontanari JF(1).

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Física de São Carlos, Universidade de São Paulo, São Carlos, 
Brazil.

The notion that cooperation can aid a group of agents to solve problems more 
efficiently than if those agents worked in isolation is prevalent in computer 
science and business circles. Here we consider a primordial form of cooperation 
- imitative learning - that allows an effective exchange of information between 
agents, which are viewed as the processing units of a social intelligence system 
or collective brain. In particular, we use agent-based simulations to study the 
performance of a group of agents in solving a cryptarithmetic problem. An agent 
can either perform local random moves to explore the solution space of the 
problem or imitate a model agent - the best performing agent in its influence 
network. There is a trade-off between the number of agents N and the imitation 
probability p, and for the optimal balance between these parameters we observe a 
thirtyfold diminution in the computational cost to find the solution of the 
cryptarithmetic problem as compared with the independent search. If those 
parameters are chosen far from the optimal setting, however, then imitative 
learning can impair greatly the performance of the group.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0110517
PMCID: PMC4199724
PMID: 25329400 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The author has declared 
that no competing interests exist.


1381. Am J Med Genet B Neuropsychiatr Genet. 2014 Dec;165B(8):684-90. doi: 
10.1002/ajmg.b.32274. Epub 2014 Oct 20.

Neuropsychological profiles of patients with 2q37.3 deletion associated with 
developmental dyspraxia.

Ogura K(1), Takeshita K, Arakawa C, Shimojima K, Yamamoto T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rehabilitation for Brain Functions, Developmental Disability 
Study Section, Research Institute of National Rehabilitation Center for Persons 
with Disabilities, Tokorozawa, Japan; Department of Behavioral Neurology and 
Cognitive Neuroscience, Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine, Sendai, 
Japan.

Patients with 2q37 deletions manifest brachydactyly mental retardation syndrome 
(BDMR). Recent advances in human molecular research have revealed that 
alterations in the histone deacetylase 4 gene (HDAC4) are responsible for the 
clinical manifestations of BDMR. Here, we report two male patients with 2q37.3 
deletions. One of the patients showed a typical BDMR phenotype, and HDAC4 was 
included in the deletion region. HDAC4 was preserved in the other patient, and 
he showed a normal intelligence level with the delayed learning of complex motor 
skills. Detailed neuropsychological examinations revealed similar 
neuropsychological profiles in these two patients (visuo-spatial dyspraxia) that 
suggested developmental dyspraxia. These observations suggested that some other 
candidate genes for neuronal development exist in the telomeric region of HDAC4.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.b.32274
PMID: 25329715 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1382. PLoS One. 2014 Oct 20;9(10):e111222. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0111222. 
eCollection 2014.

A review of evaluations of electronic event-based biosurveillance systems.

Gajewski KN(1), Peterson AE(2), Chitale RA(2), Pavlin JA(3), Russell KL(3), 
Chretien JP(2).

Author information:
(1)Response Directorate, Federal Emergency Management Agency, Washington, DC, 
United States of America.
(2)Division of Integrated Biosurveillance, Armed Forces Health Surveillance 
Center, Silver Spring, MD, United States of America.
(3)Headquarters, Armed Forces Health Surveillance Center, Silver Spring, MD, 
United States of America.

Electronic event-based biosurveillance systems (EEBS's) that use near real-time 
information from the internet are an increasingly important source of 
epidemiologic intelligence. However, there has not been a systematic assessment 
of EEBS evaluations, which could identify key uncertainties about current 
systems and guide EEBS development to most effectively exploit web-based 
information for biosurveillance. To conduct this assessment, we searched PubMed 
and Google Scholar to identify peer-reviewed evaluations of EEBS's. We included 
EEBS's that use publicly available internet information sources, cover events 
that are relevant to human health, and have global scope. To assess the 
publications using a common framework, we constructed a list of 17 EEBS 
attributes from published guidelines for evaluating health surveillance systems. 
We identified 11 EEBS's and 20 evaluations of these EEBS's. The number of 
published evaluations per EEBS ranged from 1 (Gen-Db, GODsN, MiTAP) to 8 (GPHIN, 
HealthMap). The median number of evaluation variables assessed per EEBS was 8 
(range, 3-15). Ten published evaluations contained quantitative assessments of 
at least one key variable. No evaluations examined usefulness by identifying 
specific public health decisions, actions, or outcomes resulting from EEBS 
outputs. Future EEBS assessments should identify and discuss critical indicators 
of public health utility, especially the impact of EEBS's on public health 
response.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0111222
PMCID: PMC4203831
PMID: 25329886 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


1383. IEEE Trans Cybern. 2014 Nov;44(11):2109-21. doi: 10.1109/TCYB.2014.2301442.

Onboard centralized frame tree database for intelligent space operations of the 
Mars Science Laboratory Rover.

Kim WS, Diaz-Calderon A, Peters SF, Carsten JL, Leger C.

Planetary surface science operations performed by robotic space systems 
frequently require pointing cameras at various objects and moving a robotic arm 
end effector tool toward specific targets. Earlier NASA Mars Exploration Rovers 
did not have the ability to compute actual coordinates for given object 
coordinate frame names and had to be provided with explicit coordinates. Since 
it sometimes takes hours to more than a day to get final approval of certain 
calculated coordinates for command uplink via the Earth-based mission operations 
procedures, a highly desired enhancement for future rovers was to have the 
onboard automated capability to compute the coordinates for a given frame name. 
The Mars Science Laboratory (MSL) rover mission is the first to have a 
centralized coordinate transform database to maintain the knowledge of spatial 
relations. This onboard intelligence significantly simplifies communication and 
control between Earth-based human mission operators and the robotic rover on 
Mars by supporting higher level abstraction of commands using object and target 
names instead of coordinates. More specifically, the spatial relations of many 
object frames are represented hierarchically in a tree data structure, called 
the frame tree. Individual frame transforms are populated by their respective 
modules that have specific knowledge of the frames. Through this onboard 
centralized frame tree database, client modules can query transforms between any 
two frames and support spacecraft commands that use any frames maintained in the 
frame tree. Various operational examples in the MSL mission that have greatly 
benefitted from this onboard centralized frame tree database are presented.

DOI: 10.1109/TCYB.2014.2301442
PMID: 25330473


1384. Sci Rep. 2014 Oct 21;4:6696. doi: 10.1038/srep06696.

The common functional FKBP5 variant rs1360780 is associated with altered 
cognitive function in aged individuals.

Fujii T(1), Ota M(1), Hori H(1), Hattori K(1), Teraishi T(1), Matsuo J(1), 
Kinoshita Y(1), Ishida I(1), Nagashima A(1), Kunugi H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Mental Disorder Research, National Institute of Neuroscience, 
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, 4-1-1, Ogawahigashi, Kodaira, 
Tokyo, 187-8502, Japan.

The common single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) rs1360780 (C/T) of the FK506 
Binding Protein 5 (FKBP5) gene has been reported to be associated with an 
altered response of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis and the 
development of stress-related psychiatric disorders such as posttraumatic stress 
disorder (PTSD). In the present study, we examined whether this SNP is 
associated with cognitive function in a non-clinical population. The full 
versions of the Wechsler Memory Scale-Revised and Wechsler Adult Intelligence 
Scale-Revised were administered to 742 and 627 Japanese individuals, 
respectively, followed by genotyping of rs1360780 by the TaqMan 5'-exonuclease 
allelic discrimination assay. For both cognitive tests, we found significantly 
poorer attention/concentration (working memory) in aged (>50 years old) 
individuals carrying the T allele compared with their counterparts. This finding 
accords with an altered HPA axis and vulnerability to stress-related psychiatric 
disorders.

DOI: 10.1038/srep06696
PMCID: PMC4204028
PMID: 25331639 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1385. Soc Cogn Affect Neurosci. 2015 Feb;10(2):145-52. doi: 10.1093/scan/nsu126. Epub 
2014 Oct 20.

Autistic empathy toward autistic others.

Komeda H(1), Kosaka H(2), Saito DN(2), Mano Y(3), Jung M(3), Fujii T(2), Yanaka 
HT(3), Munesue T(3), Ishitobi M(2), Sato M(2), Okazawa H(2).

Author information:
(1)The Hakubi Center for Advanced Research, Kyoto University, 
Yoshida-Ushinomiya-cho, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 606-8501, Japan, Research Center for 
Child Mental Development, University of Fukui, Fukui 910-1193, Japan, Department 
of Neuropsychiatry, Faculty of Medical Sciences, University of Fukui, Fukui 
910-1193, Japan, Division of Developmental Higher Brain Functions, Department of 
Child Development, United Graduate School of Child Development, Osaka 
University, Kanazawa University, Hamamatsu University School of Medicine, Chiba 
University and University of Fukui, Fukui 910-1193, Japan, Biomedical Imaging 
Research Center, University of Fukui, Fukui 910-1193, Japan, Department of 
Psychology, Northwestern University, Evanston, IL 60208-2710, USA, Department of 
Psychiatry, National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry Hospital, 4-1-1, 
Ogawahigashi, Kodaira, Tokyo 187-8551, Japan, Faculty of Regional Sciences, 
Tottori University, Koyamacho-Minami, Tottori City 680-8551, Japan, Research 
Center for Child Mental Development, Kanazawa University, Kanazawa 920-8640, 
Japan, Department of Child and Adolescent Mental Health, National Institute of 
Mental Health, National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Kodaira, Tokyo 
187-8553, Japan, Division of Developmental Neuroscience, United Graduate School 
of Child Development, Osaka University, Kanazawa University, Hamamatsu 
University School of Medicine, Chiba University and University of Fukui, 2-2, 
Yamadaoka, Suita, Osaka 565-0871, Japan, and Department of Anatomy and 
Neuroscience, Graduate School of Medicine, Osaka University, 2-2, Yamadaoka, 
Suita, Osaka 565-0871, Japan komeda.hidetsugu.5w@kyoto-u.ac.jp.
(2)The Hakubi Center for Advanced Research, Kyoto University, 
Yoshida-Ushinomiya-cho, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 606-8501, Japan, Research Center for 
Child Mental Development, University of Fukui, Fukui 910-1193, Japan, Department 
of Neuropsychiatry, Faculty of Medical Sciences, University of Fukui, Fukui 
910-1193, Japan, Division of Developmental Higher Brain Functions, Department of 
Child Development, United Graduate School of Child Development, Osaka 
University, Kanazawa University, Hamamatsu University School of Medicine, Chiba 
University and University of Fukui, Fukui 910-1193, Japan, Biomedical Imaging 
Research Center, University of Fukui, Fukui 910-1193, Japan, Department of 
Psychology, Northwestern University, Evanston, IL 60208-2710, USA, Department of 
Psychiatry, National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry Hospital, 4-1-1, 
Ogawahigashi, Kodaira, Tokyo 187-8551, Japan, Faculty of Regional Sciences, 
Tottori University, Koyamacho-Minami, Tottori City 680-8551, Japan, Research 
Center for Child Mental Development, Kanazawa University, Kanazawa 920-8640, 
Japan, Department of Child and Adolescent Mental Health, National Institute of 
Mental Health, National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Kodaira, Tokyo 
187-8553, Japan, Division of Developmental Neuroscience, United Graduate School 
of Child Development, Osaka University, Kanazawa University, Hamamatsu 
University School of Medicine, Chiba University and University of Fukui, 2-2, 
Yamadaoka, Suita, Osaka 565-0871, Japan, and Department of Anatomy and 
Neuroscience, Graduate School of Medicine, Osaka University, 2-2, Yamadaoka, 
Suita, Osaka 565-0871, Japan The Hakubi Center for Advanced Research, Kyoto 
University, Yoshida-Ushinomiya-cho, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 606-8501, Japan, Research 
Center for Child Mental Development, University of Fukui, Fukui 910-1193, Japan, 
Department of Neuropsychiatry, Faculty of Medical Sciences, University of Fukui, 
Fukui 910-1193, Japan, Division of Developmental Higher Brain Functions, 
Department of Child
(3)The Hakubi Center for Advanced Research, Kyoto University, 
Yoshida-Ushinomiya-cho, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 606-8501, Japan, Research Center for 
Child Mental Development, University of Fukui, Fukui 910-1193, Japan, Department 
of Neuropsychiatry, Faculty of Medical Sciences, University of Fukui, Fukui 
910-1193, Japan, Division of Developmental Higher Brain Functions, Department of 
Child Development, United Graduate School of Child Development, Osaka 
University, Kanazawa University, Hamamatsu University School of Medicine, Chiba 
University and University of Fukui, Fukui 910-1193, Japan, Biomedical Imaging 
Research Center, University of Fukui, Fukui 910-1193, Japan, Department of 
Psychology, Northwestern University, Evanston, IL 60208-2710, USA, Department of 
Psychiatry, National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry Hospital, 4-1-1, 
Ogawahigashi, Kodaira, Tokyo 187-8551, Japan, Faculty of Regional Sciences, 
Tottori University, Koyamacho-Minami, Tottori City 680-8551, Japan, Research 
Center for Child Mental Development, Kanazawa University, Kanazawa 920-8640, 
Japan, Department of Child and Adolescent Mental Health, National Institute of 
Mental Health, National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Kodaira, Tokyo 
187-8553, Japan, Division of Developmental Neuroscience, United Graduate School 
of Child Development, Osaka University, Kanazawa University, Hamamatsu 
University School of Medicine, Chiba University and University of Fukui, 2-2, 
Yamadaoka, Suita, Osaka 565-0871, Japan, and Department of Anatomy and 
Neuroscience, Graduate School of Medicine, Osaka University, 2-2, Yamadaoka, 
Suita, Osaka 565-0871, Japan.

Individuals with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) are thought to lack 
self-awareness and to experience difficulty empathizing with others. Although 
these deficits have been demonstrated in previous studies, most of the target 
stimuli were constructed for typically developing (TD) individuals. We employed 
judgment tasks capable of indexing self-relevant processing in individuals with 
and without ASD. Fourteen Japanese men and 1 Japanese women with 
high-functioning ASD (17-41 years of age) and 13 Japanese men and 2 TD Japanese 
women (22-40 years of age), all of whom were matched for age and full and verbal 
intelligence quotient scores with the ASD participants, were enrolled in this 
study. The results demonstrated that the ventromedial prefrontal cortex was 
significantly activated in individuals with ASD in response to autistic 
characters and in TD individuals in response to non-autistic characters. 
Although the frontal-posterior network between the ventromedial prefrontal 
cortex and superior temporal gyrus participated in the processing of 
non-autistic characters in TD individuals, an alternative network was involved 
when individuals with ASD processed autistic characters. This suggests an 
atypical form of empathy in individuals with ASD toward others with ASD.

© The Author (2014). Published by Oxford University Press.

DOI: 10.1093/scan/nsu126
PMCID: PMC4321632
PMID: 25332405 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1386. Epileptic Disord. 2014 Dec;16(4):540-5. doi: 10.1684/epd.2014.0698.

Epileptic encephalopathy with continuous spikes and waves in the 
occipito-temporal region during slow-wave sleep in two patients with acquired 
Kanji dysgraphia.

Kuki I(1), Kawawaki H(1), Okazaki S(1), Ikeda H(1), Tomiwa K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Neurology, Child Medical Center, Osaka City General 
Hospital, Osaka, Japan.

Comment in
    Epileptic Disord. 2015 Sep;17(3):345-7.

We encountered two patients with acquired Kanji dysgraphia in whom continuous 
spikes and waves, dominant in the occipito-temporal region, were recorded during 
slow-wave sleep. Electrical status epileptics during sleep (ESES) was 
demonstrated on overnight electroencephalography, and dipoles clustered in and 
around the posterior inferior temporal cortex on magnetoencephalography. 
Functional neuroimaging suggested dysfunction in the left posterior temporal 
lobe, including the posterior inferior temporal cortex. The patients had normal 
intelligence with no problems in reading and writing Kana, as well as copying, 
reading aloud, and identifying Kanjis, but showed Kanji dysgraphia 
(morphological, phonemic, and semantic error) accompanied by impaired visual 
processing. ESES was resolved by sodium valproate, clonazepam, and acetazolamide 
in Patient 1, and by adrenocorticotropic hormone, sodium valproate, and 
clorazepate in Patient 2. The present cases had the unique cognitive dysfunction 
of Kanji dysgraphia, which is distinct from that of Landau-Kleffner syndrome and 
continuous spikes and waves during slow-wave sleep. However, the present cases 
also share common features with these two encephalopathies in terms of the 
clinical course, pathophysiology, neuroimaging, and response to steroids and 
antiepileptic drugs. In the context of the Japanese language, acquired Kanji 
dysgraphia may occur due to electrical dysfunction of left posterior inferior 
temporal cortex in patients with ESES.

DOI: 10.1684/epd.2014.0698
PMID: 25333864 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1387. Zhongguo Zhong Xi Yi Jie He Za Zhi. 2014 Sep;34(9):1074-7.

[Effect of acupoint massage dominant early comprehensive intervention on the 
prognosis of premature infants with brain injury].

[Article in Chinese]

Hu CW, Wei YS, Du YM, Li HQ, Liu ZH, Qiu YP, Yang HT.

OBJECTIVE: To explore the effect of acupoint massage dominant early 
comprehensive intervention on the prognosis of premature infants with brain 
injury.
METHODS: Totally 210 premature infants with brain injury were assigned to the 
intervention group (112 cases) and the control group (98 cases). All patients 
received routine therapy (medicinal + routine care instructions). Patients in 
the intervention group additionally received acupoint massage. Those with 
abnormal early motion received physical sports treatment. Those with upper limbs 
dysfunction or with fine movement disorders received occupational therapy. 
Premature infants' development quotient (DQ) was performed at corrected age of 6 
and 12 months by using neuropsychological development examination table for 0 - 
6 years old children. The incidence of cerebral palsy was statistically 
calculated.
RESULTS: At corrected age of 6 months, DQ of gross motor, fine motor, language 
three functional areas was higher in the intervention group than in the control 
group with significant difference (P < 0.05). At corrected age of 12 months, DQ 
of gross motor, fine motor, language, social and adaptive capacities was higher 
in the intervention group than in the control groupwith significant difference 
(P < 0.05). The incidence of cerebral palsy was 4.46% (5/112) in the 
intervention group and 12.24% (12/98) in the control group (P < 0.05).
CONCLUSION: Acupoint massage dominant early comprehensive intervention could 
obviously improve the intelligence development level and lower the incidence of 
cerebral palsy in premature infants with brain injury.

PMID: 25335331 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1388. Public Health Nutr. 2015 Jul;18(10):1898-905. doi: 10.1017/S136898001400216X. 
Epub 2014 Oct 22.

Practitioner consensus on the determinants of capacity building practice in 
high-income countries.

Swanepoel E(1), Fox A(2), Hughes R(3).

Author information:
(1)1School of Health and Sports Sciences,University of the Sunshine Coast,Locked 
Bag 4,Maroochydore DC,QLD 4558,Australia.
(2)2Department of Nutritional Sciences and the Dalla Lana School of Public 
Health,University of Toronto,Toronto,Canada.
(3)3Faculty of Health Sciences and Medicine,Bond University,Gold 
Coast,Queensland,Australia.

OBJECTIVE: To assess and develop consensus among experienced public health 
nutrition practitioners from high-income countries regarding conceptualisation 
of capacity building in practice, and to test the content validity of a 
previously published conceptual framework for capacity building in public health 
nutrition practice.
DESIGN: A Delphi study involving three iterations of email-delivered 
questionnaires testing a range of capacity determinants derived from the 
literature. Consensus was set at >50% of panellists ranking items as 'very 
important' on a five-point Likert scale across three survey rounds.
SETTING: Public health nutrition practice in Australia, the UK, Canada and the 
USA.
SUBJECTS: Public health nutrition practitioners and academics. Result A total of 
thirty expert panellists (68% of an initial panel of forty-four participants) 
completed all three rounds of Delphi questionnaires. Consensus identified 
determinants of capacity building in practice including partnerships, 
resourcing, community development, leadership, workforce development, 
intelligence and quality of project management.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings from the study suggest there is broad agreement among 
public health nutritionists from high-income countries about how they 
conceptualise capacity building in public health nutrition practice. This 
agreement suggests considerable content validity for a capacity building 
conceptual framework proposed by Baillie et al. (Public Health Nutr 12, 
1031-1038). More research is needed to apply the conceptual framework to the 
implementation and evaluation of strategies that enhance the practice of 
capacity building approaches by public health nutrition professionals.

DOI: 10.1017/S136898001400216X
PMCID: PMC10271690
PMID: 25335730 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1389. Open Biomed Eng J. 2014 Sep 29;8:68-74. doi: 10.2174/1874120701408010068. 
eCollection 2014.

Collaborative case-based reasoning for knowledge discovery of elders health 
assessment system.

Hu P(1), Gu DX(2), Zhu Y(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Management of Hefei University, HeFei, Anhui 230601, P.R.China.
(2)School of Management at Hefei University of Technology, Hefei, Anhui 230009, 
P.R.China.
(3)School of Management Engineering at Anhui University of Technology, Wuhu, 
Anhui 241000, P.R.China.

The existing Elders Health Assessment (EHA) system based on single-case-library 
reasoning has low intelligence level, poor coordination, and limited 
capabilities of assessment decision support. To effectively support knowledge 
reuse of EHA system, this paper proposes collaborative case reasoning and 
applies it to the whole knowledge reuse process of EHA system. It proposes a 
multi-case library reasoning application framework of EHA knowledge reuse 
system, and studies key techniques such as case representation, case retrieval 
algorithm, case optimization and correction, and reuse etc.. In the aspect of 
case representation, XML-based multi-case representation for case organization 
and storage is applied to facilitate case retrieval and management. In the 
aspect of retrieval method, Knowledge-Guided Approach with Nearest-Neighbor is 
proposed. Given the complexity of EHA, Gray Relational Analysis with weighted 
Euclidean Distance is used to measure the similarity so as to improve case 
retrieval accuracy.

DOI: 10.2174/1874120701408010068
PMCID: PMC4204335
PMID: 25337150


1390. Sao Paulo Med J. 2015 Jul-Aug;133(4):377-80. doi: 
10.1590/1516-3180.2013.7930003. Epub 2014 Oct 17.

Microcephaly-chorioretinopathy syndrome, autosomal recessive form. A case 
report.

Rosa RF(1), Enk F(2), Camargo K(2), Travi GM(3), Freitas A(3), Rosa RC(4), 
Graziadio C(1), Mattos VF(1), Zen PR(1).

Author information:
(1)Universidade Federal de Ciências da Saúde de Porto Alegre, Porto Alegre, Rio 
Grande do Sul, Brazil.
(2)Universidade Luterana do Brasil, Canoas, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil.
(3)Complexo Hospitalar Santa Casa de Porto Alegre, Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do 
Sul, Brazil.
(4)Grupo Hospitalar Conceição, Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil.

CONTEXT: The autosomal recessive form of microcephaly-chorioretinopathy syndrome 
is a rare genetic condition that is considered to be an important differential 
diagnosis with congenital toxoplasmosis.
CASE REPORT: Our patient was a seven-year-old white boy who was initially 
diagnosed with congenital toxoplasmosis. However, his serological tests for 
congenital infections, including toxoplasmosis, were negative. He was the first 
child of young, healthy and consanguineous parents (fourth-degree relatives). 
The parents had normal head circumferences and intelligence. The patient 
presented microcephaly and specific abnormalities of the retina, with multiple 
diffuse oval areas of pigmentation and patches of chorioretinal atrophy 
associated with diffuse pigmentation of the fundus. Ophthalmological evaluations 
on the parents were normal. A computed tomography scan of the child's head 
showed slight dilation of lateral ventricles and basal cisterns without evidence 
of calcifications. We did not find any lymphedema in his hands and feet. He had 
postnatal growth retardation, severe mental retardation and cerebral palsy.
CONCLUSIONS: The finding of chorioretinal lesions in a child with microcephaly 
should raise suspicions of the autosomal recessive form of 
microcephaly-chorioretinopathy syndrome, especially in cases with an atypical 
pattern of eye fundus and consanguinity. A specific diagnosis is essential for 
an appropriate clinical evaluation and for genetic counseling for the patients 
and their families.

DOI: 10.1590/1516-3180.2013.7930003
PMID: 25337662 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1391. Indian J Pediatr. 2014 Dec;81 Suppl 2:S165-8. doi: 10.1007/s12098-014-1590-5. 
Epub 2014 Oct 23.

Pre-intervention predictors for acquisition of adaptive behavior among children 
with intellectual disability.

Russell PS(1), John JK, Lakshmanan J, Russell S, Nair MK, Ganesh B.

Author information:
(1)Child and Adolescent Psychiatry Unit, Department of Psychiatry, Christian 
Medical College, Vellore, 632 002, Tamil Nadu, India, russell@cmcvellore.ac.in.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the predictive factors associated with the adaptive 
behavior acquisition among children with Intellectual Disability (ID) in two 
different training packages.
METHODS: Parents of 52 consecutive children completed a demographic data form. 
Pre-intervention quantification of ID, parental attitude and adaptive behavior 
assessments were done using the Binet-Kamat Test of Intelligence or Gessells 
Developmental Schedule, Parental Attitude Scale towards Management of 
Intellectual Disability and Vineland Social Maturity Scale respectively, by 
independent raters. Univariate and multiple logistic regression models were used 
to identify the predictive models for the training outcomes and further 
validated using re-sampling technique.
RESULTS: Predictive factors associated with the good outcome in the multimodal 
adaptive behavior training plus interactive group psycho-education group were: 
younger age of the parent trained, and more than two siblings. Among the 
multimodal adaptive behavior training plus didactic lectures group, education of 
parent trained predicted better adaptive behavior interventional outcome. There 
was no association between the place of residence, socio-economic status, 
profession of parent, level of disability or the parental attitude.
CONCLUSIONS: Different predictive factors are associated with potential 
short-term outcome of different adaptive behavior training for children with ID. 
Based on these pre-intervention predicators children and their parents can be 
given specific intervention packages.

DOI: 10.1007/s12098-014-1590-5
PMID: 25338491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1392. Sensors (Basel). 2014 Oct 22;14(10):19843-60. doi: 10.3390/s141019843.

Automatic association of chats and video tracks for activity learning and 
recognition in aerial video surveillance.

Hammoud RI(1), Sahin CS(2), Blasch EP(3), Rhodes BJ(4), Wang T(5).

Author information:
(1)BAE Systems, Burlington, MA 01803, USA. riad.hammoud@baesystems.com.
(2)BAE Systems, Burlington, MA 01803, USA. cem.sahin@baesystems.com.
(3)Air Force Research Lab, Rome, NY 13441, USA. erik.blasch.1@us.af.mil.
(4)BAE Systems, Burlington, MA 01803, USA. brad.rhodes@baesystems.com.
(5)BAE Systems, Burlington, MA 01803, USA. tao.wang@baesystems.com.

We describe two advanced video analysis techniques, including video-indexed by 
voice annotations (VIVA) and multi-media indexing and explorer (MINER). VIVA 
utilizes analyst call-outs (ACOs) in the form of chat messages (voice-to-text) 
to associate labels with video target tracks, to designate spatial-temporal 
activity boundaries and to augment video tracking in challenging scenarios. 
Challenging scenarios include low-resolution sensors, moving targets and target 
trajectories obscured by natural and man-made clutter. MINER includes: (1) a 
fusion of graphical track and text data using probabilistic methods; (2) an 
activity pattern learning framework to support querying an index of activities 
of interest (AOIs) and targets of interest (TOIs) by movement type and 
geolocation; and (3) a user interface to support streaming multi-intelligence 
data processing. We also present an activity pattern learning framework that 
uses the multi-source associated data as training to index a large archive of 
full-motion videos (FMV). VIVA and MINER examples are demonstrated for wide 
aerial/overhead imagery over common data sets affording an improvement in 
tracking from video data alone, leading to 84% detection with modest 
misdetection/false alarm results due to the complexity of the scenario. The 
novel use of ACOs and chat Sensors 2014, 14 19844 messages in video tracking 
paves the way for user interaction, correction and preparation of situation 
awareness reports.

DOI: 10.3390/s141019843
PMCID: PMC4239870
PMID: 25340453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1393. Psicothema. 2014;26(4):524-30. doi: 10.7334/psicothema2014.166.

Brief Emotional Intelligence Inventory for Senior Citizens (EQ-i-M20).

Pérez Fuentes Mdel C(1), Gázquez Linares JJ, Mercader Rubio I, Molero Jurado 
Mdel M.

Author information:
(1)Universidad de Almería.

BACKGROUND: In recent years, diverse studies have been carried out revealing 
many benefits of high levels of Emotional Intelligence (EI) for the older 
population, affecting their physical and mental health, cognitive capacity, 
social functioning, and, ultimately, their well-being and quality of life. 
However, in Spain, there is no reliable and valid instrument for the assessment 
of EI. Hence, the goal of this work is the adaptation of the Emotional 
Intelligence Inventory: Young Version to the population of older university 
students.
METHOD: To achieve this goal, two studies were carried out (the first one of 
calibration, and the second of validation) with students from two Seniors 
Citizens' Universities (Almer&iacute;a and Oviedo).
RESULTS: The results indicate that the instrument is reliable and structurally 
valid, although some doubts emerged about the appropriateness of one of the five 
factors (stress management) within this structure.
CONCLUSIONS: The use of the EQ-i-M20 is recommended, although new studies are 
needed to shed light on the role of the factor stress management within the EI 
construct.

DOI: 10.7334/psicothema2014.166
PMID: 25340901 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1394. Psicothema. 2014;26(4):545-53. doi: 10.7334/psicothema2014.182.

Enterprising personality profile in youth: components and assessment.

Muñiz J(1), Suárez-Álvarez J, Pedrosa I, Fonseca-Pedrero E, García-Cueto E.

Author information:
(1)Universidad de Oviedo.

BACKGROUND: In the study of enterprising personality, there are two main 
approaches, the utilization of general personality traits, such as Big Five, and 
the use of more specific traits. The aim of the present work is to develop and 
validate a new measurement instrument that will permit a rigorous assessment of 
the basic traits of enterprising personality in young people.
METHOD: A sample of 2,693 students (51% males) from different regions in 
northern Spain was used. Mean age was 16.52 years (SD = 1.38), with an age range 
of 16 to 23. Eight principal dimensions of enterprising personality were 
identified, and a new battery of tests was developed for their assessment.
RESULTS: The reliability coefficients of the battery scales were over .80. 
Common variance among the eight specific personality dimensions and the Big Five 
factors was 24%, and with three emotional intelligence dimensions, it was 16%. 
The enterprising personality traits show a very low correlation with 
socio-economic status (r = .126), and a moderate correlation with estimations of 
entrepreneurial spirit by teachers (r = .385).
CONCLUSIONS: Eight specific dimensions of enterprising personality in youth have 
been identified, and a new battery for their assessment, with adequate 
psychometric properties, was developed.

DOI: 10.7334/psicothema2014.182
PMID: 25340904 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1395. Int J Med Educ. 2014 May 25;5:95-102. doi: 10.5116/ijme.536e.26b2.

Student perceptions of a patient- centered medical training curriculum.

Gallentine A(1), Salinas-Miranda AA(1), Bradley-Klug K(2), Shaffer-Hudkins E(3), 
Hinojosa S(2), Monroe A(3).

Author information:
(1)College of Public Health, University of South Florida, USA.
(2)College of Education, University of South Florida, USA.
(3)Morsani College of Medicine, University of South Florida, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate a patient-centered medical training curriculum, the 
SELECT program, through perceptions of the inaugural student cohort.
METHODS: Data were collected from two focus groups conducted in the university 
setting, comprised of fifteen first-year medical students who participated in 
the SELECT program during its inaugural year. A questioning protocol was used to 
guide the focus group discussion, which was transcribed and hand-coded through 
thematic analyses.
RESULTS: Various themes related to patient-centered care were identified. 
Students noted changes in their attitudes towards interacting with patients in 
an empowering and educative manner as a result of communication and motivational 
interviewing exercises. Additionally, they recognized certain external, 
structural barriers as well as internal conflict between pragmatism and 
emotional intelligence that could potentially hinder patient-centered care. The 
impact of family dynamics and social support on quality of life and health 
outcomes was acknowledged. Students also emphasized the value of collaborating 
with multiple health professionals. Lastly, students provided suggestions for 
program improvement, namely additional simulations, more education regarding 
other healthcare professionals' roles, more standardized experiences, and 
application of principles to acute and primary care.
CONCLUSIONS: Upon completion of the first year of the SELECT program, students 
gained an appreciation for patient-centered care and various factors and skills 
that facilitate such care. Additionally, they experienced a dissonance between 
didactic concepts from the curriculum and observed medical practices. This study 
highlights the educational benefits of a patient-centered medical curriculum and 
provides suggestions for future improvement.

DOI: 10.5116/ijme.536e.26b2
PMCID: PMC4207181
PMID: 25341218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1396. J Child Neurol. 2015 Jul;30(8):976-82. doi: 10.1177/0883073814549581. Epub 2014 
Oct 23.

Effect of Increased Immunosuppression on Developmental Outcome of Opsoclonus 
Myoclonus Syndrome (OMS).

Mitchell WG(1), Wooten AA(2), O'Neil SH(3), Rodriguez JG(2), Cruz RE(2), Wittern 
R(3).

Author information:
(1)Neurology Division, Children's Hospital Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, USA 
Department of Neurology, Keck School of Medicine of University of Southern 
California, Los Angeles, CA, USA wmitchell@chla.usc.edu.
(2)Neurology Division, Children's Hospital Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(3)Clinical Translational Science Institute, Children's Hospital Los Angeles, 
Los Angeles, CA, USA.

Opsoclonus myoclonus syndrome (OMS) produces long-term cognitive, behavioral, 
and motor deficits. Objective was to see if more aggressive treatment improved 
outcome. Assessment included opsoclonus myoclonus syndrome rating, 
developmental/cognitive and motor assessment, and adaptive behavior. Fourteen 
subjects completed testing. Nine had neuroblastoma. Onset was at 10 to 35 
months; onset to diagnosis: 2 days to 14 months, and onset to first treatment: 5 
days to 15 months. Initial treatment was corticotropin (12), oral steroids (3), 
plus intravenous immunoglobulin in all. Ten received rituximab, 5 
cyclophosphamide. Age at testing ranged from 2.5 to 10.3 years. Adaptive 
Behavior Score (11 subjects), mean 93.5; estimated Intelligence 
Quotient/Developmental Quotient mean 93.5; Motor: mean 92.8. Residual opsoclonus 
myoclonus syndrome symptoms at the time of the evaluation were generally minor; 
opsoclonus myoclonus syndrome scores ranged from 0 to 6. Comparison to 
previously reported opsoclonus myoclonus syndrome subjects showed improved 
outcomes: Adaptive behavior, cognitive and motor scores were significantly 
higher (P < .001) in new subjects. Outcomes have improved with more aggressive 
immunosuppression, with most opsoclonus myoclonus syndrome survivors now 
functioning at or near normal.

© The Author(s) 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/0883073814549581
PMID: 25342308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1397. J Intell. 2014 Apr 4;2(2):29-32. doi: 10.3390/jintelligence2020029.

Assessing and Revising the Plan for Intelligence Testing.

Vergauwe E(1), Cowan N(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychological Sciences, University of Missouri, McAlester Hall, 
Columbia, MO 65211 USA.

This brief commentary suggests that the usefulness of the concept intelligence 
might depend on how one defines intelligence and on whether one is using it for 
scientific versus practical purposes. Furthermore, it is suggested that the 
concept of working memory must not be overlooked when considering individual 
differences in intelligence.

DOI: 10.3390/jintelligence2020029
PMCID: PMC4204625
PMID: 25343045


1398. Pediatr Endocrinol Rev. 2014 Sep;12 Suppl 1:107-13.

Mucopolysaccharidosis type II, Hunter's syndrome.

Tylki-Szymańska A.

Hunter syndrome is caused by deficiency of the lysososmal enzyme 
iduronate-2-sulphatase that cleaves O-linked sulphate moieties from dermatan 
sulphate and heparan sulphate and leads to accumulation of GAGs. The disease is 
a X-linked condition affecting males and rarely females, clinically divided into 
severe (2/3) and attenuated types. Children with severe form, diagnosed at 12-36 
months, have coarse facial feature, short stature, joint stiffness, short neck, 
broad chest, large head circumference, watery diarrhea, skeletal changes, 
progressive and profound mental retardation, retinal degeneration' hearing loss, 
cardiomyopathy, valvular involvement, with progressive thickening and stiffening 
of the valve leaflets leading to mitral and aortic regurgitation and stenosis . 
Recurrent and prolonged rhinitis with persistent nasal discharge are the first 
symptoms of airway disease that manifests itself as noisy breathing and later 
sleep apnea. Some patients develop ivory-colored skin lesions on the upper back 
and sides of the upper arms, pathogenomic of Hunter syndrome. The scalp hair 
becomes coarse, straight and bristly. Inguinal and umbilical hernias occur 
caused by the disturbed structure of connective tissue and increased liver and 
spleen volume. Patients with attenuated form have normal intelligence and a 
milder phenotype. Physical features diagnosed later are similar but less 
pronounced but progress to severe disease. Sceening is by quantitative 
assessment of urinary GAGs excretion. Qualitative assessment of GAG by 
electrophoresis can distinguish the type of mucopolysaccharidosis. Definitive 
diagnosis is based on enzyme activity assay in leukocytes, fibroblasts or 
plasma. Molecular testing is recommended mainly for genetic counseling and 
carrier detection. Limited experience of Haematopoietic stem cell therapy in MPS 
II showed progressive neurodegeneration. Recombinant 125 Idursulfase, is 
indicated for long-term treatment. The response appears to depend on the 
severity of the disease and the age treatment is started, Improvements in a 
composite endpoint comprising: change in walking distance percentage of 
predicted forced vital capacity (%FVC) ,decrease in liver and spleen volume and 
urinary GAG levels were encouraging. Current research is focused on 
pharmacological chaperones, gene therapy and substrate reduction therapy and 
therapies that, unlike Idursulfase, do cross the blood-brain barrier.

PMID: 25345092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1399. Bull Anesth Hist. 2014 Oct;32(1):8-15.

High times, fair maidens, and sweet air: romantic interludes in the life of Dr. 
Crawford Long.

Lyke A.

How does one's knowledge of pain affect the physical "being" of pain? Following 
German idealist philosophy, unconsciousness to such knowledge would seemingly 
abdicate the very nature of pain. "Nothing exists but thoughts!--the universe is 
composed of impressions, ideas, pleasures, and pains!" Humphry Davy exclaimed 
upon leaping out of the laughing gas chamber where he had breathed some 100 
quarts of nitrous oxide. The discovery of nitrous oxide gas as an agent of 
transubstantiation led to the discovery of the medical science of anesthesia by 
a genius, but backcountry physician, Dr. Crawford Long in 1841. This paper 
presupposes that the Romantically introspective effects of diethyl ether 
inhalation led Dr. Long to yearn melancholically for his lover and underestimate 
his momentous discovery, as the physical abdication of pain could not quench the 
doctor's subliminal anguish. Within is an account of the arcane nature of one of 
medicine and history's most significant discoveries, one wrought out of 
intelligence and the wondrous curiosity of the Romantic period.

PMID: 25345268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1400. Front Hum Neurosci. 2014 Oct 10;8:769. doi: 10.3389/fnhum.2014.00769. 
eCollection 2014.

Face recognition: a model specific ability.

Wilmer JB(1), Germine LT(2), Nakayama K(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Wellesley College Wellesley, MA, USA.
(2)Psychiatric & Neurodevelopmental Genetics Unit, Massachusetts General 
Hospital Boston, MA, USA.
(3)Department of Psychology, Harvard University Cambridge, MA, USA.

In our everyday lives, we view it as a matter of course that different people 
are good at different things. It can be surprising, in this context, to learn 
that most of what is known about cognitive ability variation across individuals 
concerns the broadest of all cognitive abilities; an ability referred to as 
general intelligence, general mental ability, or just g. In contrast, our 
knowledge of specific abilities, those that correlate little with g, is severely 
constrained. Here, we draw upon our experience investigating an exceptionally 
specific ability, face recognition, to make the case that many specific 
abilities could easily have been missed. In making this case, we derive key 
insights from earlier false starts in the measurement of face recognition's 
variation across individuals, and we highlight the convergence of factors that 
enabled the recent discovery that this variation is specific. We propose that 
the case of face recognition ability illustrates a set of tools and perspectives 
that could accelerate fruitful work on specific cognitive abilities. By 
revealing relatively independent dimensions of human ability, such work would 
enhance our capacity to understand the uniqueness of individual minds.

DOI: 10.3389/fnhum.2014.00769
PMCID: PMC4193262
PMID: 25346673


1401. Front Aging Neurosci. 2014 Oct 9;6:275. doi: 10.3389/fnagi.2014.00275. 
eCollection 2014.

A double-blind randomized clinical trial on the efficacy of cortical direct 
current stimulation for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease.

Khedr EM(1), Gamal NF(1), El-Fetoh NA(1), Khalifa H(1), Ahmed EM(1), Ali AM(1), 
Noaman M(1), El-Baki AA(1), Karim AA(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Assiut University Hospital , Assiut , Egypt.
(2)Department of Prevention and Health Psychology, University of Riedlingen , 
Riedlingen , Germany ; Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University 
Clinic Tübingen , Tübingen , Germany.

BACKGROUND: The purpose of this study was to investigate the long-term efficacy 
of transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) in the neurorehabilitation of 
Alzheimer's disease (AD).
METHODS: Thirty-four AD patients were randomly assigned to three groups: anodal, 
cathodal, and sham tDCS. Stimulation was applied over the left dorsolateral 
prefrontal cortex for 25 min at 2 mA, daily for 10 days. Each patient was 
submitted to the following psychometric assessments: mini-mental state 
examination (MMSE) and Wechsler adult intelligence scale-third edition at base 
line, at the end of the 10th sessions and then at 1 and 2 months after the end 
of the sessions. Motor cortical excitability and the P300 event-related 
potential were assessed at baseline and after the last tDCS session.
RESULTS: Significant treatment group × time interactions were observed for the 
MMSE and performance IQ of the WAIS. Post hoc comparisons showed that both 
anodal and cathodal tDCS (ctDCS) improved MMSE in contrast to sham tDCS. 
Whereas, this was only true for ctDCS in the performance IQ. Remarkably, tDCS 
also reduced the P300 latency, but had no effect on motor cortex excitability.
CONCLUSION: Our findings reveal that repeated sessions of tDCS could not only 
improve cognitive function but also reduce the P300 latency, which is known to 
be pathologically increased in AD.

DOI: 10.3389/fnagi.2014.00275
PMCID: PMC4191219
PMID: 25346688


1402. PLoS One. 2014 Oct 27;9(10):e110391. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0110391. 
eCollection 2014.

Sex differences in general knowledge: meta-analysis and new data on the 
contribution of school-related moderators among high-school students.

Tran US(1), Hofer AA(1), Voracek M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Basic Psychological Research and Research Methods, School of 
Psychology, University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria.

Research from various countries consistently reported an advantage of boys over 
girls in general knowledge and was also suggestive of some overall trends 
regarding specific domains of general knowledge that were speculated to stem 
from biologically differentiated interests. However, results were heterogeneous 
and, as of yet, had not been evaluated meta-analytically. Moreover, previous 
research drew on overly homogeneous high-school or undergraduate samples whose 
representativeness appears problematic; mostly, likely moderators, such as 
school type, student age or parental education, were also not directly 
investigated or controlled for. We provide a meta-analytical aggregation of 
available results regarding sex differences in general knowledge and present new 
data, investigating the psychometric properties of the General Knowledge Test 
(GKT), on which previous research primarily relied, and explored sex differences 
in a large and heterogeneous Austrian high-school student sample (N = 1088). The 
aggregated sex effect in general knowledge was of medium size in previous 
research, but differences in specific domains were heterogeneous across 
countries and only modest at best. Large sex differences in our data could be 
explained to a large part by school-related moderators (school type, school, 
student age, parental education) and selection processes. Boys had a remaining 
advantage over girls that was only small in size and that was consistent with 
the magnitude of sex differences in general intelligence. Analysis of the GKT 
yielded no evidence of biologically differentiated interests, but of a specific 
interest in the humanities among girls. In conclusion, previous research likely 
overestimated sex differences in general knowledge.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0110391
PMCID: PMC4210204
PMID: 25347190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors hereby confirm 
that coauthor Martin Voracek is a PLOS ONE Editorial Board member. This does not 
alter the authors' adherence to PLOS ONE editorial policies and criteria.


1403. Br J Gen Pract. 2014 Nov;64(628):e728-34. doi: 10.3399/bjgp14X682321.

The 'added value' GPs bring to commissioning: a qualitative study in primary 
care.

Perkins N(1), Coleman A(1), Wright M(2), Gadsby E(3), McDermott I(1), Petsoulas 
C(4), Checkland K(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Primary Care, University of Manchester, Manchester, UK.
(2)Centre for Health Economics Research and Evaluation, University of 
Technology, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(3)Centre for Health Services Studies, University of Kent, Canterbury, Kent, UK.
(4)Department of Health Services Research and Policy, London School of Hygiene 
and Tropical Medicine, London, UK.

BACKGROUND: The 2012 Health and Social Care Act in England replaced primary care 
trusts with clinical commissioning groups (CCGs) as the main purchasing 
organisations. These new organisations are GP-led, and it was claimed that this 
increased clinical input would significantly improve commissioning practice.
AIM: To explore some of the key assumptions underpinning CCGs, and to examine 
the claim that GPs bring 'added value' to commissioning.
DESIGN AND SETTING: In-depth interviews with clinicians and managers across 
seven CCGs in England between April and September 2013.
METHOD: A total of 40 clinicians and managers were interviewed. Interviews 
focused on the perceived 'added value' that GPs bring to commissioning.
RESULTS: Claims to GP 'added value' centred on their intimate knowledge of their 
patients. It was argued that this detailed and concrete knowledge improves 
service design and that a close working relationship between GPs and managers 
strengthens the ability of managers to negotiate. However, responders also 
expressed concerns about the large workload that they face and about the 
difficulty in engaging with the wider body of GPs.
CONCLUSION: GPs have been involved in commissioning in many ways since 
fundholding in the 1990s, and claims such as these are not new. The key question 
is whether these new organisations better support and enable the effective use 
of this knowledge. Furthermore, emphasis on experiential knowledge brings with 
it concerns about representativeness and the extent to which other voices are 
heard. Finally, the implicit privileging of GPs' personal knowledge ahead of 
systematic public health intelligence also requires exploration.

© British Journal of General Practice 2014.

DOI: 10.3399/bjgp14X682321
PMCID: PMC4220231
PMID: 25348997 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1404. J Learn Disabil. 2016 May-Jun;49(3):320-35. doi: 10.1177/0022219414555416. Epub 
2014 Oct 27.

WISC-IV Intellectual Profiles in Italian Children With Specific Learning 
Disorder and Related Impairments in Reading, Written Expression, and 
Mathematics.

Poletti M(1).

Author information:
(1)AUSL of Reggio Emilia, Italy michele.poletti2@ausl.re.it 
michelepoletti79@gmail.com.

The fifth edition of theDiagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental 
Disordersgrouped specific learning disabilities in the single diagnostic 
category of specific learning disorder (SLD), with specifiers for impairments in 
reading, written expression, and mathematics. This study aimed at investigating 
the intellectual profile, assessed with the fourth edition of theWechsler 
Intelligence Scale for Children(WISC-IV), of 172 children with a diagnosis of 
SLD, compared to 74 clinical referral controls. WISC-IV intellectual functioning 
in children with SLD was characterized by a significant discrepancy between 
general ability and cognitive proficiency (General Ability Index [GAI] > 
Cognitive Proficiency Index [CPI]), and worse performances on the Similarities, 
Digit Span, Letter-Number Sequencing, and Coding subtests, supporting models of 
multiple cognitive deficits at the basis of neurodevelopmental disorders as SLD. 
GAI was the best and more conservative measure provided by the WISC-IV to 
identify intellectual functioning in children with SLD, and the intellectual 
discrepancy between GAI and CPI could be considered a "cognitive sign" for the 
presence of SLD in a single diagnostic category. Cognitive deficits differed in 
subtypes of impairment (reading, written expression, and mathematics), 
supporting their distinction for empirical, educational, and rehabilitative 
purposes. These findings need further replication in larger samples and in 
comparison to typically developing children.

© Hammill Institute on Disabilities 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/0022219414555416
PMID: 25349093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1405. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2014 Nov 18;111(46):16343-8. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.1407524111. Epub 2014 Oct 27.

Wild chimpanzees plan their breakfast time, type, and location.

Janmaat KR(1), Polansky L(2), Ban SD(3), Boesch C(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Primatology, Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary 
Anthropology, 04103 Leipzig, Germany; karline_janmaat@eva.mpg.de.
(2)Department of Primatology, Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary 
Anthropology, 04103 Leipzig, Germany; Department of Anthropology, University of 
California, Davis, CA 95616; and.
(3)Department of Primatology, Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary 
Anthropology, 04103 Leipzig, Germany; Department of Biosciences, Université 
Félix Houphouët Boigny, Abidjan 22, Ivory Coast.
(4)Department of Primatology, Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary 
Anthropology, 04103 Leipzig, Germany;

Not all tropical fruits are equally desired by rainforest foragers and some 
fruit trees get depleted more quickly and carry fruit for shorter periods than 
others. We investigated whether a ripe-fruit specialist, the chimpanzee (Pan 
troglodytes verus), arrived earlier at breakfast sites with very ephemeral and 
highly sought-after fruit, like figs, than sites with less ephemeral fruit that 
can be more predictably obtained throughout the entire day. We recorded when and 
where five adult female chimpanzees spent the night and acquired food for a 
total of 275 full days during three fruit-scarce periods in a West African 
tropical rainforest. We found that chimpanzees left their sleeping nests earlier 
(often before sunrise when the forest is still dark) when breakfasting on very 
ephemeral fruits, especially when they were farther away. Moreover, the females 
positioned their sleeping nests more in the direction of the next day's 
breakfast sites with ephemeral fruit compared with breakfast sites with other 
fruit. By analyzing departure times and nest positioning as a function of fruit 
type and location, while controlling for more parsimonious explanations, such as 
temperature, we found evidence that wild chimpanzees flexibly plan their 
breakfast time, type, and location after weighing multiple disparate pieces of 
information. Our study reveals a cognitive mechanism by which large-brained 
primates can buffer the effects of seasonal declines in food availability and 
increased interspecific competition to facilitate first access to nutritious 
food. We discuss the implications for theories on hominoid brain-size evolution.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1407524111
PMCID: PMC4246305
PMID: 25349399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


1406. Pain Manag. 2014;4(5):351-62. doi: 10.2217/pmt.14.35.

Narrative medicine to highlight values of Italian pain therapists in a changing 
healthcare system.

Marini MG(1), Reale L, Cappuccio A, Spizzichino M, Zini P, Amato F, Mameli S, 
Raffaeli W.

Author information:
(1)ISTUD Foundation, Milan, Italy.

Until 2010 pain management in Italy was only partially covered and no structural 
and qualitative mapping had ever been realized. The VEDUTA project was designed 
to provide a tool to unite pain therapists in national cooperation. Quantitative 
questionnaires and narrative plots were sent to 350 Italian specialists; 184 
therapists completed the first section and 87 also wrote their stories. 
Narratives were analyzed through transactional analysis and emotional 
intelligence. Overall, results show that a patient-centered approach is common 
in daily practice, but that bureaucracy is endangering quality of care. This 
cultural analysis, through both the application of quantitative assessment and 
narrative plots, provides a useful tool to improve those aspects of the system 
detrimental to the appropriate management of pain in Italy.

DOI: 10.2217/pmt.14.35
PMID: 25350075 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1407. Psychol Rep. 2014 Oct;115(2):485-98. doi: 10.2466/03.04.PR0.115c25z8. Epub 2014 
Oct 28.

Problems of "draw-a-person: a quantitative scoring system" (DAP:QSS) as a 
measure of intelligence.

Troncone A(1).

Author information:
(1)1 Department of Psychology, Second University of Naples, Italy.

There has been some ongoing debate on whether the DAP:QSS can be used to measure 
intelligence. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the concurrent validity 
of the DAP:QSS with Raven's Coloured Progressive Matrices (RCPM) and the 
DAP:QSS's accuracy as a predictor of RCPM scores and academic achievement. 184 
children from two elementary schools in a region of Southern Italy was evaluated 
by the DAP:QSS, the RCPM, the Goodenough-Harris Drawing Test (GH), and school 
marks. Drawings' scores, school marks, and RCPM scores were subjected to a 
Pearson's correlation. Stepwise regression analyses were carried out to identify 
significant predictors of RCPM scores and school marks. After controlling for 
socioeconomic status, the DAP:QSS showed a significant correlation with the RCPM 
and GH tests and academic achievement. However, the modest correlations with the 
RCPM, the small amount of variance in RCPM scores accounted for by the DAP:QSS 
(R(2) = .24), and the errors of the DAP:QSS in correctly classifying 
participants with borderline/deficient intellectual functioning advise against 
the use of the DAP:QSS as a measure of intelligence.

DOI: 10.2466/03.04.PR0.115c25z8
PMID: 25350210 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1408. PLoS One. 2014 Oct 28;9(10):e110050. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0110050. 
eCollection 2014.

Physical activity during pregnancy and offspring neurodevelopment and IQ in the 
first 4 years of life.

Domingues MR(1), Matijasevich A(2), Barros AJ(3), Santos IS(3), Horta BL(3), 
Hallal PC(4).

Author information:
(1)Sports Department, Federal University of Pelotas, Pelotas, Rio Grande do Sul, 
Brazil.
(2)Postgraduate Programme in Epidemiology, Federal University of Pelotas, 
Pelotas, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil; Department of Preventive Medicine, School of 
Medicine, University of Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil.
(3)Postgraduate Programme in Epidemiology, Federal University of Pelotas, 
Pelotas, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil.
(4)Sports Department, Federal University of Pelotas, Pelotas, Rio Grande do Sul, 
Brazil; Postgraduate Programme in Epidemiology, Federal University of Pelotas, 
Pelotas, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil.

BACKGROUND: Maternal physical activity during pregnancy could alter offspring's 
IQ and neurodevelopment in childhood.
METHODS: Children belonging to a birth cohort were followed at 3, 12, 24 and 48 
months of age. Physical activity during pregnancy was assessed retrospectively 
at birth. Neurodevelopment was evaluated by Battelle's Development Inventory 
(12, 24 and 48 months) and IQ by the Weschler's Intelligence Scale (48 months). 
Neurodevelopment was based on Battelles' (90th percentile) and also analyzed as 
a continuous outcome. IQ was analyzed as a continuous outcome. Potential 
confounders were: family income, mother's age, schooling, skin color, number of 
previous births and smoking; and newborns': preterm birth, sex and low birth 
weight.
RESULTS: From birth to 48 months, sample size decreased from 4231 to 3792. Crude 
analysis showed that IQ at 48 months was slightly higher (5 points) among 
children from active women. The Battelle's score at 12 and 24 months was higher 
among offspring from active mothers. After controlling for confounders, physical 
activity during pregnancy was positively associated to the Battelle's Inventory 
at 12 months IQ, however, at 48 months no association was observed.
CONCLUSION: Physical activity during pregnancy does not seem to impair 
children's neurodevelopment and children from active mothers presented better 
performance at 12 months.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0110050
PMCID: PMC4211660
PMID: 25350666 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


1409. Int J Eat Disord. 2015 Apr;48(3):290-7. doi: 10.1002/eat.22362. Epub 2014 Oct 
29.

Development and validation of a scale to measure caregiver skills in eating 
disorders.

Hibbs R(1), Rhind C, Salerno L, Lo Coco G, Goddard E, Schmidt U, Micali N, 
Gowers S, Beecham J, Macdonald P, Todd G, Campbell I, Treasure J.

Author information:
(1)Section of Eating Disorders, Department of Psychological Medicine, King's 
College London, Institute of Psychiatry, London, United Kingdom.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to develop and validate a new questionnaire 
designed to measure caregiver skills that, in line with the interpersonal 
component of the cognitive interpersonal maintenance model (Schmidt and 
Treasure, J Br J Clin Psychol, 45, 343-366, 2006), may be helpful in the support 
of people with anorexia nervosa (AN). A further aim is to assess whether this 
scale is sensitive to change following skills-based caregiver interventions.
METHOD: The Caregiver Skills (CASK) scale was developed by a group of clinicians 
and caregivers. Preliminary versions of the scale devised for both caregivers 
and parents were given at baseline and at follow-up after two studies of 
caregiver interventions (a clinical trial of the effectiveness of guided 
self-help and training workshops). Exploratory and confirmatory factor analyses 
(CFA) were used to test the factorial structure of the CASK scale. Cronbach's 
alpha was used to measure internal consistency of the CASK scales.
RESULTS: Exploratory Factor Analysis suggested a six component solution (Bigger 
Picture, Self-Care, Biting-Your-Tongue, Insight and Acceptance, Emotional 
Intelligence and Frustration Tolerance) and this model was confirmed with CFA. 
Significant clinically relevant correlations were found between the CASK scales 
and other standardised measures of caregivers' attitudes and behaviours. 
Furthermore, greater improvements on abilities measured by the CASK scale were 
found in caregivers who received skills-training than caregivers assigned to a 
'treatment as usual' condition.
DISCUSSION: The CASK scale is a measure of the fidelity of interventions based 
on the cognitive interpersonal maintenance model and is sensitive to the 
intensity of the intervention provided.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/eat.22362
PMID: 25351932 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1410. JRSM Open. 2014 Aug 11;5(9):2054270414533327. doi: 10.1177/2054270414533327. 
eCollection 2014 Sep.

A survey of birth order status of students studying for medical degree at the 
University of Sheffield.

Clayton S(1), Apperley E(1), Hannon F(1), Karia A(1), Baxter V(1), Julious 
SA(1).

Author information:
(1)Medical Statistics Group, ScHARR, University of Sheffield, Sheffield S1 4DA, 
UK.

OBJECTIVE: It is hypothesised that firstborn children and only children are more 
intelligent with higher intelligence scores having been observed in firstborn or 
only children. Evidence of the increased intelligence has been suggested by the 
fact that 21/23 (91%) of US astronauts, 23/43 (53%) of US presidents and between 
75 and 80% of students at Harvard are firstborn or only children. It is of 
interest to investigate, therefore, whether a high achieving career such as 
medicine has a disproportionate number of firstborn or only children.
DESIGN: A survey of medical students.
SETTING: The University of Sheffield Medical School.
PARTICIPANTS: All students studying medicine in the academic year 2011-2012.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The proportion of firstborn or only children.
RESULTS: THERE WAS A DISPROPORTIONATE NUMBER OF STUDENTS WHO WERE FIRSTBORN OR 
ONLY CHILDREN: 53% (95% CI 49 to 58%). The expected percentage is 39.8% and 
therefore we can reject the null hypothesis. The results were consistent across 
all phases of study.
CONCLUSIONS: There is a higher than expected proportion of medical students at 
the University of Sheffield who are firstborn or only children. The data though 
highlight the issue of comparing populations. Here we are comparing a population 
of medical students with a general population. A comparison which may not be 
appropriate as medical students may be drawn from a subsample of the general 
population.

DOI: 10.1177/2054270414533327
PMCID: PMC4207295
PMID: 25352987


1411. Phys Rev E Stat Nonlin Soft Matter Phys. 2014 Feb;89(2):022802. doi: 
10.1103/PhysRevE.89.022802. Epub 2014 Feb 7.

Inequity aversion and the evolution of cooperation.

Ahmed A(1), Karlapalem K(1).

Author information:
(1)International Institute of Information Technology-Hyderabad, Centre for Data 
Engineering, Hyderabad, India.

Evolution of cooperation is a widely studied problem in biology, social science, 
economics, and artificial intelligence. Most of the existing approaches that 
explain cooperation rely on some notion of direct or indirect reciprocity. These 
reciprocity based models assume agents recognize their partner and know their 
previous interactions, which requires advanced cognitive abilities. In this 
paper we are interested in developing a model that produces cooperation without 
requiring any explicit memory of previous game plays. Our model is based on the 
notion of inequity aversion, a concept introduced within behavioral economics, 
whereby individuals care about payoff equality in outcomes. Here we explore the 
effect of using income inequality to guide partner selection and interaction. We 
study our model by considering both the well-mixed and the spatially structured 
population and present the conditions under which cooperation becomes dominant. 
Our results support the hypothesis that inequity aversion promotes cooperative 
relationship among nonkin.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevE.89.022802
PMID: 25353529 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1412. Rev Neurol. 2014 Nov 16;59(10):443-8.

[Cognitive stimulation in children with cerebral palsy].

[Article in Spanish; Abstract available in Spanish from the publisher]

Muriel V(1), Garcia-Molina A, Aparicio-Lopez C, Ensenat A, Roig-Rovira T.

Author information:
(1)Institut de Neurorehabilitacio Guttmann-UAB, 08916 Badalona, Espana.

INTRODUCTION: Cerebral palsy is often accompanied by cognitive impairment 
affecting attention, visuoperception, executive functions and working memory. 
AIMS. To analyse the effect of cognitive stimulation treatment on the cognitive 
capabilities in children with cerebral palsy.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Our sample consisted of 15 children with cerebral palsy, 
with a mean age of 8.80 ± 2.51 years, who were classified with the aid of the 
Gross Motor Function Classification System (GMFCS) on level I (n = 6), level II 
(n = 4), level III (n = 2) and level V (n = 3). Cognitive impairment was 
evaluated by means of the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children (WISC-IV) and 
the Continuous Performance Test (CPT-II). Both the questionnaires for parents 
and teachers from the Behavior Rating Inventory of Executive Function (BRIEF) 
and the Conners rating scales (CPRS-48 and CTRS-28) were administered. A 
cognitive stimulation programme was carried out at a rate of two hours a week 
for a total of eight weeks.
RESULTS: Statistically significant differences were observed after applying the 
cognitive stimulation treatment in the perceptive reasoning index of the 
WISC-IV. No differences were obtained on the Conners' and the BRIEF scores 
before and after the treatment. Neither were any differences found in the 
results on the WISC-IV according to sex or on the GMFCS.
CONCLUSIONS: The cognitive performance of children with cerebral palsy improves 
after applying a cognitive rehabilitation programme.

Publisher: TITLE: Estimulacion cognitiva en niños con paralisis cerebral.
Introduccion. La paralisis cerebral a menudo cursa con deficits cognitivos de 
atencion, visuopercepcion, funciones ejecutivas y memoria de trabajo. Objetivo. 
Analizar el efecto de un tratamiento de estimulacion cognitiva sobre las 
capacidades cognitivas en niños con pa­ralisis cerebral. Pacientes y metodos. 
Muestra de 15 niños con paralisis cerebral, con una edad media de 8,80 ± 2,51 
años, clasificados mediante el Gross Motor Function Classification System 
(GMFCS) en nivel I (n = 6), nivel II (n = 4), nivel III (n = 2) y nivel V (n = 
3). Los deficits cognitivos se evaluaron mediante la escala de inteligencia de 
Wechsler para niños (WISC-IV) y el Continuous Performance Test (CPT-II). Se 
administraron los cuestionarios para padres y profesores del Behavior Rating 
Inventory of Executive Function (BRIEF) y las escalas de evaluacion de Conners 
(CPRS-48 y CTRS-28). Se realizo un programa de estimulacion cognitiva dos horas 
semanales durante ocho semanas. Resultados. Se observaron diferencias 
estadisticamente significativas tras aplicar el tratamiento de estimulacion 
cognitivo en el indice de razonamiento perceptivo de la WISC-IV. No se 
obtuvieron diferencias antes y despues del tratamiento en las puntuaciones del 
Conners y del BRIEF. Tampoco se hallaron diferencias en los resultados de la 
WISC-IV en funcion del sexo ni en el GMFCS. Conclusion. El rendimiento cognitivo 
de los niños con paralisis cerebral mejora tras la aplicacion de un programa de 
rehabilitacion cognitiva.

PMID: 25354506 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1413. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2014 Oct 30;2014(10):CD010236. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD010236.pub2.

Treatment for epilepsy in pregnancy: neurodevelopmental outcomes in the child.

Bromley R(1), Weston J, Adab N, Greenhalgh J, Sanniti A, McKay AJ, Tudur Smith 
C, Marson AG.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Human Development, University of Manchester, 6th Floor, Genetic 
Medicine, St Mary's Hospital, Oxford Road, Manchester, UK, M13 9WL.

Comment in
    Evid Based Nurs. 2015 Oct;18(4):109.

BACKGROUND: Accumulating evidence suggests an association between prenatal 
exposure to antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) and increased risk of both physical 
anomalies and neurodevelopmental impairment. Neurodevelopmental impairment is 
characterised by either a specific deficit or a constellation of deficits across 
cognitive, motor and social skills and can be transient or continuous into 
adulthood. It is of paramount importance that these potential risks are 
identified, minimised and communicated clearly to women with epilepsy.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the effects of prenatal exposure to commonly prescribed 
AEDs on neurodevelopmental outcomes in the child and to assess the 
methodological quality of the evidence.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched the Cochrane Epilepsy Group Specialized Register 
(May 2014), Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) in The 
Cochrane Library (2014, Issue 4), MEDLINE (via Ovid) (1946 to May 2014), EMBASE 
(May 2014), Pharmline (May 2014) and Reprotox (May 2014). No language 
restrictions were imposed. Conference abstracts from the last five years were 
reviewed along with reference lists from the included studies.
SELECTION CRITERIA: Prospective cohort controlled studies, cohort studies set 
within pregnancy registers and randomised controlled trials were selected for 
inclusion. Participants were women with epilepsy taking AED treatment; the two 
control groups were women without epilepsy and women with epilepsy who were not 
taking AEDs during pregnancy.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Three authors (RB, JW and JG) independently 
selected studies for inclusion. Data extraction and risk of bias assessments 
were completed by five authors (RB, JW, AS, NA, AJM). The primary outcome was 
global cognitive functioning. Secondary outcomes included deficits in specific 
cognitive domains or prevalence of neurodevelopmental disorders. Due to 
substantial variation in study design and outcome reporting only limited data 
synthesis was possible.
MAIN RESULTS: Twenty-two prospective cohort studies were included and six 
registry based studies. Study quality varied. More recent studies tended to be 
larger and to report individual AED outcomes from blinded assessments, which 
indicate improved methodological quality.The developmental quotient (DQ) was 
lower in children exposed to carbamazepine (CBZ) (n = 50) than in children born 
to women without epilepsy (n = 79); mean difference (MD) of -5.58 (95% 
confidence interval (CI) -10.83 to -0.34, P = 0.04). The DQ of children exposed 
to CBZ (n = 163) was also lower compared to children of women with untreated 
epilepsy (n = 58) (MD -7.22, 95% CI -12.76 to - 1.67, P = 0.01). Further 
analysis using a random-effects model indicated that these results were due to 
variability within the studies and that there was no significant association 
with CBZ. The intelligence quotient (IQ) of older children exposed to CBZ (n = 
150) was not lower than that of children born to women without epilepsy (n = 
552) (MD -0.03, 95% CI -3.08 to 3.01, P = 0.98). Similarly, children exposed to 
CBZ (n = 163) were not poorer in terms of IQ in comparison to the children of 
women with untreated epilepsy (n = 87) (MD 1.84, 95% CI -2.13 to 5.80, P = 
0.36). The DQ in children exposed to sodium valproate (VPA) (n = 123) was lower 
than the DQ in children of women with untreated epilepsy (n = 58) (MD -8.72, 95% 
-14.31 to -3.14, P = 0.002). The IQ of children exposed to VPA (n = 76) was 
lower than for children born to women without epilepsy (n = 552) (MD -8.94, 95% 
CI -11.96 to -5.92, P < 0.00001). Children exposed to VPA (n = 89) also had 
lower IQ than children born to women with untreated epilepsy (n = 87) (MD -8.17, 
95% CI -12.80 to -3.55, P = 0.0005).In terms of drug comparisons, in younger 
children there was no significant difference in the DQ of children exposed to 
CBZ (n = 210) versus VPA (n=160) (MD 4.16, 95% CI -0.21 to 8.54, P = 0.06). 
However, the IQ of children exposed to VPA (n = 112) was significantly lower 
than for those exposed to CBZ (n = 191) (MD 8.69, 95% CI 5.51 to 11.87, P < 
0.00001). The IQ of children exposed to CBZ (n = 78) versus lamotrigine (LTG) (n 
= 84) was not significantly different (MD -1.62, 95% CI -5.44 to 2.21, P = 
0.41). There was no significant difference in the DQ of children exposed to CBZ 
(n = 172) versus phenytoin (PHT) (n = 87) (MD 3.02, 95% CI -2.41 to 8.46, P = 
0.28). The IQ abilities of children exposed to CBZ (n = 75) were not different 
from the abilities of children exposed to PHT (n = 45) (MD -3.30, 95% CI -7.91 
to 1.30, P = 0.16). IQ was significantly lower for children exposed to VPA (n = 
74) versus LTG (n = 84) (MD -10.80, 95% CI -14.42 to -7.17, P < 0.00001). DQ was 
higher in children exposed to PHT (n = 80) versus VPA (n = 108) (MD 7.04, 95% CI 
0.44 to 13.65, P = 0.04). Similarly IQ was higher in children exposed to PHT (n 
= 45) versus VPA (n = 61) (MD 9.25, 95% CI 4.78 to 13.72, P < 0.0001). A dose 
effect for VPA was reported in six studies, with higher doses (800 to 1000 mg 
daily or above) associated with a poorer cognitive outcome in the child. We 
identified no convincing evidence of a dose effect for CBZ, PHT or LTG. Studies 
not included in the meta-analysis were reported narratively, the majority of 
which supported the findings of the meta-analyses.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: The most important finding is the reduction in IQ in the 
VPA exposed group, which are sufficient to affect education and occupational 
outcomes in later life. However, for some women VPA is the most effective drug 
at controlling seizures. Informed treatment decisions require detailed 
counselling about these risks at treatment initiation and at pre-conceptual 
counselling. We have insufficient data about newer AEDs, some of which are 
commonly prescribed, and further research is required. Most women with epilepsy 
should continue their medication during pregnancy as uncontrolled seizures also 
carries a maternal risk.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD010236.pub2
PMCID: PMC7390020
PMID: 25354543 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: RB has provided expert opinion regarding child 
outcomes following prenatal exposure to AEDs and has contributed to studies 
funded by Sanofi Aventis and UCB Pharma. NA has been sponsored to attend 
educational meetings and conferences in epilepsy over the last five years by UCB 
Pharma, GSK and Boehringer Ingelheim, and has participated in regional advisory 
Board meetings for Eisai on their products eslicarbazepine and zonisamide.
AM 
has been sponsored to attend a conference and has had research funding from 
Pfizer Ltd. Also a consortium of pharmaceutical companies (GSK, EISAI, UCB 
Pharma) funded the National Audit of Seizure Management in Hospitals (NASH) 
through grants paid to University of Liverpool. 
No further conflicts of 
interests declared. Clarification statement added from the Co‐ordinating Editor 
on 8 June 2020: This review was found by the Cochrane Funding Arbiters, 
post‐publication, to be noncompliant with the Cochrane conflict of interest 
policy, which includes the relevant parts of the Cochrane Commercial Sponsorship 
Policy. It will be updated within 12 months. The update will have a majority of 
authors and lead author free of conflicts


1414. Nurs Manag (Harrow). 2014 Oct 30;21(7):15. doi: 10.7748/nm.21.7.15.s23.

Skills and knowledge.

[No authors listed]

Two practical 'how-to' guides have been launched by NHS Improving Quality to 
support health and care professionals to improve their skills and knowledge 
continually. The Learning Handbook ( media.nhsiq.nhs.uk/learninghandbook ) helps 
readers take a systematic approach to learning, capture and share learning that 
can inform best practice, and focus on activities that will give them the 
greatest chance of improved outcomes. It is designed to help people obtain the 
best value out of all learning opportunities. The Intelligence Handbook ( 
media.nhsiq.nhs.uk/intelligencehandbook ), on the other hand, guides readers 
through the process of finding, filtering and understanding intelligence and 
will help them distil new information and use it to best advantage. Both 
handbooks signpost to further reading and resources.

DOI: 10.7748/nm.21.7.15.s23
PMID: 25355119


1415. PLoS One. 2014 Oct 30;9(10):e111435. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0111435. 
eCollection 2014.

Identifying the core components of emotional intelligence: evidence from 
amplitude of low-frequency fluctuations during resting state.

Pan W(1), Wang T(1), Wang X(1), Hitchman G(1), Wang L(1), Chen A(1).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Cognition and Personality (Ministry of Education), Faculty 
of Psychology, Southwest University, Chongqing, China.

Emotional intelligence (EI) is a multi-faceted construct consisting of our 
ability to perceive, monitor, regulate and use emotions. Despite much attention 
being paid to the neural substrates of EI, little is known of the spontaneous 
brain activity associated with EI during resting state. We used resting-state 
fMRI to investigate the association between the amplitude of low-frequency 
fluctuations (ALFFs) and EI in a large sample of young, healthy adults. We found 
that EI was significantly associated with ALFFs in key nodes of two networks: 
the social emotional processing network (the fusiform gyrus, right superior 
orbital frontal gyrus, left inferior frontal gyrus and left inferior parietal 
lobule) and the cognitive control network (the bilateral pre-SMA, cerebellum and 
right precuneus). These findings suggest that the neural correlates of EI 
involve several brain regions in two crucial networks, which reflect the core 
components of EI: emotion perception and emotional control.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0111435
PMCID: PMC4214743
PMID: 25356830 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


1416. J Med Internet Res. 2014 Oct 30;16(10):e233. doi: 10.2196/jmir.3807.

Rapid grading of fundus photographs for diabetic retinopathy using 
crowdsourcing.

Brady CJ(1), Villanti AC, Pearson JL, Kirchner TR, Gupta OP, Shah CP.

Author information:
(1)Wills Eye Hospital, Retina Service: Mid Atlantic Retina, Philadelphia, PA, 
United States. brady@jhmi.edu.

BACKGROUND: Screening for diabetic retinopathy is both effective and 
cost-effective, but rates of screening compliance remain suboptimal. As 
screening improves, new methods to deal with screening data may help reduce the 
human resource needs. Crowdsourcing has been used in many contexts to harness 
distributed human intelligence for the completion of small tasks including image 
categorization.
OBJECTIVE: Our goal was to develop and validate a novel method for fundus 
photograph grading.
METHODS: An interface for fundus photo classification was developed for the 
Amazon Mechanical Turk crowdsourcing platform. We posted 19 expert-graded images 
for grading by Turkers, with 10 repetitions per photo for an initial 
proof-of-concept (Phase I). Turkers were paid US $0.10 per image. In Phase II, 
one prototypical image from each of the four grading categories received 500 
unique Turker interpretations. Fifty draws of 1-50 Turkers were then used to 
estimate the variance in accuracy derived from randomly drawn samples of 
increasing crowd size to determine the minimum number of Turkers needed to 
produce valid results. In Phase III, the interface was modified to attempt to 
improve Turker grading.
RESULTS: Across 230 grading instances in the normal versus abnormal arm of Phase 
I, 187 images (81.3%) were correctly classified by Turkers. Average time to 
grade each image was 25 seconds, including time to review training images. With 
the addition of grading categories, time to grade each image increased and 
percentage of images graded correctly decreased. In Phase II, area under the 
curve (AUC) of the receiver-operator characteristic (ROC) indicated that 
sensitivity and specificity were maximized after 7 graders for ratings of normal 
versus abnormal (AUC=0.98) but was significantly reduced (AUC=0.63) when Turkers 
were asked to specify the level of severity. With improvements to the interface 
in Phase III, correctly classified images by the mean Turker grade in 
four-category grading increased to a maximum of 52.6% (10/19 images) from 26.3% 
(5/19 images). Throughout all trials, 100% sensitivity for normal versus 
abnormal was maintained.
CONCLUSIONS: With minimal training, the Amazon Mechanical Turk workforce can 
rapidly and correctly categorize fundus photos of diabetic patients as normal or 
abnormal, though further refinement of the methodology is needed to improve 
Turker ratings of the degree of retinopathy. Images were interpreted for a total 
cost of US $1.10 per eye. Crowdsourcing may offer a novel and inexpensive means 
to reduce the skilled grader burden and increase screening for diabetic 
retinopathy.

DOI: 10.2196/jmir.3807
PMCID: PMC4259907
PMID: 25356929 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: None declared.


1417. Plast Reconstr Surg. 2014 Oct;134(4):608e-617e. doi: 
10.1097/PRS.0000000000000511.

The impact of age at surgery on long-term neuropsychological outcomes in 
sagittal craniosynostosis.

Patel A(1), Yang JF, Hashim PW, Travieso R, Terner J, Mayes LC, Kanev P, Duncan 
C, Jane J Jr, Jane J Sr, Pollack I, Losee JE, Bridgett DJ, Persing JA.

Author information:
(1)New Haven and Hartford, Conn.; Charlottesville, Va.; Pittsburgh, Pa.; and 
DeKalb, Ill. From the Section of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, Yale 
University School of Medicine; the Craniofacial Surgery Center, Connecticut 
Children's Medical Center; the Department of Neurosurgery, University of 
Virginia School of Medicine; the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine; 
and the Department of Psychology, Northern Illinois University.

BACKGROUND: The relationship between surgical age and long-term 
neuropsychological outcomes in sagittal-suture craniosynostosis remains 
equivocal. Whole-vault cranioplasty and strip craniectomy are performed at 
various times in individuals with sagittal-suture craniosynostosis. This study 
used comprehensive neurological testing to examine the relationship between age 
at time of surgery and long-term neuropsychological function.
METHODS: Seventy sagittal-suture craniosynostosis patients who had previously 
undergone either whole-vault cranioplasty or strip craniectomy were examined 
divided into three groups: treatment before 6 months (n = 41), between 6 and 12 
months (n = 21), and after 12 months (n = 8). To examine long-term cognitive 
functioning, participants between the ages of 5 and 25 years underwent 
neurodevelopmental tests to evaluate intelligence, achievement, and learning 
disabilities.
RESULTS: Compared with those treated between 6 and 12 months and after 12 
months, patients who underwent surgery before 6 months demonstrated higher 
full-scale IQ (p < 0.01) and verbal IQ (p < 0.01). Patients who received surgery 
before 6 months also demonstrated superior abilities in word reading (p < 0.01), 
reading comprehension (p < 0.01), spelling (p < 0.01), and numerical operations 
(p < 0.05) relative to those who had surgery between 6 and 12 months old. A 
statistically significant higher percentage of patients treated after 6 months 
had one or more reading-related learning disabilities as compared with those 
undergoing earlier surgery.
CONCLUSIONS: This study suggests that surgery before 6 months old results in 
improved long-term neurological outcomes. Future studies should examine how the 
technique of surgery impacts these neuropsychological measures.
CLINICAL QUESTION/LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Therapeutic, III.

DOI: 10.1097/PRS.0000000000000511
PMID: 25357055 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1418. Health Commun. 2015;30(11):1112-21. doi: 10.1080/10410236.2014.921753. Epub 2014 
Oct 30.

Does Emotions Communication Ability Affect Psychological Well-Being? A Study 
with the Mayer-Salovey-Caruso Emotional Intelligence Test (MSCEIT) v2.0.

Lanciano T(1), Curci A.

Author information:
(1)a Department of Educational Sciences, Psychology, Communication , University 
of Bari "A. Moro"

The main aim of the current study was to provide evidence regarding the 
relationship between emotions communication ability--in terms of emotional 
intelligence (EI)--and psychological well-being. Additionally, the study 
explored the moderating effect of sex on this relationship. Participants filled 
in the Mayer-Salovey-Caruso Emotional Intelligence Test, General Health 
Questionnaire, Psychological General Well-Being Index, and Depression 
Questionnaire. Results showed the moderating role of sex in the relationship 
between EI ability and psychological well-being. Furthermore, the associations 
between EI and psychological well-being measures were generally higher for men 
than for women, supporting the idea that sex needs to be taken into account when 
considering EI measures. The potential helpfulness of EI and emotions 
communications ability in promoting mental health is discussed.

DOI: 10.1080/10410236.2014.921753
PMID: 25357255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1419. Stem Cell Reports. 2014 Oct 14;3(4):548-55. doi: 10.1016/j.stemcr.2014.07.013. 
Epub 2014 Sep 11.

Epigenetic characterization of the FMR1 promoter in induced pluripotent stem 
cells from human fibroblasts carrying an unmethylated full mutation.

de Esch CE(1), Ghazvini M(2), Loos F(3), Schelling-Kazaryan N(4), Widagdo W(1), 
Munshi ST(5), van der Wal E(6), Douben H(1), Gunhanlar N(5), Kushner SA(5), 
Pijnappel WW(6), de Vrij FM(5), Geijsen N(7), Gribnau J(3), Willemsen R(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Genetics, Erasmus Medical Center, 3015 GE Rotterdam, 
the Netherlands.
(2)iPS Cell Facility, Erasmus Medical Center, 3015 GE Rotterdam, the 
Netherlands; Department of Reproduction and Development, Erasmus Medical Center, 
3015 GE Rotterdam, the Netherlands.
(3)Department of Reproduction and Development, Erasmus Medical Center, 3015 GE 
Rotterdam, the Netherlands.
(4)KNAW Hubrecht Institute and UMC Utrecht, 3584 CT Utrecht, the Netherlands.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, Erasmus Medical Center, 3015 GE Rotterdam, the 
Netherlands.
(6)Molecular Stem Cell Biology, Department of Clinical Genetics and Department 
of Pediatrics, Division of Metabolic Diseases and Genetics, Center for Lysosomal 
and Metabolic Diseases, Erasmus Medical Center, 3015 GE Rotterdam, the 
Netherlands.
(7)KNAW Hubrecht Institute and UMC Utrecht, 3584 CT Utrecht, the Netherlands; 
Department Companion Animals, Utrecht University School for Veterinary Medicine, 
3508 TD Utrecht, the Netherlands.
(8)Department of Clinical Genetics, Erasmus Medical Center, 3015 GE Rotterdam, 
the Netherlands. Electronic address: r.willemsen@erasmusmc.nl.

Silencing of the FMR1 gene leads to fragile X syndrome, the most common cause of 
inherited intellectual disability. To study the epigenetic modifications of the 
FMR1 gene during silencing in time, we used fibroblasts and induced pluripotent 
stem cells (iPSCs) of an unmethylated full mutation (uFM) individual with normal 
intelligence. The uFM fibroblast line carried an unmethylated FMR1 promoter 
region and expressed normal to slightly increased FMR1 mRNA levels. The FMR1 
expression in the uFM line corresponds with the increased H3 acetylation and 
H3K4 methylation in combination with a reduced H3K9 methylation. After 
reprogramming, the FMR1 promoter region was methylated in all uFM iPSC clones. 
Two clones were analyzed further and showed a lack of FMR1 expression, whereas 
the presence of specific histone modifications also indicated a repressed FMR1 
promoter. In conclusion, these findings demonstrate that the standard 
reprogramming procedure leads to epigenetic silencing of the fully mutated FMR1 
gene.

Copyright © 2014 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.stemcr.2014.07.013
PMCID: PMC4223701
PMID: 25358783 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1420. Clin Neuropsychol. 2014;28(8):1258-77. doi: 10.1080/13854046.2014.975843. Epub 
2014 Oct 31.

Confirmatory factor analysis of the Reynolds Intellectual Assessment Scales 
(RIAS) in Canadian children.

Irwin JK(1), Joschko M, Kerns KA.

Author information:
(1)a Department of Psychology , University of Victoria , British Columbia V8W 
2Y2 , Canada.

The purpose of the current study was to assess the validity of the Reynolds 
Intellectual Assessment Scale's (RIAS) index and subtest scores by examining 
whether the RIAS conforms to Carroll's ( 1993 ) three-stratum theory of 
cognitive ability and the Cattell-Horn Gf-Gc (Horn & Cattell, 1966 ) theory of 
intelligence upon which it was based. Factor structures of RIAS scores from 
typically developing (n = 187) and mixed clinical groups (n = 164), 4-18 years 
old, were compared using confirmatory factor analysis. The results were mixed, 
with some findings supporting the validity of the Composite Intelligence Index 
(CIX), Nonverbal Intelligence Index (NIX), and Verbal Intelligence Index (VIX) 
while others suggested that the CIX and NIX in particular should be interpreted 
with caution, depending on the population in which the RIAS is being used. The 
functioning of the two nonverbal subtests in all analyses suggested that the 
RIAS's nonverbal subtests are most problematic, with the greatest impact on the 
RIAS's validity as a measure of overall, verbal, and nonverbal intelligence. The 
RIAS's use as a general cognitive screener is supported but caution is 
recommended if the RIAS is being used to make important diagnostic, 
qualification for services, forensic, or placement decisions.

DOI: 10.1080/13854046.2014.975843
PMID: 25359205 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1421. Front Hum Neurosci. 2014 Oct 15;8:806. doi: 10.3389/fnhum.2014.00806. 
eCollection 2014.

Abnormal development of sensory-motor, visual temporal and parahippocampal 
cortex in children with learning disabilities and borderline intellectual 
functioning.

Baglio F(1), Cabinio M(2), Ricci C(3), Baglio G(1), Lipari S(1), Griffanti L(4), 
Preti MG(4), Nemni R(2), Clerici M(2), Zanette M(1), Blasi V(1).

Author information:
(1)IRCCS, Don Carlo Gnocchi Foundation - ONLUS Milan, Italy.
(2)IRCCS, Don Carlo Gnocchi Foundation - ONLUS Milan, Italy ; Department of 
Pathophysiology and Transplantation, University of Milan Milan, Italy.
(3)IRCCS, Don Carlo Gnocchi Foundation - ONLUS Milan, Italy ; Department of 
Epidemiology and Preventive Medicine, University of Regensburg Germany.
(4)IRCCS, Don Carlo Gnocchi Foundation - ONLUS Milan, Italy ; Department of 
Electronics, Information and Bioengineering Politecnico di Milano, Milan, Italy.

Borderline intellectual functioning (BIF) is a condition characterized by an 
intelligence quotient (IQ) between 70 and 85. BIF children present with 
cognitive, motor, social, and adaptive limitations that result in learning 
disabilities and are more likely to develop psychiatric disorders later in life. 
The aim of this study was to investigate brain morphometry and its relation to 
IQ level in BIF children. Thirteen children with BIF and 14 age- and sex-matched 
typically developing (TD) children were enrolled. All children underwent a full 
IQ assessment (WISC-III scale) and a magnetic resonance (MR) examination 
including conventional sequences to assess brain structural abnormalities and 
high resolution 3D images for voxel-based morphometry analysis. To investigate 
to what extent the group influenced gray matter (GM) volumes, both univariate 
and multivariate generalized linear model analysis of variance were used, and 
the varimax factor analysis was used to explore variable correlations and 
clusters among subjects. Results showed that BIF children, compared to controls 
have increased regional GM volume in bilateral sensorimotor and right posterior 
temporal cortices and decreased GM volume in the right parahippocampal gyrus. GM 
volumes were highly correlated with IQ indices. The present work is a case study 
of a group of BIF children showing that BIF is associated with abnormal cortical 
development in brain areas that have a pivotal role in motor, learning, and 
behavioral processes. Our findings, although allowing for little generalization 
to the general population, contribute to the very limited knowledge in this 
field. Future longitudinal MR studies will be useful in verifying whether 
cortical features can be modified over time even in association with 
rehabilitative intervention.

DOI: 10.3389/fnhum.2014.00806
PMCID: PMC4197777
PMID: 25360097


1422. Clin Psychol Sci. 2014 Mar;2(2):119-137. doi: 10.1177/2167702613497473.

The p Factor: One General Psychopathology Factor in the Structure of Psychiatric 
Disorders?

Caspi A(1), Houts RM(2), Belsky DW(3), Goldman-Mellor SJ(4), Harrington H(2), 
Israel S(2), Meier MH(2), Ramrakha S(5), Shalev I(2), Poulton R(5), Moffitt 
TE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology and Neuroscience, Duke University ; Institute for 
Genome Sciences and Policy, Duke University ; Department of Psychiatry and 
Behavioral Sciences, Duke University Medical Center ; Social, Genetic, and 
Developmental Psychiatry Centre, Institute of Psychiatry, King's College London.
(2)Department of Psychology and Neuroscience, Duke University.
(3)Center for the Study of Aging and Human Development, Duke University Medical 
Center.
(4)Center for Developmental Science, University of North Carolina at Chapel 
Hill.
(5)Dunedin Multidisciplinary Health and Development Research Unit, Department, 
of Preventive and Social Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Otago.

Mental disorders traditionally have been viewed as distinct, episodic, and 
categorical conditions. This view has been challenged by evidence that many 
disorders are sequentially comorbid, recurrent/chronic, and exist on a 
continuum. Using the Dunedin Multidisciplinary Health and Development Study, we 
examined the structure of psychopathology, taking into account dimensionality, 
persistence, co-occurrence, and sequential comorbidity of mental disorders 
across 20 years, from adolescence to midlife. Psychiatric disorders were 
initially explained by three higher-order factors (Internalizing, Externalizing, 
and Thought Disorder) but explained even better with one General Psychopathology 
dimension. We have called this dimension the p factor because it conceptually 
parallels a familiar dimension in psychological science: the g factor of general 
intelligence. Higher p scores are associated with more life impairment, greater 
familiality, worse developmental histories, and more compromised early-life 
brain function. The p factor explains why it is challenging to find causes, 
consequences, biomarkers, and treatments with specificity to individual mental 
disorders. Transdiagnostic approaches may improve research.

DOI: 10.1177/2167702613497473
PMCID: PMC4209412
PMID: 25360393

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting Interests The authors 
declared that they had no conflicts of interest with respect to their authorship 
or the publication of this article.


1423. Pediatr Infect Dis J. 2014 Sep;33(9):e232-8. doi: 10.1097/INF.0000000000000314.

Discordance of cognitive and academic achievement outcomes in youth with 
perinatal HIV exposure.

Garvie PA(1), Zeldow B, Malee K, Nichols SL, Smith RA, Wilkins ML, Williams PL; 
Pediatric HIVAIDS Cohort Study (PHACS).

Collaborators: Siminski S, Davidson J, Shearer W, Paul M, Cooper N, Harris L, 
Purswani M, Baig M, Cintron A, Puga A, Navarro S, Patton D, Garvie P, Burchett 
S, Karthas N, Kammerer B, Lurie RH, Yogev R, Sanders MA, Malee K, Hunter S, 
Wiznia A, Burey M, Nozyce M, Chen J, Ivey L, Bulkley MG, Grant M, Knapp K, 
Allison K, Wilkins M, Acevedo-Flores M, Olivera RV, Silio M, Jones M, Sirois P, 
Spector S, Norris K, Nichols S, McFarland E, Barr E, McEvoy R, Dieudonne A, 
Bettica L, Adubato S, Scott G, Bryan P, Willen E.

Author information:
(1)From the *Children's Diagnostic & Treatment Center, Fort Lauderdale, FL; 
†Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, MA; ‡Northwestern University Feinberg 
School of Medicine, Chicago, IL; §University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, 
CA; ¶University of Illinois at Chicago, Chicago, IL; and ‖St. Jude Children's 
Research Hospital, Memphis, TN.

BACKGROUND: To evaluate achievement in youth with perinatally acquired HIV 
(PHIV) compared with HIV-exposed uninfected peers (HEU) and to examine 
differential effects of HIV on cognition-achievement concordance.
METHODS: Cognition and achievement were assessed using standardized measures. 
Intelligence quotient-derived predicted achievement scores were subtracted from 
observed achievement scores to calculate discrepancy values. Linear regression 
models were used to compare achievement discrepancies between PHIV and HEU, 
adjusting for demographic covariates.
PARTICIPANTS: 295 PHIV and 167 HEU youth; 71% black, 48% male, mean age 13.1 and 
11.3 years, respectively. PHIV youth were relatively healthy (mean CD4%, 32%; 
viral load ≤400 copies/mL, 72%). PHIV and HEU youth had cognitive and 
achievement scores significantly below population norm means (P < 0.001), but 
did not differ in cognition (mean full scale IQ = 86.7 vs. 89.4, respectively). 
In unadjusted models, HEU outperformed PHIV youth on total achievement (mean = 
89.2 vs. 86.0, P = 0.04) and numerical operations (mean = 88.8 vs. 82.9, P < 
0.001); no differences remained after adjustment. Mean observed-predicted 
achievement discrepancies reflected "underachievement". History of 
encephalopathy predicted poorer achievement (P = 0.039) and greater 
underachievement, even after adjustment. PHIV showed greater underachievement 
than HEU for numerical operations (P < 0.001) and total achievement (P = 0.03), 
but these differences did not persist in adjusted models.
CONCLUSIONS: Both PHIV and HEU youth demonstrated lower achievement than 
normative samples and underachieved relative to predicted achievement scores. 
Observed-predicted achievement discrepancies were associated with prior 
encephalopathy, older age and other non-HIV factors. PHIV youth with prior 
encephalopathy had significantly lower achievement and greater underachievement 
compared with PHIV without encephalopathy and HEU youth, even in adjusted 
models.

DOI: 10.1097/INF.0000000000000314
PMCID: PMC4217131
PMID: 25361033 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1424. Pediatr Infect Dis J. 2014 Nov;33(11):1128-33. doi: 
10.1097/INF.0000000000000410.

Safety of in utero and neonatal antiretroviral exposure: cognitive and academic 
outcomes in HIV-exposed, uninfected children 5-13 years of age.

Nozyce ML(1), Huo Y, Williams PL, Kapetanovic S, Hazra R, Nichols S, Hunter S, 
Smith R, Seage GR 3rd, Sirois PA; Pediatric HIVAIDS Cohort Study.

Collaborators: Shearer W, Paul M, Cooper N, Harris L, Purswani M, Stuard E, 
Cintron A, Puga A, Cooley D, Patton D, Leon D, Yogev R, Sanders MA, Malee K, 
Hunter S, Borkowsky W, Deygoo S, Rozelman H, Knapp K, Allison K, Wilkins M, 
Acevedo-Flores M, Angeli-Nieves L, Olivera V, Mendez H, Dennie A, Bewley S, Van 
Dyke R, Craig K, Sirois P, Crain M, Beatty N, Marullo D, Spector S, Manning J, 
Nichols S, McFarland E, Barr E, McEvoy R, Rathore M, Stowers K, Usitalo A, Rich 
K, Richardson L, Turpin D, Smith R, Dieudonne A, Bettica L, Adubato S, Scott G, 
Florez C, Willen E, Frederick T, Davtyan M, Mejia M, Rodriguez Z, Heyer I, 
Scalley Trifilio N.

Author information:
(1)From the *Jacobi Medical Center, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, New 
York, NY; †Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, MA; ‡National Institute of 
Mental Health, Bethesda; §Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child 
Health and Human Development, Rockville, MD; ¶University of California, San 
Diego, CA; ‖University of Chicago; **University of Illinois, Chicago, IL; 
††Tulane University School of Medicine, New Orleans, LA.

BACKGROUND: Long-term effects of in utero and neonatal antiretroviral (ARV) 
exposure on cognitive and academic development in HIV-exposed, uninfected 
school-age children are unknown.
METHODS: HIV-exposed, uninfected children, ages 5-13 years, in Pediatric 
HIV/AIDS Cohort Study Surveillance Monitoring for Antiretroviral Treatment 
Toxicities, a US-based multisite cohort study, completed age-appropriate 
Wechsler intelligence and academic scales (WPPSI-III, WASI, WIAT-II-A). 
Associations between cognitive and academic outcomes and in utero ARV exposure 
by regimen, class and individual ARVs were evaluated, adjusting for potential 
confounders.
RESULTS: Children completing WPPSI-IIIs (n = 350) were 49% male, 74% Black, 25% 
Hispanic; WASI (n = 337) and WIAT-II-A (n = 415) cohorts were similar. The 
percentage exposed to combination ARV (cARV) was 84% (WPPSI-III), 64% (WASI) and 
67% (WIAT-II-A). Among ARV-exposed children, there were no significant 
associations between any ARV regimen or class and any cognitive or academic 
outcome. In addition, in both unadjusted models and after adjustment for 
caregiver IQ, sociodemographic factors and maternal health and substance use 
during pregnancy, no individual ARV drug was associated with significantly lower 
cognitive or academic scores. Factors typically associated with lower cognitive 
and academic scores in the general population, such as prematurity, small for 
gestational age, maternal alcohol use and lower maternal cognitive status, were 
also associated with lower scores in this study.
CONCLUSIONS: Overall, the safety of prenatal and neonatal ARV use was supported.

DOI: 10.1097/INF.0000000000000410
PMCID: PMC4217087
PMID: 25361407 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest: The authors have no 
conflicts of interest or funding to disclose.


1425. Clin Infect Dis. 2015 Feb 1;60(3):473-80. doi: 10.1093/cid/ciu862. Epub 2014 Oct 
31.

Neurocognitive change in the era of HIV combination antiretroviral therapy: the 
longitudinal CHARTER study.

Heaton RK(1), Franklin DR Jr(1), Deutsch R(1), Letendre S(1), Ellis RJ(1), 
Casaletto K(1), Marquine MJ(1), Woods SP(1), Vaida F(1), Atkinson JH(2), 
Marcotte TD(1), McCutchan JA(1), Collier AC(3), Marra CM(3), Clifford DB(4), 
Gelman BB(5), Sacktor N(6), Morgello S(7), Simpson DM(7), Abramson I(1), Gamst 
AC(1), Fennema-Notestine C(1), Smith DM(1), Grant I(1); CHARTER Group.

Collaborators: Grant I, McCutchan J, Ellis RJ, Marcotte TD, Franklin D Jr, Ellis 
RJ, McCutchan J, Alexander T, Letendre S, Capparelli E, Heaton RK, Atkinson J, 
Woods SP, Dawson M, Smith DM, Fennema-Notestine C, Taylor MJ, Theilmann R, Gamst 
AC, Cushman C, Abramson I, Vaida F, Marcotte TD, Marquie-Beck J, McArthur J, 
Rogalski V, Morgello S, Simpson D, Mintz L, McCutchan J, Toperoff W, Collier A, 
Marra C, Jones T, Gelman B, Head E, Clifford D, Al-Lozi M, Teshome M.

Author information:
(1)University of California, San Diego.
(2)University of California, San Diego Veterans Affairs San Diego Healthcare 
System, California.
(3)University of Washington, Seattle.
(4)Washington University, St Louis, Missouri.
(5)University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston.
(6)Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland.
(7)Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, New York.

Comment in
    Clin Infect Dis. 2015 Feb 1;60(3):481-2.
    Clin Infect Dis. 2015 May 1;60(9):1441-2.
    Clin Infect Dis. 2015 May 1;60(9):1442-3.

BACKGROUND: Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-associated neurocognitive 
disorders (HAND) can show variable clinical trajectories. Previous longitudinal 
studies of HAND typically have been brief, did not use adequate normative 
standards, or were conducted in the context of a clinical trial, thereby 
limiting our understanding of incident neurocognitive (NC) decline and recovery.
METHODS: We investigated the incidence and predictors of NC change over 16-72 
(mean, 35) months in 436 HIV-infected participants in the CNS HIV 
Anti-Retroviral Therapy Effects Research cohort. Comprehensive laboratory, 
neuromedical, and NC assessments were obtained every 6 months. Published, 
regression-based norms for NC change were used to generate overall change status 
(decline vs stable vs improved) at each study visit. Survival analysis was used 
to examine the predictors of time to NC change.
RESULTS: Ninety-nine participants (22.7%) declined, 265 (60.8%) remained stable, 
and 72 (16.5%) improved. In multivariable analyses, predictors of NC 
improvements or declines included time-dependent treatment status and indicators 
of disease severity (current hematocrit, albumin, total protein, aspartate 
aminotransferase), and baseline demographics and estimated premorbid 
intelligence quotient, non-HIV-related comorbidities, current depressive 
symptoms, and lifetime psychiatric diagnoses (overall model P < .0001).
CONCLUSIONS: NC change is common in HIV infection and appears to be driven by a 
complex set of risk factors involving HIV disease, its treatment, and comorbid 
conditions.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Infectious Diseases Society of America. All rights reserved. For Permissions, 
please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/cid/ciu862
PMCID: PMC4303775
PMID: 25362201 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1426. Dev Med Child Neurol. 2015 May;57(5):463-9. doi: 10.1111/dmcn.12620. Epub 2014 
Nov 2.

Stability of cognitive performance in children with mild intellectual 
disability.

Jenni OG(1), Fintelmann S, Caflisch J, Latal B, Rousson V, Chaouch A.

Author information:
(1)Child Development Center, University Children's Hospital Zürich, Zürich, 
Switzerland; Children's Research Center, University Children's Hospital Zürich, 
Zürich, Switzerland.

AIM: Longitudinal studies that have examined cognitive performance in children 
with intellectual disability more than twice over the course of their 
development are scarce. We assessed population and individual stability of 
cognitive performance in a clinical sample of children with borderline to mild 
non-syndromic intellectual disability.
METHOD: Thirty-six children (28 males, eight females; age range 3-19y) with 
borderline to mild intellectual disability (Full-scale IQ [FSIQ] 50-85) of 
unknown origin were examined in a retrospective clinical case series using 
linear mixed models including at least three assessments with standardized 
intelligence tests.
RESULTS: Average cognitive performance remained remarkably stable over time 
(high population stability, drop of only 0.38 IQ points per year, standard 
error=0.39, p=0.325) whereas individual stability was at best moderate 
(intraclass correlation of 0.58), indicating that about 60% of the residual 
variation in FSIQ scores can be attributed to between-child variability. Neither 
sex nor socio-economic status had a statistically significant impact on FSIQ.
INTERPRETATION: Although intellectual disability during childhood is a 
relatively stable phenomenon, individual stability of IQ is only moderate, 
likely to be caused by test-to-test reliability (e.g. level of child's 
cooperation, motivation, and attention). Therefore, clinical decisions and 
predictions should not rely on single IQ assessments, but should also consider 
adaptive functioning and previous developmental history.

© 2014 Mac Keith Press.

DOI: 10.1111/dmcn.12620
PMID: 25363202 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1427. Hum Psychopharmacol. 2014 Nov;29(6):589-98. doi: 10.1002/hup.2446. Epub 2014 Nov 
3.

Effects of endogenous and exogenous progesterone on emotional intelligence in 
cocaine-dependent men and women who also abuse alcohol.

Milivojevic V(1), Sinha R, Morgan PT, Sofuoglu M, Fox HC.

Author information:
(1)The Connecticut Mental Health Center, Yale University School of Medicine, 
Department of Psychiatry, New Haven, CT, USA.

OBJECTIVE: As sex differences in substance dependence may impinge upon the 
perception and regulation of emotion, we assess emotional intelligence (EI) as a 
function of gender, menstrual cycle (MC) phase and hormonal changes in early 
abstinent cocaine-dependent individuals who abuse alcohol (CDA).
METHODS: Study 1: The Mayer, Salovey, and Caruso Emotional Intelligence Test 
(MSCEIT) was administered to 98 CDA (55 M/43 F) and 56 healthy (28 M/28 F) 
individuals. Performance in women was also assessed by MC phase. Study 2: The 
MSCEIT was administered to 28 CDA (19 M/9 F) who received exogenous progesterone 
(400 mg/day) versus placebo for 7 days (study 2).
RESULTS: Study 1: Healthy females were better than healthy males at facilitating 
thought and managing emotions. This gender discrepancy was not observed in the 
CDA group. Additionally, all women in the high compared with the low 
progesterone phase of their MC were better at managing their emotions. Study 2: 
Exogenous progesterone improved ability to facilitate thought in both males and 
females.
CONCLUSIONS: CDA women may be vulnerable to difficulties managing and regulating 
emotions. Gonadal hormones may contribute to this gender effect, as increases in 
both endogenous and exogenous progesterone improved selective aspects of EI.

Copyright © 2014 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hup.2446
PMCID: PMC4498951
PMID: 25363303 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: No conflicts of interest 
have been declared.


1428. Int J Pharm Pract. 2015 Aug;23(4):248-255. doi: 10.1111/ijpp.12153. Epub 2014 
Nov 3.

Online reporting of pseudoephedrine pharmacy sales: does Australia require a 
mandatory system?

Devaney M(1), Ferris J(1), Mazerolle L(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Social Science Research, The University of Queensland, St 
Lucia, QLD, Australia.

OBJECTIVE: The objective of our research was to compare the reported pharmacy 
sales of pseudoephedrine-based medication in state where the electronic 
recording of sales is mandatory, Queensland, with a state where recording is 
voluntary, Victoria.
METHODS: Unidentified, unit-record, pseudoephedrine-based medication transaction 
data (known as ProjectSTOP), for both states, were made available by GuildLink 
Pty Ltd, the data custodians. Data provided dated from roll-out, 8 November 2005 
(Queensland) and 10 August 2007 (Victoria) to 16 October 2012 (the last entry at 
the time of request). Data were stored on a secure, password-protected computer 
at the University of Queensland, Australia, where it was prepared and analysed.
KEY FINDINGS: The rate of uptake of ProjectSTOP in Queensland compared with 
Victoria differed significantly; 1 year after roll-out, 72% of pharmacies in 
Queensland had used the system compared with 41% in Victoria. There were 
significant differences in transaction rates between Queensland and Victoria; 
the transaction rate in Queensland was four times greater than Victoria 1 year 
after roll-out. Our data show that Victoria captured fewer cases of multiple 
purchases using the same identification (i.e. suspected pseudo-runner activity) 
than in Queensland (112 compared with 517 cases in 2011).
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings show, not surprisingly, that by making the electronic 
recording of pseudoephedrine-based medication sales mandatory, there is 
increased uptake and use of the recording system ProjectSTOP. Importantly, by 
using ProjectSTOP comprehensively, the data can provide useful intelligence for 
the identification of trends and patterns of activity in relation to the 
diversion of pseudoephedrine-based medications.

© 2014 Royal Pharmaceutical Society.

DOI: 10.1111/ijpp.12153
PMID: 25363467


1429. Nature. 2014 Nov 13;515(7526):216-21. doi: 10.1038/nature13908. Epub 2014 Oct 
29.

The contribution of de novo coding mutations to autism spectrum disorder.

Iossifov I(1), O'Roak BJ(2), Sanders SJ(3), Ronemus M(1), Krumm N(4), Levy D(1), 
Stessman HA(4), Witherspoon KT(4), Vives L(4), Patterson KE(4), Smith JD(4), 
Paeper B(4), Nickerson DA(4), Dea J(5), Dong S(6), Gonzalez LE(7), Mandell 
JD(5), Mane SM(8), Murtha MT(7), Sullivan CA(7), Walker MF(5), Waqar Z(7), Wei 
L(9), Willsey AJ(3), Yamrom B(1), Lee YH(1), Grabowska E(10), Dalkic E(11), Wang 
Z(1), Marks S(1), Andrews P(1), Leotta A(1), Kendall J(1), Hakker I(1), 
Rosenbaum J(1), Ma B(1), Rodgers L(1), Troge J(1), Narzisi G(10), Yoon S(1), 
Schatz MC(1), Ye K(12), McCombie WR(1), Shendure J(4), Eichler EE(13), State 
MW(14), Wigler M(1).

Author information:
(1)Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Cold Spring Harbor, New York 11724, USA.
(2)1] Department of Genome Sciences, University of Washington School of 
Medicine, Seattle, Washington 98195, USA [2] Molecular &Medical Genetics, Oregon 
Health &Science University, Portland, Oregon 97208, USA.
(3)1] Department of Psychiatry, University of California, San Francisco, San 
Francisco, California 94158, USA [2] Department of Genetics, Yale University 
School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA.
(4)Department of Genome Sciences, University of Washington School of Medicine, 
Seattle, Washington 98195, USA.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, University of California, San Francisco, San 
Francisco, California 94158, USA.
(6)1] Department of Genetics, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, 
Connecticut 06520, USA [2] Center for Bioinformatics, State Key Laboratory of 
Protein and Plant Gene Research, School of Life Sciences, Peking University, 
Beijing 100871, China.
(7)Child Study Center, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, 
Connecticut 06520, USA.
(8)Yale Center for Genomic Analysis, Yale University School of Medicine, New 
Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA.
(9)1] Center for Bioinformatics, State Key Laboratory of Protein and Plant Gene 
Research, School of Life Sciences, Peking University, Beijing 100871, China [2] 
National Institute of Biological Sciences, Beijing 102206, China.
(10)1] Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Cold Spring Harbor, New York 11724, USA 
[2] New York Genome Center, New York, New York 10013, USA.
(11)1] Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Cold Spring Harbor, New York 11724, USA 
[2] Department of Medical Biology, Bulent Ecevit University School of Medicine, 
67600 Zonguldak, Turkey.
(12)Department of Epidemiology and Population Health, Albert Einstein College of 
Medicine, Bronx, New York 10461, USA.
(13)1] Department of Genome Sciences, University of Washington School of 
Medicine, Seattle, Washington 98195, USA [2] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, 
Seattle, Washington 98195, USA.
(14)1] Department of Psychiatry, University of California, San Francisco, San 
Francisco, California 94158, USA [2] Department of Genetics, Yale University 
School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA [3] Child Study Center, 
Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA [4] 
Department of Psychiatry, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, 
Connecticut 06520, USA.

Comment in
    Clin Genet. 2015 May;87(5):428-9.
    J Genet. 2016 Sep;95(3):481-3.

Whole exome sequencing has proven to be a powerful tool for understanding the 
genetic architecture of human disease. Here we apply it to more than 2,500 
simplex families, each having a child with an autistic spectrum disorder. By 
comparing affected to unaffected siblings, we show that 13% of de novo missense 
mutations and 43% of de novo likely gene-disrupting (LGD) mutations contribute 
to 12% and 9% of diagnoses, respectively. Including copy number variants, coding 
de novo mutations contribute to about 30% of all simplex and 45% of female 
diagnoses. Almost all LGD mutations occur opposite wild-type alleles. LGD 
targets in affected females significantly overlap the targets in males of lower 
intelligence quotient (IQ), but neither overlaps significantly with targets in 
males of higher IQ. We estimate that LGD mutation in about 400 genes can 
contribute to the joint class of affected females and males of lower IQ, with an 
overlapping and similar number of genes vulnerable to contributory missense 
mutation. LGD targets in the joint class overlap with published targets for 
intellectual disability and schizophrenia, and are enriched for chromatin 
modifiers, FMRP-associated genes and embryonically expressed genes. Most of the 
significance for the latter comes from affected females.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13908
PMCID: PMC4313871
PMID: 25363768 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1430. J Am Acad Audiol. 2014 Jul-Aug;25(7):676-87; quiz 706-7. doi: 
10.3766/jaaa.25.7.6.

Attend to this: the relationship between auditory processing disorders and 
attention deficits.

Gyldenkærne P(1), Dillon H(2), Sharma M(1), Purdy SC(3).

Author information:
(1)HEARing CRC, New South Wales, Australia; Macquarie University, Sydney, 
Australia.
(2)HEARing CRC, New South Wales, Australia; National Acoustic Laboratories, New 
South Wales, Australia.
(3)University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand.

BACKGROUND: Children clinically diagnosed with auditory processing disorders 
(APDs) are often described as easily distracted and inattentive, leading some 
researchers to propose that APDs might be a consequence of underlying attention 
difficulties or a subtype of attention disorders.
PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to investigate the link between AP and 
attention by determining the relationship between performance on an auditory and 
visual sustained attention task and performance on a common APD test battery.
RESEARCH DESIGN: This study was a cross-sectional correlation study of 
school-aged children.
STUDY SAMPLE: Participants were a clinical group of 101 children considered by 
their parents or teachers to have listening difficulties, and a control group of 
18 children with no suspected listening difficulties. All children were 7-12 yr 
old.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: All children passed a standard peripheral 
audiologic assessment and were assessed using a clinical APD test battery and 
reading accuracy, nonverbal intelligence, and visual and auditory continuous 
performance tests.
RESULTS: There were significant correlations within the APD test scores except 
for masking level difference values, which did not correlate significantly with 
any other measure. Dichotic Digit and Frequency Pattern scores also correlated 
significantly with Nonverbal Intelligence and Sustained Auditory and Visual 
Attention scores. Within the clinical group, there were twice as many children 
outside normal limits on both the APD test battery and the attention tests as 
there were children who were outside normal limits on only the APD test battery 
or only the attention tests. Significant predictors of reading ability were the 
Frequency Pattern, Gaps In Noise, and Nonverbal Intelligence scores.
CONCLUSIONS: The degree of correlation between the APD and attention measures 
indicates that although deficits in both AP and sustained attention co-occur in 
some children (more than would be expected from chance alone), and the two 
conditions may have similar symptoms, they are separate, largely independent 
conditions.

American Academy of Audiology.

DOI: 10.3766/jaaa.25.7.6
PMID: 25365370


1431. Neuropsychology. 2015 May;29(3):382-387. doi: 10.1037/neu0000147. Epub 2014 Nov 
3.

Association of the apolipoprotein E genotype with memory performance and 
executive functioning in cognitively intact elderly.

Luck T(1), Then FS(1), Luppa M(2), Schroeter ML(3), Arélin K(3), Burkhardt R(4), 
Thiery J(4), Löffler M(5), Villringer A(6), Riedel-Heller SG(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Social Medicine, Occupational Health and Public Health and LIFE 
- Leipzig Research Center for Civilization Diseases, University of Leipzig.
(2)Institute of Social Medicine, Occupational Health and Public Health, 
University of Leipzig.
(3)University of Leipzig.
(4)Institute of Laboratory Medicine, Clinical Chemistry and Molecular 
Diagnostics, University Hospital Leipzig.
(5)Institute for Medical Informatics, Statistics and Epidemiology, University of 
Leipzig.
(6)Max Planck Institute for Human Cognitive and Brain Sciences.

OBJECTIVE: To test for a possible effect of the apolipoprotein E epsilon 4 (APOE 
ε4) allele on memory performance and executive functioning (EF) in cognitively 
intact elderly.
METHOD: The authors studied 202 randomly selected and cognitively intact older 
adults (65+ years) of the Leipzig Research Center for Civilization Diseases 
Health Care Study. Intact global cognitive functioning was defined using a 
Mini-Mental Status Examination (MMSE) score ≥ 28. Performance in memory was 
assessed with the CERAD Word List and Constructional Praxis Recall, performance 
in EF with the Trail Making Test Part B (TMT-B). Multivariable linear 
regressions were used to evaluate the association between cognitive performance 
and APOE status, controlled for covariates.
RESULTS: Among the cognitively intact older adults, 21.3% (n = 43) were carriers 
of the APOE ε4 allele. Carriers did not differ significantly from noncarriers in 
terms of age, gender, intelligence level, or performance in memory but showed a 
significantly lower TMT-B performance as a measure of EF (TMT-B M time/SD = 
105.6/36.2 vs. 91.9/32.7 s; Mann-Whitney U = 4,313.000; p = .009). The 
association between lower TMT-B performance and APOE ε4 genotype remained 
significant in multivariable linear regression analysis. Similar findings were 
found for the subsample of those 78 elderly, who reached a perfect MMSE-score of 
30.
CONCLUSIONS: A lower EF performance in cognitively intact older APOE ε4 allele 
carriers might be related to an early Alzheimer's dementia (AD) prodrome. In 
this case, a stronger focus on first subtle changes in EF may help to improve 
early AD detection in those being at genetic risk.

(c) 2015 APA, all rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/neu0000147
PMID: 25365563 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1432. Psychol Addict Behav. 2015 Mar;29(1):237-46. doi: 10.1037/adb0000027. Epub 2014 
Nov 3.

Topiramate impairs cognitive function in methadone-maintained individuals with 
concurrent cocaine dependence.

Rass O(1), Umbricht A(1), Bigelow GE(1), Strain EC(1), Johnson MW(1), Mintzer 
MZ(1).

Author information:
(1)Behavioral Pharmacology Research Unit, Department of Psychiatry and 
Behavioral Sciences, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine.

Topiramate is being investigated as a potential pharmacotherapy for the 
treatment of addictive disorders. However, its cognitive side effects raise 
concerns about its use, especially in populations with cognitive impairment, 
such as persons with chronic substance use disorders. This study investigated 
topiramate's cognitive effects in individuals dually dependent on cocaine and 
opioids as part of a double-blind, randomized, controlled trial of topiramate 
for cocaine dependence treatment. After 5 weeks of stabilization on daily oral 
methadone (M = 96 mg), participants were randomized to topiramate (n = 18) or 
placebo (n = 22). Cognitive testing took place at 2 time points: study weeks 4 
through 5 to assess baseline performance and 10 to 13 weeks later to assess 
performance during stable dosing (300 mg topiramate or placebo). All 
participants were maintained on methadone at both testing times, and testing 
occurred 2 hours after the daily methadone plus topiramate/placebo 
administration. The topiramate and placebo groups did not differ on sex, level 
of education, premorbid intelligence, methadone dose, or illicit drug use. 
Topiramate slowed psychomotor and information processing speed, worsened divided 
attention, reduced n-back working memory accuracy, and increased the false alarm 
rate in recognition memory. Topiramate had no effects on visual processing, 
other measures of psychomotor function, risk-taking, self-control, Sternberg 
working memory, free recall, and metamemory. These findings indicate that 
topiramate may cause cognitive impairment in this population. This effect may 
limit its acceptability and use as a treatment in individuals with chronic 
opioid and cocaine use disorders, among whom preexisting cognitive impairments 
are common. (PsycINFO Database Record

(c) 2015 APA, all rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/adb0000027
PMCID: PMC4388752
PMID: 25365653 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest 
relevant to the present work to disclose.


1433. Brain Behav. 2014;4(6):801-11. doi: 10.1002/brb3.278. Epub 2014 Oct 17.

Correlations between brain structures and study time at home in healthy 
children: a longitudinal analysis.

Asano M(1), Taki Y(2), Hashizume H(1), Takeuchi H(1), Thyreau B(3), Sassa Y(1), 
Asano K(1), Kawashima R(4).

Author information:
(1)Division of Developmental Cognitive Neuroscience, Institute of Development, 
Aging and Cancer, Tohoku University Sendai, Japan.
(2)Division of Developmental Cognitive Neuroscience, Institute of Development, 
Aging and Cancer, Tohoku University Sendai, Japan ; Department of Nuclear 
Medicine & Radiology, Institute of Development, Aging and Cancer, Tohoku 
University Sendai, Japan ; Division of Medical Neuroimaging Analysis, Department 
of Community Medical Supports, Tohoku Medical Megabank Organization, Tohoku 
University Sendai, Japan.
(3)Division of Developmental Cognitive Neuroscience, Institute of Development, 
Aging and Cancer, Tohoku University Sendai, Japan ; Division of Medical 
Neuroimaging Analysis, Department of Community Medical Supports, Tohoku Medical 
Megabank Organization, Tohoku University Sendai, Japan.
(4)Division of Developmental Cognitive Neuroscience, Institute of Development, 
Aging and Cancer, Tohoku University Sendai, Japan ; Smart Ageing International 
Research Centre, Institute of Development, Aging and Cancer, Tohoku University 
Sendai, Japan ; Department of Functional Brain Imaging, Institute of 
Development, Aging and Cancer, Tohoku University Sendai, Japan.

INTRODUCTION: Like sleeping and eating habits, the study habits adopted by 
children when they are at home are important contributors to lifestyle and they 
affect cognitive ability. It has recently been reported that sleeping and eating 
habits change the brain structure of children. However, no research on the 
effect of study habits at home on the brain structure of children has been 
conducted thus far. We investigated the effects of study habits at home on the 
brain structures of healthy children by examining correlations between study 
time at home and changes in brain structure over the course of 3 years.
METHODS: We used the brain magnetic resonance images of 229 healthy children 
aged 5.6-18.4 years and computed the changes (time 2-time 1) in regional gray 
matter and white matter volume (rWMV) using voxel-based morphometry. Whole-brain 
multiple regression analysis revealed a significant positive correlation between 
study time at home and changes in rWMV in the right superior frontal gyrus 
(SFG). Behaviorally, we found a significant positive correlation between study 
time at home and change in the verbal comprehension index (VCI), one of the 
subscales of the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children-third edition 
(WISC-III).
RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: Given that the SFG is involved in memory control and 
that the VCI measures abilities related to vocabulary, our results indicate that 
greater SFG involvement in the memorization component of longer study times may 
result in greater increases in the number of axons and more axon branching and 
myelination, causing plastic changes in the neural network involved in memory 
processes.

DOI: 10.1002/brb3.278
PMCID: PMC4212108
PMID: 25365804 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1434. Pediatrics. 2014 Dec;134(6):1111-8. doi: 10.1542/peds.2014-0886. Epub 2014 Nov 
3.

Early developmental outcomes of children with congenital HHV-6 infection.

Caserta MT(1), Hall CB(2), Canfield RL(3), Davidson P(4), Lofthus G(5), Schnabel 
K(6), Carnahan J(6), Shelley L(6), Wang H(7).

Author information:
(1)Departments of Pediatrics, mary_caserta@urmc.rochester.edu.
(2)Departments of Pediatrics, Medicine.
(3)Division of Nutritional Sciences, Cornell University, Ithaca, New York.
(4)Behavioral Pediatrics and Developmental Disabilities, and.
(5)Medicine.
(6)Departments of Pediatrics.
(7)Biostatistics and Computational Biology, University of Rochester Medical 
Center, Rochester, New York; and.

OBJECTIVE: The goal of this study was to determine if congenital human 
herpesvirus-6 (HHV-6) infection influences early neurodevelopment.
METHODS: We enrolled 57 newborns with HHV-6 congenital infection and 242 control 
newborns without congenital infection into a prospective, double-blind study 
with 4 visits between 4 and 30 months of age. Assessments included the Fagan 
Test of Infant Intelligence, the Visual Expectation Paradigm, and the Mental 
Development Index (MDI) of the Bayley Scales of Infant Development II. Newborn 
audiology screening and follow-up audiology examinations were completed at 12 to 
24 months.
RESULTS: No differences were noted in baseline characteristics between infants 
with HHV-6 congenital infection and control infants. No clinical syndrome due to 
congenital infection with HHV-6 was evident at birth. No differences were 
identified on the Fagan Test of Infant Intelligence or the Visual Expectation 
Paradigm between the two groups. In 39 infants with HHV-6 congenital infection, 
the mean ± SD Bayley Scale of Infant Development II MDI score was 103.4 ± 8.9 at 
12 months of age. The matched control infants had a mean score of 105.4 ± 12.4. 
After controlling for covariates, HHV-6 congenital infection was associated with 
lower scores on the Bayley Scale of Infant Development II MDI at 12 months of 
age (mean difference: 4.3 [95% confidence interval: 0.4 to 8.1]; P = .03) 
compared with infants without HHV-6 congenital infection.
CONCLUSIONS: Congenital HHV-6 infection may have a detrimental effect on 
neurodevelopment at 12 months of age and requires further study given that 
congenital infection with HHV-6 is present in ∼1 in every 101 births.

Copyright © 2014 by the American Academy of Pediatrics.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.2014-0886
PMCID: PMC4243068
PMID: 25367540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1435. J Dev Behav Pediatr. 2014 Nov-Dec;35(9):570-5. doi: 
10.1097/DBP.0000000000000110.

Predictive validity of the Bayley, Third Edition at 2 years for intelligence 
quotient at 4 years in preterm infants.

Bode MM(1), DʼEugenio DB, Mettelman BB, Gross SJ.

Author information:
(1)*Department of Pediatrics, Upstate Medical Center, SUNY, Syracuse, NY; 
†Department of Neonatology, Crouse Hospital, Syracuse, NY.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the predictive validity of the Bayley Scales of Infant 
and Toddler Development, Third Edition (Bayley-III) at age 2 years for cognitive 
abilities in preschool children born at ≤ 30 weeks' gestation.
METHODS: This prospective regional study included all 187 liveborn infants ≤ 30 
weeks' gestation born between July 2005 and June 2006. Of the 172 children who 
survived to 4 years, 156 (91%) were evaluated at 2 and 4 years. A 
socioeconomically matched term control group also was recruited to provide 
normative data. The predictive validity of the Bayley-III cognitive and language 
scales for the Weschler Preschool and Primary Scale of Intelligence-III 
(WPPSI-III) was examined through correlation coefficients and sensitivity and 
specificity of the Bayley-III to predict normal and abnormal cognitive outcomes.
RESULTS: Correlations of the WPPSI-III intelligence quotient (IQ) score with the 
Bayley-III cognitive and language scores were .81 and .78, respectively. The 
preterm children were classified as normal (Bayley Scales of Infant 
Development-Third Edition [BSID-III] cognitive score or WPPSI-III IQ score not 
lower than 1 SD below the control group mean), mild to moderately delayed 
(scores between 1 and 2 SD deviations below the control group mean), or severely 
delayed (scores greater than 2 SD below the control group mean). At 2 and 4 
years, 126 (81%) preterm children retained the same developmental 
classification.
CONCLUSIONS: In contrast with previous editions of the BSID, the Bayley-III has 
strong predictive validity for WPPSI-III IQ at age 4 years in preterm children. 
This has important implications for more timely evaluation of perinatal 
interventions, establishment of guidelines for neonatal care, and counseling 
parents.

DOI: 10.1097/DBP.0000000000000110
PMID: 25370298 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1436. Expert Rev Clin Immunol. 2014 Dec;10(12):1559-61. doi: 
10.1586/1744666X.2014.978761. Epub 2014 Nov 5.

Novel in silico technology in combination with microarrays: a state-of-the-art 
technology for allergy diagnosis and management?

Melioli G(1), Passalacqua G, Canonica GW.

Author information:
(1)Allergy and Respiratory Diseases, Department of Internal Medicine, IRCCS 
S.Martino-IST-University of Genoa, Largo Rosanna Benzi 10,16132, Genova, Italy.

'Allergen microarrays, in poly-sensitized allergic patients, represent a real 
value added in the accurate IgE profiling and in the identification of 
allergen(s) to administer for an effective allergen immunotherapy.' Allergen 
microarrays (AMA) were developed in the early 2000s to improve the diagnostic 
pathway of patients with allergic reactions. Nowadays, AMA are constituted by 
more than 100 different components (either purified or recombinant), 
representing genuine and cross-reacting molecules from plants and animals. The 
cost of the procedure had suggested its use as third-level diagnostics 
(following in vivo- and in vitro-specific IgE tests) in poly-sensitized 
patients. The complexity of the interpretation had inspired the development of 
in silico technologies to help clinicians in their work. Both machine learning 
techniques and expert systems are now available. In particular, an expert system 
that has been recently developed not only identifies positive and negative 
components but also lists dangerous components and classifies patients based on 
their potential responsiveness to allergen immunotherapy, on the basis of 
published algorithms. For these characteristics, AMA represents the 
state-of-the-art technology for allergy diagnosis in poly-sensitized patients.

DOI: 10.1586/1744666X.2014.978761
PMID: 25370475 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1437. Neurol Sci. 2015 Apr;36(4):571-6. doi: 10.1007/s10072-014-1990-3. Epub 2014 Nov 
5.

MCP-1 and CCR2 gene polymorphisms in Parkinson's disease in a Han Chinese 
cohort.

Gao L(1), Tang H, Nie K, Wang L, Zhao J, Gan R, Huang J, Feng S, Zhu R, Duan Z, 
Zhang Y, Zhao X, Zhang Y, Wang L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Guangdong Neuroscience Institute, Guangdong General 
Hospital, Guangdong Academy of Medical Sciences, 106 Zhongshan Rd II, Guangzhou, 
510080, Guangdong Province, People's Republic of China, gaoliang0123@sina.com.

Monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1) and its receptor CC chemokine 
receptor-2 (CCR2) play important roles in neuroinflammation and they have been 
shown to be involved in Parkinson's disease (PD) pathogenesis. In addition, 
several studies have suggested a role for the MCP-1 and CCR2 genotypes in 
cognitive impairment and depression, which are common non-motor symptoms in PD 
patients. In this study, a cohort of 521 PD patients and 556 cases of healthy 
controls were recruited to investigate the association between the MCP-1 2518A/G 
(rs1064211) and CCR2 V64I (rs1799864) gene polymorphisms and PD risk in the 
Chinese population. We also analyze the influence of these genotypes on the 
cognitive function and depression in PD patients by comparing Mini-Mental State 
Examination (MMSE), Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA), Wechsler Adult 
Intelligence Scale-Chinese Revision (WAIS-RC), Wechsler Memory Scale-Chinese 
Revision (WMS-RC) and Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAMD) ratings in 217 PD 
patients. Our results showed no significant differences in the genotype 
frequency between the PD group and the control group (P > 0.05). In addition, we 
also failed to find an influence of the MCP-1 and CCR2 genotypes on MMSE scores, 
MoCA scores, WAIS-RC scores, WMS-RC scores and HAMD scores in PD patients (P > 
0.05). The MCP-1 and CCR2 gene polymorphisms may not be genetic risk factors for 
PD in the Han Chinese population, and they do not appear to influence cognitive 
function and depression in PD patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s10072-014-1990-3
PMID: 25370917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1438. Comput Intell Neurosci. 2014;2014:354703. doi: 10.1155/2014/354703. Epub 2014 
Oct 13.

Hypergraph-based recognition memory model for lifelong experience.

Kim H(1), Park JH(1).

Author information:
(1)Korea Institute of Science and Technology, Korea University of Science and 
Technology, Hwarang-ro 14-gil 5, Seongbuk-gu, Seoul 136-791, Republic of Korea.

Cognitive agents are expected to interact with and adapt to a nonstationary 
dynamic environment. As an initial process of decision making in a real-world 
agent interaction, familiarity judgment leads the following processes for 
intelligence. Familiarity judgment includes knowing previously encoded data as 
well as completing original patterns from partial information, which are 
fundamental functions of recognition memory. Although previous computational 
memory models have attempted to reflect human behavioral properties on the 
recognition memory, they have been focused on static conditions without 
considering temporal changes in terms of lifelong learning. To provide temporal 
adaptability to an agent, in this paper, we suggest a computational model for 
recognition memory that enables lifelong learning. The proposed model is based 
on a hypergraph structure, and thus it allows a high-order relationship between 
contextual nodes and enables incremental learning. Through a simulated 
experiment, we investigate the optimal conditions of the memory model and 
validate the consistency of memory performance for lifelong learning.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/354703
PMCID: PMC4211314
PMID: 25371665 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1439. J Acoust Soc Am. 2014 Nov;136(5):2861-75. doi: 10.1121/1.4896518.

Vocal repertoire of the social giant otter.

Leuchtenberger C(1), Sousa-Lima R(2), Duplaix N(3), Magnusson WE(4), Mourão 
G(1).

Author information:
(1)Wildlife Laboratory, Embrapa Pantanal, Corumbá, Mato Grosso do Sul, Brazil.
(2)Laboratory of Bioacoustics, Department of Physiology, Federal University of 
Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, Rio Grande do Norte, Brazil.
(3)Fisheries and Wildlife Department, Oregon State University, Corvallis, Oregon 
97331-3803.
(4)Instituto Nacional de Pesquisas da Amazônia-INPA, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil.

According to the "social intelligence hypothesis," species with complex social 
interactions have more sophisticated communication systems. Giant otters 
(Pteronura brasiliensis) live in groups with complex social interactions. It is 
likely that the vocal communication of giant otters is more sophisticated than 
previous studies suggest. The objectives of the current study were to describe 
the airborne vocal repertoire of giant otters in the Pantanal area of Brazil, to 
analyze call types within different behavioral contexts, and to correlate vocal 
complexity with level of sociability of mustelids to verify whether or not the 
result supports the social intelligence hypothesis. The behavior of nine giant 
otters groups was observed. Vocalizations recorded were acoustically and 
statistically analyzed to describe the species' repertoire. The repertoire was 
comprised by 15 sound types emitted in different behavioral contexts. The main 
behavioral contexts of each sound type were significantly associated with the 
acoustic variable ordination of different sound types. A strong correlation 
between vocal complexity and sociability was found for different species, 
suggesting that the communication systems observed in the family mustelidae 
support the social intelligence hypothesis.

DOI: 10.1121/1.4896518
PMID: 25373985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1440. Cancer Inform. 2014 Oct 31;13:119-24. doi: 10.4137/CIN.S17948. eCollection 2014.

Classification of images acquired with colposcopy using artificial neural 
networks.

Simões PW(1), Izumi NB(1), Casagrande RS(2), Venson R(2), Veronezi CD(1), 
Moretti GP(2), da Rocha EL(3), Cechinel C(4), Ceretta LB(5), Comunello E(6), 
Martins PJ(2), Casagrande RA(2), Snoeyer ML(7), Manenti SA(1).

Author information:
(1)Curso de Medicina, Universidade do Extremo Sul Catarinense (UNESC), Criciúma, 
Brazil. ; Research Group of Tecnologia da Informação e Comunicação na Saúde, 
Universidade do Extremo Sul Catarinense (UNESC), Criciúma, Brazil.
(2)Research Group of Tecnologia da Informação e Comunicação na Saúde, 
Universidade do Extremo Sul Catarinense (UNESC), Criciúma, Brazil.
(3)Graduate Program in Materials Science and Engineering, Federal University of 
Santa Catarina, Florianópolis, Brazil.
(4)Faculdade de Educação, Universidade federal de Pelotas, Brazil.
(5)Research Group of Gestão do Cuidado, Integralidade e Educação na Saúde, 
Laboratory of Direito Sanitário e Saúde Coletiva, Universidade do Extremo Sul 
Catarinense (UNESC), Criciúma, Brazil.
(6)INCoD - National Institute for Digital Convergence, Universidade Federal de 
Santa Catarina (UFSC), Florianópolis, Brazil.
(7)Curso de Medicina, Universidade do Extremo Sul Catarinense (UNESC), Criciúma, 
Brazil.

OBJECTIVE: To explore the advantages of using artificial neural networks (ANNs) 
to recognize patterns in colposcopy to classify images in colposcopy.
PURPOSE: Transversal, descriptive, and analytical study of a quantitative 
approach with an emphasis on diagnosis. The training test e validation set was 
composed of images collected from patients who underwent colposcopy. These 
images were provided by a gynecology clinic located in the city of Criciúma 
(Brazil). The image database (n = 170) was divided; 48 images were used for the 
training process, 58 images were used for the tests, and 64 images were used for 
the validation. A hybrid neural network based on Kohonen self-organizing maps 
and multilayer perceptron (MLP) networks was used.
RESULTS: After 126 cycles, the validation was performed. The best results 
reached an accuracy of 72.15%, a sensibility of 69.78%, and a specificity of 
68%.
CONCLUSION: Although the preliminary results still exhibit an average 
efficiency, the present approach is an innovative and promising technique that 
should be deeply explored in the context of the present study.

DOI: 10.4137/CIN.S17948
PMCID: PMC4213185
PMID: 25374454


1441. Front Hum Neurosci. 2014 Oct 21;8:850. doi: 10.3389/fnhum.2014.00850. 
eCollection 2014.

Emotion recognition and cognitive empathy deficits in adolescent offenders 
revealed by context-sensitive tasks.

Gonzalez-Gadea ML(1), Herrera E(2), Parra M(3), Gomez Mendez P(4), Baez S(1), 
Manes F(5), Ibanez A(6).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Experimental Psychology and Neuroscience, Institute of 
Cognitive Neurology Buenos Aires, Argentina ; National Scientific and Technical 
Research Council Buenos Aires, Argentina ; UDP-INECO Foundation Core on 
Neuroscience, Diego Portales University Santiago, Chile.
(2)Laboratory of Experimental Psychology and Neuroscience, Institute of 
Cognitive Neurology Buenos Aires, Argentina ; National Scientific and Technical 
Research Council Buenos Aires, Argentina ; Universidad Autonoma del Caribe 
Barranquilla, Colombia.
(3)UDP-INECO Foundation Core on Neuroscience, Diego Portales University 
Santiago, Chile ; Human Cognitive Neuroscience, Psychology Department, 
University of Edinburgh Edinburgh, UK ; Scottish Dementia Clinical Research 
Network Perth, UK ; Neuropsy and Biomedical Unit, Health School, University 
Surcolombiana Neiva, Colombia.
(4)Universidad del Norte Barranquilla, Colombia.
(5)Laboratory of Experimental Psychology and Neuroscience, Institute of 
Cognitive Neurology Buenos Aires, Argentina ; National Scientific and Technical 
Research Council Buenos Aires, Argentina ; UDP-INECO Foundation Core on 
Neuroscience, Diego Portales University Santiago, Chile ; Centre of Excellence 
in Cognition and its Disorders, Australian Research Council Sydney, NSW, 
Australia.
(6)Laboratory of Experimental Psychology and Neuroscience, Institute of 
Cognitive Neurology Buenos Aires, Argentina ; National Scientific and Technical 
Research Council Buenos Aires, Argentina ; UDP-INECO Foundation Core on 
Neuroscience, Diego Portales University Santiago, Chile ; Universidad Autonoma 
del Caribe Barranquilla, Colombia ; Centre of Excellence in Cognition and its 
Disorders, Australian Research Council Sydney, NSW, Australia.

Emotion recognition and empathy abilities require the integration of contextual 
information in real-life scenarios. Previous reports have explored these domains 
in adolescent offenders (AOs) but have not used tasks that replicate everyday 
situations. In this study we included ecological measures with different levels 
of contextual dependence to evaluate emotion recognition and empathy in AOs 
relative to non-offenders, controlling for the effect of demographic variables. 
We also explored the influence of fluid intelligence (FI) and executive 
functions (EFs) in the prediction of relevant deficits in these domains. Our 
results showed that AOs exhibit deficits in context-sensitive measures of 
emotion recognition and cognitive empathy. Difficulties in these tasks were 
neither explained by demographic variables nor predicted by FI or EFs. However, 
performance on measures that included simpler stimuli or could be solved by 
explicit knowledge was either only partially affected by demographic variables 
or preserved in AOs. These findings indicate that AOs show contextual 
social-cognition impairments which are relatively independent of basic cognitive 
functioning and demographic variables.

DOI: 10.3389/fnhum.2014.00850
PMCID: PMC4204464
PMID: 25374529


1442. Front Aging Neurosci. 2014 Oct 21;6:249. doi: 10.3389/fnagi.2014.00249. 
eCollection 2014.

Cognition and gait show a selective pattern of association dominated by 
phenotype in incident Parkinson's disease.

Lord S(1), Galna B(1), Coleman S(2), Yarnall A(1), Burn D(1), Rochester L(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Neuroscience, Newcastle University , Newcastle upon Tyne , UK.
(2)UK and Industrial Statistics Research Unit, Newcastle University , Newcastle 
upon Tyne , UK.

Reports outlining the association between gait and cognition in Parkinson's 
disease (PD) are limited because of methodological issues and a bias toward 
studying advanced disease. This study examines the association between gait and 
cognition in 121 early PD who were characterized according to motor phenotype, 
and 184 healthy older adults. Quantitative gait was captured using a 7 m 
GAITrite walkway while walking for 2 min under single-task conditions and 
described by five domains (pace, rhythm, variability, asymmetry, and postural 
control). Cognitive outcomes were summarized by six domains (attention, working 
memory, visual memory, executive function, visuospatial function, and global 
cognition). Partial correlations and multivariate linear regression were used to 
determine independent associations for all participants and for PD 
tremor-dominant (TD) and postural instability and gait disorder (PIGD) 
phenotypes, controlling for age, sex, and premorbid intelligence using the 
national adult reading test. Cognitive and gait outcomes were significantly 
worse for PD. Gait, but not cognitive outcomes, was selectively worse for the 
PIGD phenotype compared with TD. Significant associations emerged for two gait 
domains for controls (pace and postural control) and four gait domains for PD 
(pace, rhythm, variability, and postural control). The strongest correlation was 
for pace and attention for PD and controls. Associations were not significant 
for participants with the TD phenotype. In early PD, the cognitive correlates of 
gait are predominantly with fronto-executive functions, and are characterized by 
the PIGD PD phenotype. These associations provide a basis for understanding the 
complex role of cognition in parkinsonian gait.

DOI: 10.3389/fnagi.2014.00249
PMCID: PMC4205301
PMID: 25374538


1443. Front Psychol. 2014 Oct 21;5:1177. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.01177. eCollection 
2014.

TVA-based assessment of attentional capacities-associations with age and indices 
of brain white matter microstructure.

Espeseth T(1), Vangkilde SA(2), Petersen A(2), Dyrholm M(2), Westlye LT(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Oslo Oslo, Norway ; Norwegian Centre 
for Mental Disorders Research (NORMENT), and KG Jebsen Centre for Psychosis 
Research, Division of Mental Health and Addiction, Oslo University Hospital 
Oslo, Norway.
(2)Department of Psychology, Center for Visual Cognition, University of 
Copenhagen Copenhagen, Denmark.

In this study the primary aims were to characterize the effects of age on basic 
components of visual attention derived from assessments based on a theory of 
visual attention (TVA) in 325 healthy volunteers covering the adult lifespan 
(19-81 years). Furthermore, we aimed to investigate how age-related differences 
on TVA parameters are associated with white matter (WM) microstructure as 
indexed by diffusion tensor imaging (DTI). Finally, we explored how TVA 
parameter estimates were associated with complex, or multicomponent indices of 
processing speed (Digit-symbol substitution, DSS) and fluid intelligence (gF). 
The results indicated that the TVA parameters for visual short-term memory 
capacity, K, and for attentional selectivity, α, were most strongly associated 
with age before the age of 50. However, in this age range, it was the parameter 
for processing speed, C, that was most clearly associated with DTI indices, in 
this case fractional anisotropy (FA), particularly in the genu and body of the 
corpus callosum. Furthermore, differences in the C parameter partially mediated 
differences in DSS within this age range. After the age of 50, the TVA parameter 
for the perceptual threshold, t 0, as well as K, were most strongly related to 
participant age. Both parameters, but t 0 more strongly so than K, were 
associated WM diffusivity, particularly in projection fibers such as the 
internal capsule, the sagittal stratum, and the corona radiata. Within this age 
range, t 0 partially mediated age-related differences in gF. The results are 
consistent with, and provide novel empirical support for the neuroanatomical 
localization of TVA computations as outlined in the neuronal interpretation of 
TVA (NTVA). Furthermore, the results indicate that to understand the biological 
sources of age-related changes in processing speed and fluid cognition, it may 
be useful to employ methods that allow for computational fractionation of these 
multicomponent measures.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.01177
PMCID: PMC4204453
PMID: 25374549


1444. Euro Surveill. 2014 Oct 30;19(43):20941. doi: 
10.2807/1560-7917.es2014.19.43.20941.

Three simultaneous, food-borne, multi-country outbreaks of hepatitis A virus 
infection reported in EPIS-FWD in 2013: what does it mean for the European 
Union?

Gossner CM(1), Severi E.

Author information:
(1)European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, Stockholm, Sweden.

Between March and May 2013, three multi-country outbreaks of hepatitis A virus 
(HAV) infection were reported through the Epidemic Intelligence Information 
System for Food- and Water-borne diseases (EPIS-FWD) of the European Centre for 
Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC). The aim of this work is to put these 
outbreaks into a European Union (EU) and European Economic Area (EEA) 
perspective and highlight opportunities for improving detection and 
investigation of such outbreaks. Although HAV outbreaks are not unusual in the 
EU/EEA, having three large food-borne multi-country outbreaks declared within 
three months is an unexpected event, particularly when at least two of these 
outbreaks are associated with frozen berries. Factors influencing the occurrence 
of these events include the increased number of susceptible Europeans, the 
limited coverage of HAV vaccination, the global trade of potentially 
contaminated products introduced in the EU/EEA, and the 'awareness chain effect' 
leading to a wave of notifications. Further studies should be conducted to 
understand the risk posed by frozen berries. Laboratory capacity and 
surveillance of viral infections in the EU/EEA, as well as HAV vaccination 
recommendations to travellers to endemic countries should be strengthened. 
Finally, timely reporting food-borne events through EPIS-FWD, to ensure timely 
response.

DOI: 10.2807/1560-7917.es2014.19.43.20941
PMID: 25375903 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1445. Evol Psychol. 2014 Nov 6;12(5):958-78.

Do orgasms give women feedback about mate choice?

Gallup GG Jr(1), Ampel BC(2), Wedberg N(1), Pogosjan A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University at Albany, State University of New York, 
Albany, NY, USA..
(2)Department of Psychology, University at Albany, State University of New York, 
Albany, NY, USA.

The current study represents a preliminary investigation of the extent to which 
female orgasm functions to promote good mate choices. Based on a survey of 
heterosexual female college students in committed relationships, how often women 
experienced orgasm as a result of sexual intercourse was related to their 
partner's family income, his self-confidence, and how attractive he was. Orgasm 
intensity was also related to how attracted they were to their partners, how 
many times they had sex per week, and ratings of sexual satisfaction. Those with 
partners who their friends rated as more attractive also tended to have more 
intense orgasms. Orgasm frequency was highly correlated (r = .82) with orgasm 
intensity, and orgasm intensity was a marginally better predictor of sexual 
satisfaction than orgasm frequency. Sexual satisfaction was related to how 
physically attracted women were to their partner and the breadth of his 
shoulders. Women who began having sexual intercourse at earlier ages had more 
sex partners, experienced more orgasms, and were more sexually satisfied with 
their partners. We also identified an ensemble of partner psychological traits 
(motivation, intelligence, focus, and determination) that predicted how often 
women initiated sexual intercourse. Their partner's sense of humor not only 
predicted his self-confidence and family income, but it also predicted women's 
propensity to initiate sex, how often they had sex, and it enhanced their orgasm 
frequency in comparison with other partners.

PMID: 25376054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1446. Cancer. 2015 Mar 1;121(5):774-82. doi: 10.1002/cncr.29121. Epub 2014 Nov 6.

Predictors of health care utilization in adult survivors of childhood cancer 
exposed to central nervous system-directed therapy.

Kimberg CI(1), Klosky JL, Zhang N, Brinkman TM, Ness KK, Srivastava DK, Robison 
LL, Hudson MM, Krull KR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Cancer Control, St. Jude Children's Research 
Hospital, Memphis, Tennessee.

BACKGROUND: Survivors of childhood cancer treated with central nervous system 
(CNS)-directed therapy may be at risk for poor health care utilization because 
of neurocognitive deficits. This study examined associations between 
neurocognitive function and adherence to routine and risk-based medical 
evaluations in adult survivors exposed to CNS-directed therapy.
METHODS: Neurocognitive function and health care utilization were assessed in 
1304 adult survivors of childhood cancer enrolled in the St. Jude Lifetime 
Cohort Study. Adherence to recommended care was defined as meeting guidelines 
published by the Children's Oncology Group. Multivariate models were used to 
evaluate associations between neurocognitive function and health screenings. 
Established predictors of health care utilization were included as covariates. 
Odds ratios (ORs) or prevalence ratios (PRs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) 
were calculated for variables maintained in the final models.
RESULTS: Adherence to recommended medical care was higher for routine care 
(general physician care, 57.6%; dental care, 49.1%) versus specialized care 
(survivor-focused care, 21.9%; echocardiogram, 19.9%). Higher intelligence was 
predictive of general physician care (OR, 1.74; 95% CI, 1.41-2.15) and 
survivor-focused care (OR, 1.44; 95% CI, 1.13-1.83) in comparison with no care, 
whereas better executive function skills were associated with reduced dental 
care (PR, 0.94; 95% CI, 0.91-0.98). Echocardiogram monitoring was not associated 
with neurocognition. Possible late effects of cancer treatment (pain and reduced 
cardiorespiratory fitness) were associated with an increased likelihood of 
receiving specialized medical care.
CONCLUSIONS: Survivors with reduced global cognition are at risk for poor health 
care utilization. Educational practices regarding recommended health care should 
be personalized to ensure comprehension by survivors with neurocognitive 
impairment.

© 2014 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.29121
PMCID: PMC4339492
PMID: 25376751 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: Nothing to disclose


1447. Arch Sex Behav. 2015 Jul;44(5):1459-70. doi: 10.1007/s10508-014-0420-1. Epub 
2014 Nov 7.

Sexual Fluidity and Related Attitudes and Beliefs Among Young Adults with a 
Same-Gender Orientation.

Katz-Wise SL(1), Hyde JS.

Author information:
(1)Division of Adolescent/Young Adult Medicine, Boston Children's Hospital, 300 
Longwood Ave., Boston, MA, 02115, USA, sabra.katz-wise@childrens.harvard.edu.

Little research has examined whether experiencing sexual fluidity--changes over 
time in attractions and sexual orientation identity--is related to specific 
cognitions. This study explored attitudes and beliefs among sexually fluid and 
non-sexually fluid individuals and developed two new measures of sexuality 
beliefs based on Diamond's sexual fluidity research and Dweck's psychological 
theory of intelligence beliefs. Participants were 188 female and male young 
adults in the United States with a same-gender orientation, ages 18-26 years. 
Participants completed an online questionnaire which assessed sexual fluidity in 
attractions and sexual orientation identity, attitudes toward bisexuality, 
sexuality beliefs, and demographics. Sexual fluidity in attractions was reported 
by 63 % of females and 50 % of males, with 48 % of those females and 34 % of 
those males reporting fluidity in sexual orientation identity. No significant 
gender differences in frequency of sexual fluidity were observed. Sexually fluid 
females had more positive attitudes toward bisexuality than non-sexually fluid 
females; however, no significant difference was observed for males. Females were 
more likely than males to endorse sexual fluidity beliefs and to believe that 
sexuality is changeable; and sexually fluid persons were more likely than 
non-sexually fluid persons to hold those two beliefs. Among males, non-sexually 
fluid individuals were more likely than sexually fluid individuals to believe 
that sexuality is something an individual is born with. Females were more likely 
than males to endorse the belief that sexuality is influenced by the 
environment. Findings from this research link sexual fluidity with specific 
cognitions.

DOI: 10.1007/s10508-014-0420-1
PMID: 25378265 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1448. Online J Public Health Inform. 2014 Oct 16;6(2):e182. doi: 
10.5210/ojphi.v6i2.5249. eCollection 2014.

Development and implementation of a clinical and business intelligence system 
for the Florida health data warehouse.

AlHazme RH(1), Rana AM(1), De Lucca M(2).

Author information:
(1)Nova Southeastern University College of Osteopathic Medicine, Fort 
Lauderdale, Florida.
(2)Broward Regional Health Planning Council, Hollywood, Florida.

OBJECTIVE: To develop and implement a Clinical and Business Intelligence (CBI) 
system for the Florida Health Data Warehouse (FHDW) in order to bridge the gap 
between Florida's healthcare stakeholders and the health data archived in FHWD.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A gap analysis study has been conducted to evaluate the 
technological divide between the relevant users and FHWD health data, which is 
maintained by the Broward Regional Health Planning Council (BRHPC). The study 
revealed a gap between the health care data and the decision makers that utilize 
the FHDW data. To bridge the gap, a CBI system was proposed, developed and 
implemented by BRHPC as a viable solution to address this issue, using the 
System Development Life Cycle methodology.
RESULTS: The CBI system was successfully implemented and yielded a number of 
positive outcomes. In addition to significantly shortening the time required to 
analyze the health data for decision-making processes, the solution also 
provided end-users with the ability to automatically track public health 
parameters.
DISCUSSION: A large amount of data is collected and stored by various health 
care organizations at the local, state, and national levels. If utilized 
properly, such data can go a long way in optimizing health care services. CBI 
systems provide health care organizations with valuable insights for improving 
patient care, tracking trends for medical research, and for controlling costs.
CONCLUSION: The CBI system has been found quite effective in bridging the gap 
between Florida's healthcare stake holders and FHDW health data. Consequently, 
the solution has improved in the planning and coordination of health care 
services for the state of Florida.

DOI: 10.5210/ojphi.v6i2.5249
PMCID: PMC4221087
PMID: 25379128


1449. Behav Sci (Basel). 2014 Sep 3;4(3):301-319. doi: 10.3390/bs4030301. eCollection 
2014 Sep.

Working memory training in schizophrenia and healthy populations.

Lawlor-Savage L(1), Goghari VM(1).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Neuroscience of Schizophrenia Laboratory, Departments of Psychology 
and Psychiatry, Hotchkiss Brain Institute, University of Calgary, Clinical 
Psychology, 2500 University Drive NW, Calgary, AB T2N 1N4, Canada.

Cognitive deficits are consistently demonstrated in individuals with 
schizophrenia. Cognitive training involves structured exercises prescribed and 
undertaken with the intention of enhancing cognitive abilities such as 
attention, memory, and problem solving. Thus, cognitive training represents a 
potentially promising intervention for enhancing cognitive abilities in 
schizophrenia. However, cognitive training programs are numerous and 
heterogeneous, hence, the generalizability of training related outcomes can be 
challenging to assess. This article will provide a brief overview of current 
literature on cognitive training and explore how knowledge of working memory 
training in healthy populations can potentially be applied to enhance cognitive 
functioning of individuals with schizophrenia.

DOI: 10.3390/bs4030301
PMCID: PMC4219266
PMID: 25379283


1450. Neuroimage Clin. 2014 Aug 1;6:1-8. doi: 10.1016/j.nicl.2014.07.014. eCollection 
2014.

Arterial spin labelling reveals prolonged arterial arrival time in idiopathic 
Parkinson's disease.

Al-Bachari S(1), Parkes LM(2), Vidyasagar R(2), Hanby MF(3), Tharaken V(4), 
Leroi I(4), Emsley HC(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Royal Preston Hospital, Preston, UK ; Centre for 
Imaging Science, Institute of Population Health, University of Manchester, UK.
(2)Centre for Imaging Science, Institute of Population Health, University of 
Manchester, UK.
(3)Department of Neurology, Royal Preston Hospital, Preston, UK.
(4)Institute of Brain, Behaviour and Mental Health, University of Manchester, 
UK.
(5)Department of Neurology, Royal Preston Hospital, Preston, UK ; School of 
Medicine, University of Manchester, UK.

Idiopathic Parkinson's disease (IPD) is the second most common neurodegenerative 
disease, yet effective disease modifying treatments are still lacking. 
Neurodegeneration involves multiple interacting pathological pathways. The 
extent to which neurovascular mechanisms are involved is not well defined in 
IPD. We aimed to determine whether novel magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) 
techniques, including arterial spin labelling (ASL) quantification of cerebral 
perfusion, can reveal altered neurovascular status (NVS) in IPD. Fourteen 
participants with IPD (mean ± SD age 65.1 ± 5.9 years) and 14 age and 
cardiovascular risk factor matched control participants (mean ± SD age 64.6 ± 
4.2 years) underwent a 3T MRI scan protocol. ASL images were collected before, 
during and after a 6 minute hypercapnic challenge. FLAIR images were used to 
determine white matter lesion score. Quantitative images of cerebral blood flow 
(CBF) and arterial arrival time (AAT) were calculated from the ASL data both at 
rest and during hypercapnia. Cerebrovascular reactivity (CVR) images were 
calculated, depicting the change in CBF and AAT relative to the change in 
end-tidal CO2. A significant (p = 0.005) increase in whole brain averaged 
baseline AAT was observed in IPD participants (mean ± SD age 1532 ± 138 ms) 
compared to controls (mean ± SD age 1335 ± 165 ms). Voxel-wise analysis revealed 
this to be widespread across the brain. However, there were no statistically 
significant differences in white matter lesion score, CBF, or CVR between 
patients and controls. Regional CBF, but not AAT, in the IPD group was found to 
correlate positively with Montreal cognitive assessment (MoCA) scores. These 
findings provide further evidence of alterations in NVS in IPD.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nicl.2014.07.014
PMCID: PMC4215519
PMID: 25379411 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1451. Child Neuropsychol. 2016 Jan;22(1):39-64. doi: 10.1080/09297049.2014.967669. 
Epub 2014 Nov 7.

A longitudinal investigation of children internationally adopted at school age.

Helder EJ(1), Mulder E(1), Gunnoe ML(1).

Author information:
(1)Psychology Department, Calvin College, Grand Rapids, MI, USA.

Most existing research on children adopted internationally has focused on those 
adopted as infants and toddlers. The current study longitudinally tracked 
several outcomes, including cognitive, behavioral, emotional, attachment, and 
family functioning, in 25 children who had been internationally adopted at 
school age (M = 7.7 years old at adoption, SD = 3.4, range = 4-15 years). We 
examined the incidence of clinically significant impairments, significant change 
in outcomes over the three study points, and variables that predicted outcomes 
over time. Clinically significant impairments in sustained attention, full-scale 
intelligence, reading, language, executive functioning, externalizing problems, 
and parenting stress were common, with language and executive functioning 
impairments present at higher levels in the current study compared with past 
research focusing on children adopted as infants and toddlers. Over the three 
study points, significant improvements across most cognitive areas and 
attachment functioning were observed, though significant worsening in executive 
functioning and internalizing problems was present. Adoptive family-specific 
variables, such as greater maternal education, smaller family size, a parenting 
approach that encouraged age-expected behaviors, home schooling, and being the 
sole adopted child in the family were associated with greater improvement across 
several cognitive outcomes. In contrast, decreased parenting stress was 
predicted by having multiple adopted children and smaller family sizes were 
associated with greater difficulties with executive functioning. Child-specific 
variables were also linked to outcomes, with girls displaying worse attachment 
and poorer cognitive performance and with less time in orphanage care resulting 
in greater adoption success. Implications for future research and clinical 
applications are discussed.

DOI: 10.1080/09297049.2014.967669
PMID: 25380232


1452. Biosci Trends. 2014 Oct;8(5):286-9. doi: 10.5582/bst.2014.01045.

Revisiting Einstein's brain in Brain Awareness Week.

Chen H(1), Chen S, Zeng L, Zhou L, Hou S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, South University of Science and Technology of China.

Albert Einstein's brain has long been an object of fascination to both 
neuroscience specialists and the general public. However, without records of 
advanced neuro-imaging of his brain, conclusions regarding Einstein's 
extraordinary cognitive capabilities can only be drawn based on the unique 
external features of his brain and through comparison of the external features 
with those of other human brain samples. The recent discovery of 14 previously 
unpublished photographs of Einstein's brain taken at unconventional angles by 
Dr. Thomas Stoltz Harvey, the pathologist, ignited a renewed frenzy about clues 
to explain Einstein's genius. Dr. Dean Falk and her colleagues, in their 
landmark paper published in Brain (2013; 136:1304-1327), described in such 
details about the unusual features of Einstein's brain, which shed new light on 
Einstein's intelligence. In this article, we ask what are the unique structures 
of his brain? What can we learn from this new information? Can we really explain 
his extraordinary cognitive capabilities based on these unique brain structures? 
We conclude that studying the brain of a remarkable person like Albert Einstein 
indeed provides us a better example to comprehensively appreciate the 
relationship between brain structures and advanced cognitive functions. However, 
caution must be exercised so as not to over-interpret his intelligence solely 
based on the understanding of the surface structures of his brain.

DOI: 10.5582/bst.2014.01045
PMID: 25382446 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1453. J Child Psychol Psychiatry. 2015 Aug;56(8):857-64. doi: 10.1111/jcpp.12358. Epub 
2014 Nov 8.

Neuro-cognitive performance of very preterm or very low birth weight adults at 
26 years.

Eryigit Madzwamuse S(1), Baumann N(1), Jaekel J(1)(2), Bartmann P(3), Wolke 
D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Warwick, Coventry, UK.
(2)Ruhr University Bochum, Bochum, Germany.
(3)Department of Neonatology, University Hospital Bonn, Bonn, Germany.

Comment in
    Evid Based Ment Health. 2016 Nov;19(4):e28.

BACKGROUND: Children born very preterm (VP <32 weeks gestation) and/or with very 
low birth weight (VBLW <1500 g; subsequently VP/VLBW) have been previously 
reported to have more cognitive impairment and specific executive functioning 
problems than term children; however, it remains unclear whether these problems 
persist into adulthood. This study aimed to examine general intelligence (IQ) 
and executive functioning (EF) of adults born VP/VLBW in comparison to term 
controls. Additionally, the effects of smallness for gestational age (SGA) and 
family socioeconomic status (SES) at birth were investigated.
METHODS: The Bavarian Longitudinal Study is a geographically defined prospective 
cohort study of neonatal at-risk children born in 1985/86 in Southern Germany. A 
total of 217 VP/VLBW and 197 controls completed the battery of IQ and EF tests 
at 26 years of age.
RESULTS: VP/VLBW adults scored significantly lower than controls in IQ and EF. 
There was a 1.16 standard deviation (SD) unit difference between the VP/VLBW and 
controls in Full-Scale IQ. VP/VLBW adults were found to have general and 
multiple cognitive problems rather than specific deficits in EF. SGA was not a 
significant predictor of cognitive impairment. Family SES had a significant 
impact on general intelligence in both VP/VLBW and term controls. The SES 
effects amounted to 1.13 SD units between individuals born into high versus low 
SES.
CONCLUSIONS: No narrowing of cognitive deficits between VP/VLBW and term control 
adults to previous childhood assessments at 6 years of age was found. VP/VLBW 
adults do not outgrow their cognitive problems despite many receiving special 
educational support in childhood. Low family SES at birth has similar additive 
adverse effects on cognitive performance in VP/VLBW and term offspring.

© 2014 Association for Child and Adolescent Mental Health.

DOI: 10.1111/jcpp.12358
PMID: 25382451 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1454. Expert Opin Drug Saf. 2014 Dec;13(12):1653-65. doi: 
10.1517/14740338.2014.965677. Epub 2014 Nov 10.

Fetal outcome after prenatal exposure to chemotherapy and mechanisms of 
teratogenicity compared to alcohol and smoking.

Vandenbroucke T(1), Verheecke M, Van Calsteren K, Han S, Claes L, Amant F.

Author information:
(1)KU Leuven - University of Leuven, Department of Oncology , Herestraat 49, 
B-3000 Leuven , Belgium +32 16 34 42 52 ; +32 16 34 42 05 ; 
frederic.amant@uzleuven.be.

INTRODUCTION: The treatment of cancer during pregnancy is challenging because of 
the involvement of two individuals and the necessity of a multidisciplinary 
approach. An important concern is the potential impact of chemotherapy on the 
developing fetus.
AREAS COVERED: The authors review the available literature on neonatal and 
long-term outcome of children prenatally exposed to chemotherapy. Chemotherapy 
administered during first trimester of pregnancy results in increased congenital 
malformations (7.5 - 17% compared to 4.1 - 6.9% background risk), whereas normal 
rates are found during second or third trimester. Intrauterine growth 
restriction is seen in 7 - 21% (compared to 10%), but children develop normal 
weight and height on the long term. Children are born preterm in 67.1%, compared 
to 4% in general population. Normal intelligence, attention, memory and behavior 
are reported, although intelligence tends to decrease with prematurity. Global 
heart function remains normal, although small differences are seen in ejection 
fraction, fractional shortening and some diastolic parameters. No secondary 
cancers or fertility problems are encountered, but follow up periods are 
limited.
EXPERT OPINION: Most evidence is based on retrospective studies with small 
samples and limited follow up periods, methodology and lack of control groups. A 
large prospective case-control study with long-term follow up is needed in which 
confounding factors are well considered.

DOI: 10.1517/14740338.2014.965677
PMID: 25382454 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1455. Psychol Sci. 2014 Dec;25(12):2217-32. doi: 10.1177/0956797614551371. Epub 2014 
Nov 10.

Life paths and accomplishments of mathematically precocious males and females 
four decades later.

Lubinski D(1), Benbow CP(2), Kell HJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Vanderbilt University david.lubinski@vanderbilt.edu.
(2)Vanderbilt University.

Erratum in
    Psychol Sci. 2015 Apr;26(4):552-3.

Two cohorts of intellectually talented 13-year-olds were identified in the 1970s 
(1972-1974 and 1976-1978) as being in the top 1% of mathematical reasoning 
ability (1,037 males, 613 females). About four decades later, data on their 
careers, accomplishments, psychological well-being, families, and life 
preferences and priorities were collected. Their accomplishments far exceeded 
base-rate expectations: Across the two cohorts, 4.1% had earned tenure at a 
major research university, 2.3% were top executives at "name brand" or Fortune 
500 companies, and 2.4% were attorneys at major firms or organizations; 
participants had published 85 books and 7,572 refereed articles, secured 681 
patents, and amassed $358 million in grants. For both males and females, 
mathematical precocity early in life predicts later creative contributions and 
leadership in critical occupational roles. On average, males had incomes much 
greater than their spouses', whereas females had incomes slightly lower than 
their spouses'. Salient sex differences that paralleled the differential career 
outcomes of the male and female participants were found in lifestyle preferences 
and priorities and in time allocation.

© The Author(s) 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/0956797614551371
PMID: 25384550 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1456. J Clin Oncol. 2014 Dec 10;32(35):3982-8. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2014.56.2223. Epub 
2014 Nov 10.

Cognitive outcome after pediatric stem-cell transplantation: impact of age and 
total-body irradiation.

Willard VW(1), Leung W(1), Huang Q(1), Zhang H(1), Phipps S(2).

Author information:
(1)All authors: St Jude Children's Research Hospital, Memphis, TN.
(2)All authors: St Jude Children's Research Hospital, Memphis, TN. 
sean.phipps@stjude.org.

PURPOSE: To examine the influence of age and conditioning with total-body 
irradiation (TBI) on the trajectory of cognitive functioning after treatment 
with pediatric hematopoietic stem-cell transplantation (SCT).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Pediatric patients who were scheduled to undergo a SCT 
were eligible for the study, with 315 patients completing a baseline assessment. 
Of these, 183 patients (58.1%) were alive at 1 year after SCT and completed 
additional assessments at 1, 3, and 5 years after SCT. Half of the long-term 
sample (52.1%) received TBI during conditioning. Cognitive functioning was 
assessed via age-appropriate standardized measures.
RESULTS: At baseline, there were no differences in intelligence quotient (IQ) 
based on age. At 5 years after SCT, the youngest patients (< 3 years old at 
baseline) who received TBI demonstrated a significantly lower IQ than those who 
did not receive TBI (P = .05). Longitudinal analyses (piecewise linear 
mixed-effects models with a knot at 1 year after SCT) revealed a significant 
impact of age and TBI over time. The youngest patients evidenced declines in 
cognitive functioning during the first year; however, patients who did not 
receive TBI largely recovered their functioning in subsequent years. In 
contrast, young patients who received TBI failed to recover the losses 
experienced during the first year after SCT, demonstrating stability in their 
functioning, but at a lower level.
CONCLUSION: Our findings clarify the relationship between TBI and age on 
cognitive outcomes in pediatric SCT survivors. Young patients who receive TBI 
may benefit from early intervention efforts to minimize cognitive losses during 
the first year after SCT and to maximize potential recovery.

© 2014 by American Society of Clinical Oncology.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2014.56.2223
PMCID: PMC4251961
PMID: 25385724 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Authors' disclosures of potential conflicts of 
interest are found in the article online at www.jco.org. Author contributions 
are found at the end of this article.


1457. Front Behav Neurosci. 2014 Oct 24;8:369. doi: 10.3389/fnbeh.2014.00369. 
eCollection 2014.

"Executive functions" cannot be distinguished from general intelligence: two 
variations on a single theme within a symphony of latent variance.

Royall DR(1), Palmer RF(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, The University of Texas Health Science Center, San 
Antonio San Antonio, TX, USA ; Department of Medicine, The University of Texas 
Health Science Center, San Antonio San Antonio, TX, USA ; Department of Family 
and Community Medicine, The University of Texas Health Science Center, San 
Antonio San Antonio, TX, USA ; The South Texas Veterans' Health System Audie L. 
Murphy Division, Geriatric Research Education and Clinical Center San Antonio, 
TX, USA.
(2)Department of Family and Community Medicine, The University of Texas Health 
Science Center, San Antonio San Antonio, TX, USA.

The empirical foundation of executive control function (ECF) remains 
controversial. We have employed structural equation models (SEM) to explicitly 
distinguish domain-specific variance in executive function (EF) performance from 
memory (MEM) and shared cognitive performance variance, i.e., Spearman's "g." EF 
does not survive adjustment for both MEM and g in a well fitting model of data 
obtained from non-demented older persons (N = 193). Instead, the variance in 
putative EF measures is attributable only to g, and related to functional status 
only through a fraction of that construct (i.e., "d"). d is a homolog of the 
latent variable δ, which we have previously associated specifically with the 
Default Mode Network (DMN). These findings undermine the validity of EF and its 
putative association with the frontal lobe. ECF may have no existence 
independent of general intelligence, and no functionally salient association 
with the frontal lobe outside of that structure's contribution to the DMN.

DOI: 10.3389/fnbeh.2014.00369
PMCID: PMC4208406
PMID: 25386125


1458. ScientificWorldJournal. 2014;2014:528917. doi: 10.1155/2014/528917. Epub 2014 
Oct 15.

Proactive supply chain performance management with predictive analytics.

Stefanovic N(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Mathematics and Informatics, Faculty of Science, University of 
Kragujevac, Radoja Domanovica 12, 34000 Kragujevac, Serbia.

Today's business climate requires supply chains to be proactive rather than 
reactive, which demands a new approach that incorporates data mining predictive 
analytics. This paper introduces a predictive supply chain performance 
management model which combines process modelling, performance measurement, data 
mining models, and web portal technologies into a unique model. It presents the 
supply chain modelling approach based on the specialized metamodel which allows 
modelling of any supply chain configuration and at different level of details. 
The paper also presents the supply chain semantic business intelligence (BI) 
model which encapsulates data sources and business rules and includes the data 
warehouse model with specific supply chain dimensions, measures, and KPIs (key 
performance indicators). Next, the paper describes two generic approaches for 
designing the KPI predictive data mining models based on the BI semantic model. 
KPI predictive models were trained and tested with a real-world data set. 
Finally, a specialized analytical web portal which offers collaborative 
performance monitoring and decision making is presented. The results show that 
these models give very accurate KPI projections and provide valuable insights 
into newly emerging trends, opportunities, and problems. This should lead to 
more intelligent, predictive, and responsive supply chains capable of adapting 
to future business environment.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/528917
PMCID: PMC4214046
PMID: 25386605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1459. Psychol Rep. 2014 Dec;115(3):810-2. doi: 10.2466/04.PR0.115c27z3.

A note on a new study of intelligence in Egypt.

Bakhiet SF(1), Lynn R.

Author information:
(1)1 King Saud University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.

Three studies of intelligence in Egypt published between 1957 and 1989 and based 
on small samples gave British IQs between 77 and 83. The present paper reports 
the results of a recent study based on a much larger sample in order to examine 
how far the results of the older studies can be replicated. The Coloured 
Progressive Matrices was standardized in Egypt in 2011-2013 on a sample of 
11,284 children aged 5.6 to 10.5 years. The sample obtained a British IQ of 84.2 
and provides a satisfactory replication of the earlier studies.

DOI: 10.2466/04.PR0.115c27z3
PMID: 25386704 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1460. Indian J Pediatr. 2014 Dec;81 Suppl 2:S179-82. doi: 10.1007/s12098-014-1626-x. 
Epub 2014 Nov 13.

Comparison of burden among primary care-givers of children with autism and 
intellectual disability against children with intellectual disability only in a 
hospital population in India.

Suresh AP(1), Benjamin TE, Crasta JE, Alwinesh MT, Kanniappan G, Padankatti SM, 
Nair MK, Russell PS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Occupational Therapy, Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil 
Nadu, India.

OBJECTIVE: To compare the burden among the primary caregivers (PCG) of children 
with autism and intellectual disability (ASD + ID) against intellectual 
disability (ID) only, and identify the factors that predict high caregiver 
burden.
METHODS: Children with either ASD + ID (N = 41) or ID (N = 56) and their PCG 
were recruited and assessed using the Family Burden Interview Schedule, Binet 
Kamat Scale of Intelligence or Gesell's Developmental Schedule and Vineland 
Social Maturity Scale, Childhood Autism Rating Scale, Sensory Profile and Brief 
Autism Mealtime Behavior Inventory after collecting the socio-demographic 
details. Appropriate bivariate and multivariate statistical test were used.
RESULTS: The total burden and level of burden was similar among PCG of children 
with ASD + ID and ID (P = 0.8). However, financial burden (P = 0.03) and burden 
due to the effects on the physical health of other family members (P = 0.03) was 
more among the ID group. The burden due to the effects on family interaction was 
more (P = 0.009) in the ASD + ID group. The socio-economic status (OR = 3.60; 
P = 0.03) and the kinship of the primary care-giver (OR = 0.37; P = 0.008) were 
significantly associated with high level of burden. In addition, the diagnosis, 
and gender of the child contributed to the prediction model for high level of 
burden.
CONCLUSIONS: The interventions for children with ASD + ID and ID should have 
modules to address burden among PCG. Disability specific burden alleviating 
strategies should be used among PCG who are at risk of having high burden.

DOI: 10.1007/s12098-014-1626-x
PMID: 25387661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1461. Epidemiol Prev. 2014 Sep-Oct;38(5):335-41.

[Inverse probability weighting (IPW) for evaluating and "correcting" selection 
bias].

[Article in Italian]

Narduzzi S(1), Golini MN, Porta D, Stafoggia M, Forastiere F.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di epidemiologia, Servizio sanitario della Regione Lazio, Roma. 
s.narduzzi@deplazio.it.

Comment in
    Epidemiol Prev. 2015 Jan-Feb;39(1):52-4.

INTRODUCTION: the Inverse probability weighting (IPW) is a methodology developed 
to account for missingness and selection bias caused by non-randomselection of 
observations, or non-random lack of some information in a subgroup of the 
population.
OBJECTIVES: to provide an overview of IPW methodology and an application in a 
cohort study of the association between exposure to traffic air pollution 
(nitrogen dioxide, NO₂) and 7-year children IQ.
METHOD: this methodology allows to correct the analysis by weighting the 
observations with the probability of being selected. The IPW is based on the 
assumption that individual information that can predict the probability of 
inclusion (non-missingness) are available for the entire study population, so 
that, after taking account of them, we can make inferences about the entire 
target population starting from the nonmissing observations alone.The procedure 
for the calculation is the following: firstly, we consider the entire population 
at study and calculate the probability of non-missing information using a 
logistic regression model, where the response is the nonmissingness and the 
covariates are its possible predictors.The weight of each subject is given by 
the inverse of the predicted probability. Then the analysis is performed only on 
the non-missing observations using a weighted model.
CONCLUSIONS: IPW is a technique that allows to embed the selection process in 
the analysis of the estimates, but its effectiveness in "correcting" the 
selection bias depends on the availability of enough information, for the entire 
population, to predict the non-missingness probability. In the example proposed, 
the IPW application showed that the effect of exposure to NO2 on the area of 
verbal intelligence quotient of children is stronger than the effect showed from 
the analysis performed without regard to the selection processes.

PMID: 25387748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1462. Am J Med Genet A. 2015 Jan;167A(1):64-8. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.a.36787. Epub 2014 
Nov 11.

Comparative analysis of autistic traits and behavioral disorders in Prader-Willi 
syndrome and Asperger disorder.

Song DK(1), Sawada M, Yokota S, Kuroda K, Uenishi H, Kanazawa T, Ogata H, Ihara 
H, Nagai T, Shimoda K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Dokkyo Medical University, School of Medicine, 
Tochigi, Japan; Hannan Hospital, Osaka, Japan.

Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) is a neuro-genetic disorder caused by the 
absence/loss of expression of one or more paternally expressed genes on 
chromosome 15 (q11-13). In this study, a comparative analysis of intelligence 
level and autistic traits was conducted between children with PWS (n = 30; 18 
males, 12 females; age = 10.6 ± 2.8 years) and those with Asperger disorder (AD; 
n = 31; 24 males, 7 females; age = 10.5 ± 3.1 years). The children were compared 
by age group: lower elementary school age (6-8 years), upper elementary school 
age (9-12 years), and middle school age (13-15 years). As results, the 
intelligence levels of children with PWS were significantly lower than those 
with AD across all age groups. Autistic traits, assessed using the Pervasive 
Developmental Disorders Autism Society Japan Rating Scale (PARS), revealed that 
among elementary school age children, those with PWS had less prominent autistic 
traits than those with AD, however, among middle school age children, those with 
PWS and AD showed similar prominence. An analysis of the PARS subscale scores by 
age group showed that while the profiles of autistic traits for children with 
PWS differed from those of children with AD at elementary school age, the 
profiles showed no significant differences between the groups at middle school 
age. The findings suggest that autistic traits in PWS become gradually more 
prominent with increasing of age and that these autistic traits differ in their 
fundamental nature from those observed in AD.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.a.36787
PMID: 25388910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1463. Pediatr Transplant. 2015 Mar;19(2):229-34. doi: 10.1111/petr.12389. Epub 2014 
Nov 12.

Intellectual and academic performance in children undergoing solid organ 
pretransplant evaluation.

Reed-Knight B(1), Lee JL, Cousins LA, Mee LL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Transplant Services, Children's Healthcare of Atlanta, Atlanta, 
GA, USA; Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Emory University 
School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA, USA.

Comment in
    Pediatr Transplant. 2015 Mar;19(2):136-8.

Although prior research has shown lower intellectual functioning across 
pediatric solid organ transplant recipients relative to matched siblings or norm 
comparisons, few studies have assessed intellectual and academic performance 
prior to transplant across organ groups. The current data examine intellectual 
and academic functioning in children being evaluated for kidney, liver, or heart 
transplant. This investigation included intellectual and academic testing data 
from 195 children and adolescents between the ages of six and 19 yr evaluated 
for solid organ transplantation. Across organ groups, patients' intellectual 
functioning as estimated by the WASI/WASI-II at the time of pretransplant 
evaluation was within the average range, but lower compared to test norms. 
Patients demonstrated lower estimates of word reading, math computation, and 
spelling skills compared to the normal population, with the exception of heart 
patients' word reading and spelling skills and liver patients' spelling scores. 
Cognitive and academic impairments exist in children prior to transplantation. 
Findings emphasize the support that patients may require to manage the 
complicated medical regimen and succeed academically. Routine cognitive and 
academic assessment can inform healthcare providers regarding transplant 
patients' capacity to take on increasing medical responsibility and successfully 
reintegrate into the school environment.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/petr.12389
PMID: 25389073 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1464. Can J Neurol Sci. 2014 Nov;41(6):729-34. doi: 10.1017/cjn.2014.108. Epub 2014 
Nov 13.

Neuropsychological outcome after endoscopic third ventriculostomy.

Hader WJ(1), Brooks BL(2), Partlo L(3), Hamilton M(1).

Author information:
(1)1Department of Clinical Neurosciences,University of CalgaryAlberta Children's 
Hospital Research Institute,Calgary,Alberta,Canada.
(2)3Department of Paediatrics,University of CalgaryAlberta Children's Hospital 
Research Institute,Calgary,Alberta,Canada.
(3)2Department of Psychology,University of CalgaryAlberta Children's Hospital 
Research Institute,Calgary,Alberta,Canada.

BACKGROUND: Cognitive dysfunction is a common complaint associated with 
obstructive hydrocephalus. The purpose of this study was to determine the effect 
of endoscopic third ventriculostomy (ETV) on the neuropsychological outcome in 
patients presenting with cognitive decline and obstructive hydrocephalus.
METHODS: A retrospective review of patients who underwent ETV at the University 
of Calgary and had both pre and post operative neuropsychological testing, was 
completed. Presenting clinical features, etiology of hydrocephalus and ventricle 
size utilizing frontal occipital horn ratio was obtained. Outcomes and 
complications of the ETV were recorded. Detailed measures of intelligence, 
attention and concentration, executive function, visual and verbal memory, 
language functions and fine motor skills were completed. Post treatment change 
was determined utilizing Reliable Change Index.
RESULTS: A total of 13 patients were identified. Etiology of the hydrocephalus 
was aqueductal stenosis in 8 and tectal glioma in 4. The majority of patients 
(11 of 13, 85%) demonstrated cognitive dysfunction at the borderline (≤1 SD) or 
impairment level (≤1.5 SDs) in at least one domain. Nine patients (69%) showed 
reliable improvement in at least one cognitive domain. The greatest improvement 
was seen with visual memory (42%). One quarter to one third of patients 
demonstrated improvement on tests of intelligence quotient, verbal memory, 
attention and concentration, and executive function. Two patients declined in 
executive functioning. Ventricle size improved in eight patients.
CONCLUSIONS: ETV is a safe effective procedure, capable of producing reliable 
improvements in cognitive dysfunction with hydrocephalus. Patients with 
cognitive complaints alone may benefit from ETV.

DOI: 10.1017/cjn.2014.108
PMID: 25391336 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1465. Chronobiol Int. 2015 Apr;32(3):349-57. doi: 10.3109/07420528.2014.980508. Epub 
2014 Nov 13.

The influence of chronotype and intelligence on academic achievement in primary 
school is mediated by conscientiousness, midpoint of sleep and motivation.

Arbabi T(1), Vollmer C, Dörfler T, Randler C.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Science, Technology & Geography, University of Education , 
Heidelberg , Germany and.

Individuals differ in their timing of sleep (bed times, rise times) and in their 
preference for morning or evening hours. Previous work focused on the 
relationship between academic achievement and these variables in secondary 
school students. The main aim of the study is to investigate the relationship 
between chronotype and academic achievement in 10-year-old children (n = 1125) 
attending 4th grade of primary school. They filled a cognitive test (Culture 
Fair Intelligence Test, CFT 20-R) and questions about rise times and bed times, 
academic achievement, conscientiousness and motivation. We used the "scales for 
the assessment of learning and performance motivation" (SELLMO; Skalen zur 
Erfassung der Lern- und Leistungsmotivation for motivation), the short version 
of the Five-Factor Personality Inventory Children (FFPI-C) to measure 
conscientiousness, and the Composite Scale of Morningness (CSM) to assess 
morningness-eveningness. Mean CSM score was 37.84 ± 6.66, midpoint of sleep was 
1:36 ± 00:25 and average sleep duration (time in bed) was 10:15 ± 0:48. 
Morningness orientation was positively related to intelligence, 
conscientiousness and learning objectives. Eveningness orientation was related 
to avoidance performance objectives and work avoidance. Early midpoint of sleep, 
conscientiousness and intelligence were associated with better grades. The 
multivariate model showed that intelligence was the strongest predictor of good 
grades. Conscientiousness, motivation, younger age and an earlier midpoint of 
sleep were positively related to good grades. This is the first study in primary 
school pupils, and it shows that the relationship between evening orientation 
and academic achievement is already prevalent at this age even when controlling 
for important predictors of achievement.

DOI: 10.3109/07420528.2014.980508
PMID: 25392281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1466. Springerplus. 2014 Oct 21;3:552. doi: 10.1186/2193-1801-3-552. eCollection 2014.

Application of the SP theory of intelligence to the understanding of natural 
vision and the development of computer vision.

Wolff JG(1).

Author information:
(1)CognitionResearch.org, Menai Bridge, UK.

The SP theory of intelligence aims to simplify and integrate concepts in 
computing and cognition, with information compression as a unifying theme. This 
article is about how the SP theory may, with advantage, be applied to the 
understanding of natural vision and the development of computer vision. 
Potential benefits include an overall simplification of concepts in a universal 
framework for knowledge and seamless integration of vision with other sensory 
modalities and other aspects of intelligence. Low level perceptual features such 
as edges or corners may be identified by the extraction of redundancy in uniform 
areas in the manner of the run-length encoding technique for information 
compression. The concept of multiple alignment in the SP theory may be applied 
to the recognition of objects, and to scene analysis, with a hierarchy of parts 
and sub-parts, at multiple levels of abstraction, and with family-resemblance or 
polythetic categories. The theory has potential for the unsupervised learning of 
visual objects and classes of objects, and suggests how coherent concepts may be 
derived from fragments. As in natural vision, both recognition and learning in 
the SP system are robust in the face of errors of omission, commission and 
substitution. The theory suggests how, via vision, we may piece together a 
knowledge of the three-dimensional structure of objects and of our environment, 
it provides an account of how we may see things that are not objectively present 
in an image, how we may recognise something despite variations in the size of 
its retinal image, and how raster graphics and vector graphics may be unified. 
And it has things to say about the phenomena of lightness constancy and colour 
constancy, the role of context in recognition, ambiguities in visual perception, 
and the integration of vision with other senses and other aspects of 
intelligence.

DOI: 10.1186/2193-1801-3-552
PMCID: PMC4210453
PMID: 25392768


1467. Clin Neuropsychol. 2014;28(8):1295-310. doi: 10.1080/13854046.2014.978382. Epub 
2014 Nov 13.

Analysis of young children's abilities to cluster and switch during a verbal 
fluency task.

Resch C(1), Martens R, Hurks P.

Author information:
(1)a Faculty of Psychology and Neuroscience , Maastricht University , Maastricht 
, The Netherlands.

To investigate developmental changes that take place in verbal fluency (VF) 
performance during early childhood, a VF task was administered to 225 healthy, 
Dutch-speaking children aged between 4.14 and 6.89 years. Three categories of VF 
outcome measures were included: i.e., word productivity, mean cluster size, and 
number of switches. Age influenced performance on all VF outcome measures 
linearly; i.e., older children produced more words, made longer clusters, and 
switched more. Higher levels of intelligence were associated with increased VF 
word productivity, but not with measures of switching and clustering. When 
leaving intelligence out of these analyses, we additionally found an interaction 
between level of parental education (LPE) and sex on total word productivity, 
i.e., girls with parents who had lower LPE produced fewer words than the other 
children. Furthermore, a similar interaction of LPE and sex was found for the 
number of switches: i.e., girls who had parents with lower LPE made fewer 
switches than the other children. Findings suggest that even in 4 to 6-year-old 
children important changes take place over time in VF and in processes 
underlying successful performance. Attention should be paid to age-extrinsic 
factors, such as LPE and sex, since these have been found to influence VF 
performance in young children.

DOI: 10.1080/13854046.2014.978382
PMID: 25393549 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1468. Hum Brain Mapp. 2015 Mar;36(3):923-34. doi: 10.1002/hbm.22676. Epub 2014 Nov 13.

Frontopolar activity and connectivity support dynamic conscious augmentation of 
creative state.

Green AE(1), Cohen MS, Raab HA, Yedibalian CG, Gray JR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Georgetown University, Washington, DC.

No ability is more valued in the modern innovation-fueled economy than thinking 
creatively on demand, and the "thinking cap" capacity to augment state 
creativity (i.e., to try and succeed at thinking more creatively) is of broad 
importance for education and a rich mental life. Although brain-based creativity 
research has focused on static individual differences in trait creativity, less 
is known about changes in creative state within an individual. How does the 
brain augment state creativity when creative thinking is required? Can augmented 
creative state be consciously engaged and disengaged dynamically across time? 
Using a novel "thin slice" creativity paradigm in 55 fMRI participants 
performing verb-generation, we successfully cued large, conscious, 
short-duration increases in state creativity, indexed quantitatively by a 
measure of semantic distance derived via latent semantic analysis. A region of 
left frontopolar cortex, previously associated with creative integration of 
semantic information, exhibited increased activity and functional connectivity 
to anterior cingulate gyrus and right frontopolar cortex during cued 
augmentation of state creativity. Individual differences in the extent of 
increased activity in this region predicted individual differences in the extent 
to which participants were able to successfully augment state creative 
performance after accounting for trait creativity and intelligence.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/hbm.22676
PMCID: PMC6869232
PMID: 25394198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1469. Saudi J Kidney Dis Transpl. 2014 Nov;25(6):1224-31. doi: 
10.4103/1319-2442.144256.

Neurocognitive functions and behavioral profiles in children with nephropathic 
cystinosis.

Aly R, Makar S(1), El Bakri A, Soliman NA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics-Center of Pediatric Nephrology and Transplantation, 
Cairo University; Egyptian Group for Orphan Renal Diseases, Cairo, Egypt.

Children with nephropathic cystinosis (NCTN) have evidence of defective 
intellectual functions and behavioral disorders. This prospective study was 
performed to detect the cognitive dysfunctions in patients with this rare 
hereditary lysosomal storage disease, define their behavioral phenotypes, and 
study the findings on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain. Thirteen 
patients with confirmed diagnosis of cystinosis (mean age±SD 5.9±3.0, range 
1.5-12 years) were subjected to the Stanford Binet test, Porteus Maze test, 
Child Behavior Checklist, and MRI brain. Thirteen age- and sex-matched children 
served as the control subjects (mean age±SD 5.9±2.9, range 1.7-12 years). The 
intelligence quotient (IQ) was significantly lower in patients with cystinosis 
(P<0.001), with a significant defect in verbal (language, memory, and 
comprehension) and non-verbal abilities (visual perception and visiospatial and 
motor performance). A discrepancy between both abilities was detected--the 
non-verbal ability being lower; however, it did not reach statistical 
significance. Furthermore, analysis revealed the visiospatial ability to be 
significantly lower compared to the visual perception. In comparison to healthy 
controls, children with NCTN had evidence of increased incidence of behavioral 
problems, mainly social (P=0.023). An MRI of the brain revealed varying degrees 
of atrophic changes in seven patients. Patients with NCTN need a wider scope of 
attention and care, encompassing not only the metabolic multisystem derangement, 
but also the neuropsychological impairment in the context of multidisciplinary 
management. This approach is crucial in formulating comprehensive plans for 
social and educational rehabilitation.

DOI: 10.4103/1319-2442.144256
PMID: 25394439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1470. Eur J Endocrinol. 2015 Feb;172(2):129-39. doi: 10.1530/EJE-14-0093. Epub 2014 
Nov 13.

Thyroid status and its association with cognitive functioning in healthy boys at 
10 years of age.

Pérez-Lobato R(1), Ramos R(1), Arrebola JP(2), Calvente I(1), Ocón-Hernández 
O(1), Dávila-Arias C(1), Pérez-García M(1), Olea N(2), Fernández MF(3).

Author information:
(1)Unit Research Support of the San Cecilio University HospitalInstituto de 
Investigación Biosanitaria ibs.Granada, University of Granada, 18071 Granada, 
SpainOncology UnitVirgen de las Nieves University Hospital, Granada, 
SpainDepartment of GynecologyInstituto de Investigación Biosanitaria de Granada, 
San Cecilio University Hospital, University of Granada, 18071 Granada, 
SpainDepartment of Clinical PsychologyUniversity of Granada, San Cecilio 
University Hospital, Institute of Neuroscience F, Oloriz, 18071 Granada, 
SpainCIBER en Epidemiología y Salud Pública (CIBERESP)Granada, Spain.
(2)Unit Research Support of the San Cecilio University HospitalInstituto de 
Investigación Biosanitaria ibs.Granada, University of Granada, 18071 Granada, 
SpainOncology UnitVirgen de las Nieves University Hospital, Granada, 
SpainDepartment of GynecologyInstituto de Investigación Biosanitaria de Granada, 
San Cecilio University Hospital, University of Granada, 18071 Granada, 
SpainDepartment of Clinical PsychologyUniversity of Granada, San Cecilio 
University Hospital, Institute of Neuroscience F, Oloriz, 18071 Granada, 
SpainCIBER en Epidemiología y Salud Pública (CIBERESP)Granada, Spain Unit 
Research Support of the San Cecilio University HospitalInstituto de 
Investigación Biosanitaria ibs.Granada, University of Granada, 18071 Granada, 
SpainOncology UnitVirgen de las Nieves University Hospital, Granada, 
SpainDepartment of GynecologyInstituto de Investigación Biosanitaria de Granada, 
San Cecilio University Hospital, University of Granada, 18071 Granada, 
SpainDepartment of Clinical PsychologyUniversity of Granada, San Cecilio 
University Hospital, Institute of Neuroscience F, Oloriz, 18071 Granada, 
SpainCIBER en Epidemiología y Salud Pública (CIBERESP)Granada, Spain.
(3)Unit Research Support of the San Cecilio University HospitalInstituto de 
Investigación Biosanitaria ibs.Granada, University of Granada, 18071 Granada, 
SpainOncology UnitVirgen de las Nieves University Hospital, Granada, 
SpainDepartment of GynecologyInstituto de Investigación Biosanitaria de Granada, 
San Cecilio University Hospital, University of Granada, 18071 Granada, 
SpainDepartment of Clinical PsychologyUniversity of Granada, San Cecilio 
University Hospital, Institute of Neuroscience F, Oloriz, 18071 Granada, 
SpainCIBER en Epidemiología y Salud Pública (CIBERESP)Granada, Spain Unit 
Research Support of the San Cecilio University HospitalInstituto de 
Investigación Biosanitaria ibs.Granada, University of Granada, 18071 Granada, 
SpainOncology UnitVirgen de las Nieves University Hospital, Granada, 
SpainDepartment of GynecologyInstituto de Investigación Biosanitaria de Granada, 
San Cecilio University Hospital, University of Granada, 18071 Granada, 
SpainDepartment of Clinical PsychologyUniversity of Granada, San Cecilio 
University Hospital, Institute of Neuroscience F, Oloriz, 18071 Granada, 
SpainCIBER en Epidemiología y Salud Pública (CIBERESP)Granada, Spain 
marieta@ugr.es.

OBJECTIVE: Thyroid hormones (THs) are crucial for the correct maturation of the 
CNS and the neurodevelopment of the child. We aimed to investigate the 
association of TSH and free thyroxine (FT4) levels with cognitive functioning in 
children from the INMA-Granada cohort studied during their follow-up at the age 
of 9-11 years.
DESIGN: We evaluated 300 children from the original cohort, which comprised 668 
eligible mother-son pairs recruited at birth from 2000 to 2002 in Granada 
(Spain).
METHODS: FT4 and TSH concentrations were measured, and cognitive development was 
assessed using neuropsychological tests (n=187). Children with chronic disease 
related to thyroid function and/or cognitive development were excluded.
RESULTS: Median TSH and FT4 levels were 3.1 μIU/ml and 1.2 ng/dl respectively. 
In multivariable regression analyses adjusted for maternal and child 
characteristics, children with TSH levels in the top tertile had worse verbal 
comprehension and immediate and long-term recall. Children with FT4 levels in 
the top tertile had better attention and lower impulsivity and were at a lower 
risk of scoring below the 20th percentile in intelligence quotient (OR=0.24; 95% 
CI=0.08-0.74; P=0.013) and in abstract reasoning ability (OR=0.28; 95% 
CI=0.09-0.88; P=0.029).
CONCLUSION: Our findings indicate that circulating THs and TSH may in the top 
tertile have an impact on cognitive functions; thus, higher TSH slightly but 
significantly increased the risk of a lower score in certain neuropsychological 
tests.

© 2015 European Society of Endocrinology.

DOI: 10.1530/EJE-14-0093
PMID: 25394567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1471. BJOG. 2015 Dec;122(13):1728-38. doi: 10.1111/1471-0528.13172. Epub 2014 Nov 14.

The association of pre-pregnancy alcohol drinking with child neuropsychological 
functioning.

Kesmodel US(1)(2), Kjaersgaard MI(3), Denny CH(4), Bertrand J(4), Skogerbø Å(5), 
Eriksen HL(2), Bay B(1)(2), Underbjerg M(6), Mortensen EL(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Aarhus University Hospital, Aarhus, 
Denmark.
(2)Department of Clinical Medicine, Aarhus University, Aarhus, Denmark.
(3)Section of Biostatistics, Department of Public Health, Aarhus University, 
Aarhus, Denmark.
(4)Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Atlanta, GA, USA.
(5)Division of Psychiatry, University of Stavanger, Stavanger, Norway.
(6)Children's Neurocenter at Vejlefjord Rehabilitation Center, Stouby, Denmark.
(7)Institute of Public Health and Center for Healthy Aging, University of 
Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.

Comment in
    BJOG. 2015 Dec;122(13):1739.

OBJECTIVE: To examine the effects of pre-pregnancy alcohol drinking on child 
neuropsychological functioning.
DESIGN: Prospective follow-up study.
SETTING AND POPULATION: 154 women and their children sampled from the Danish 
National Birth Cohort.
METHODS: Participants were sampled based on maternal alcohol consumption before 
pregnancy. At 5 years of age, the children were tested with the Wechsler 
Preschool and Primary Scale of Intelligence-Revised, the Test of Everyday 
Attention for Children at Five (TEACh-5), and the Movement Assessment Battery 
for Children (MABC). The Behaviour Rating Inventory of Executive Function 
(BRIEF) was completed by the mothers and a preschool teacher. Parental 
education, maternal IQ, prenatal maternal smoking, child's age at testing, 
child's sex, and maternal alcohol intake during pregnancy were considered 
potential confounders.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Performance on the Wechsler Preschool and Primary Scale 
of Intelligence-Revised, the TEACh-5, the MABC, and the BRIEF.
RESULTS: Intake of 15-21 drinks/week on average prior to pregnancy was not 
associated with any of the outcomes, but intake of ≥22 drinks/week on average 
was associated with a significantly lower adjusted mean full scale IQ and lower 
adjusted means in overall attention and sustained attention score, but not in 
selective attention score or any of the BRIEF index scores or MABC scores.
CONCLUSIONS: Intake of ≥22 drinks/week before pregnancy was associated with 
lower mean full scale IQ, overall attention and sustained attention. Assessment 
of pre-pregnancy drinking provides additional information regarding potential 
prenatal alcohol exposure and its implications for child neurodevelopment.

© 2014 Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists.

DOI: 10.1111/1471-0528.13172
PMCID: PMC4436033
PMID: 25395365 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1472. PLoS One. 2014 Nov 14;9(11):e113082. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0113082. 
eCollection 2014.

Hyper-theory-of-mind in children with Psychotic Experiences.

Clemmensen L(1), van Os J(2), Skovgaard AM(3), Væver M(4), Blijd-Hoogewys EM(5), 
Bartels-Velthuis AA(6), Jeppesen P(1).

Author information:
(1)Child and Adolescent Mental Health Center, Mental Health Services, the 
Capital Region of Denmark, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(2)Department of Psychiatry and Psychology, Maastricht University Medical 
Centre, Maastricht, The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Public Health, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(4)Department of Psychology, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(5)INTER-PSY Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands.
(6)University of Groningen, University Medical Center Groningen, University 
Center for Psychiatry Groningen, Groningen Triadegebouw, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Alterations in Theory-of-Mind (ToM) are associated with psychotic 
disorder. In addition, studies in children have documented that alterations in 
ToM are associated with Psychotic Experiences (PE). Our aim was to examine 
associations between an exaggerated type of ToM (HyperToM) and PE in children. 
Children with this type of alteration in ToM infer mental states when none are 
obviously suggested, and predict behaviour on the basis of these erroneous 
beliefs. Individuals with HyperToM do not appear to have a conceptual deficit 
(i.e. lack of representational abilities), but rather they apply their theory of 
the minds of others in an incorrect or biased way.
METHOD: Hypotheses were tested in two studies with two independent samples: (i) 
a general population sample of 1630 Danish children aged 11-12 years, (ii) a 
population-based sample of 259 Dutch children aged 12-13 years, pertaining to a 
case-control sampling frame of children with auditory verbal hallucinations. 
Multinomial regression analyses were carried out to investigate the associations 
between PE and ToM and HyperToM respectively. Analyses were adjusted for gender 
and proxy measures of general intelligence.
RESULTS: Low ToM score was significantly associated with PE in sample I 
(OR = 1.6 95%CI 1.1-2.3 χ2(4) = 12.42 p = 0.010), but not in sample II (OR = 0.9 
95%CI 0.5-1.8 χ2(3) = 7.13 p = 0.816). HyperToM was significantly associated 
with PE both in sample I (OR = 1.8, 95%CI 1.2-2.7 χ2(3) = 10.11 p = 0.006) and 
II (OR = 4.6, 95%CI 1.3-16.2 χ2(2) = 7.56 p = 0.018). HyperToM was associated 
particularly with paranoid delusions in both sample I (OR = 2.0, 95%CI: 1.1-3.7% 
χ2(4) = 9.93 p = 0.021) and II (OR = 6.2 95%CI: 1.7-23.6% χ2(4) = 9.90 
p = 0.044).
CONCLUSION: Specific alterations in ToM may be associated with specific types of 
psychotic experiences. HyperToM may index risk for developing psychosis and 
paranoid delusions in particular.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0113082
PMCID: PMC4232592
PMID: 25397582 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: INTER-PSY is an outpatient 
clinic for mental health care services, which employs 160 professionals 
(psychiatrist, psychologists and social workers). Els Blijd-Hoogewys, Ph.D., is 
a certified clinical psychologist and psychotherapist working at this centre. 
She is director of the Autism Team. There are no competing interests, financial 
gains, patents, marketed products, etc. involved concerning the topic of this 
article. This does not alter the authors' adherence to PLOS ONE Editorial 
policies and criteria.


1473. Soc Cogn Affect Neurosci. 2015 Jul;10(7):994-1002. doi: 10.1093/scan/nsu145. 
Epub 2014 Nov 14.

Spontaneous default mode network phase-locking moderates performance perceptions 
under stereotype threat.

Forbes CE(1), Leitner JB(2), Duran-Jordan K(2), Magerman AB(2), Schmader T(2), 
Allen JJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Social Neuroscience Laboratory, Department of Psychological and Brain 
Sciences, University of Delaware, Newark, DE, USA, Department of Psychology, 
University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada, and Department of 
Psychology, University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ, USA cforbes@psych.udel.edu.
(2)Social Neuroscience Laboratory, Department of Psychological and Brain 
Sciences, University of Delaware, Newark, DE, USA, Department of Psychology, 
University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada, and Department of 
Psychology, University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ, USA.

This study assessed whether individual differences in self-oriented neural 
processing were associated with performance perceptions of minority students 
under stereotype threat. Resting electroencephalographic activity recorded in 
white and minority participants was used to predict later estimates of task 
errors and self-doubt on a presumed measure of intelligence. We assessed 
spontaneous phase-locking between dipole sources in left lateral parietal cortex 
(LPC), precuneus/posterior cingulate cortex (P/PCC), and medial prefrontal 
cortex (MPFC); three regions of the default mode network (DMN) that are integral 
for self-oriented processing. Results revealed that minorities with greater 
LPC-P/PCC phase-locking in the theta band reported more accurate error 
estimations. All individuals experienced less self-doubt to the extent they 
exhibited greater LPC-MPFC phase-locking in the alpha band but this effect was 
driven by minorities. Minorities also reported more self-doubt to the extent 
they overestimated errors. Findings reveal novel neural moderators of stereotype 
threat effects on subjective experience. Spontaneous synchronization between DMN 
regions may play a role in anticipatory coping mechanisms that buffer 
individuals from stereotype threat.

© The Author (2014). Published by Oxford University Press. For Permissions, 
please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/scan/nsu145
PMCID: PMC4483567
PMID: 25398433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1474. J Learn Disabil. 2016 Sep;49(5):466-83. doi: 10.1177/0022219414558123. Epub 2014 
Nov 14.

Five Describing Factors of Dyslexia.

Tamboer P(1), Vorst HC(2), Oort FJ(3).

Author information:
(1)University of Amsterdam, Netherlands petertamboer@kpnmail.nl.
(2)University of Amsterdam, Netherlands.
(3)University of Amsterdam, Netherlands Research Institute of Child Development 
and Education, Amsterdam, Netherlands.

Two subtypes of dyslexia (phonological, visual) have been under debate in 
various studies. However, the number of symptoms of dyslexia described in the 
literature exceeds the number of subtypes, and underlying relations remain 
unclear. We investigated underlying cognitive features of dyslexia with 
exploratory and confirmatory factor analyses. A sample of 446 students (63 with 
dyslexia) completed a large test battery and a large questionnaire. Five factors 
were found in both the test battery and the questionnaire. These 10 factors 
loaded on 5 latent factors (spelling, phonology, short-term memory, 
rhyme/confusion, and whole-word processing/complexity), which explained 60% of 
total variance. Three analyses supported the validity of these factors. A 
confirmatory factor analysis fit with a solution of five factors (RMSEA = .03). 
Those with dyslexia differed from those without dyslexia on all factors. A 
combination of five factors provided reliable predictions of dyslexia and 
nondyslexia (accuracy >90%). We also looked for factorial deficits on an 
individual level to construct subtypes of dyslexia, but found varying profiles. 
We concluded that a multiple cognitive deficit model of dyslexia is supported, 
whereas the existence of subtypes remains unclear. We discussed the results in 
relation to advanced compensation strategies of students, measures of 
intelligence, and various correlations within groups of those with and without 
dyslexia.

© Hammill Institute on Disabilities 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/0022219414558123
PMID: 25398549 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1475. J Comp Physiol A Neuroethol Sens Neural Behav Physiol. 2015 Feb;201(2):185-94. 
doi: 10.1007/s00359-014-0961-8. Epub 2014 Nov 15.

The nervous and the immune systems: conspicuous physiological analogies.

Sotelo J(1).

Author information:
(1)Neuroimmunology Unit, National Institute of Neurology and Neurosurgery of 
Mexico, Insurgentes Sur 3877, 14269, Mexico, Mexico, jsotelo@unam.mx.

From all biological constituents of complex organisms, two are highly 
sophisticated: the nervous and the immune systems. Interestingly, their goals 
and processes appear to be distant from each other; however, their physiological 
mechanisms keep notorious similarities. Both construct intelligence, learn from 
experience, and keep memory. Their precise responses to innumerable stimuli are 
delicately modulated, and the exposure of the individual to thousands of 
potential challenges integrates their functionality; they use a large part of 
their constituents not in excitatory activities but in the maintenance of 
inhibitory mechanisms to keep silent vast intrinsic potentialities. The nervous 
and immune systems are integrated by a basic cell lineage (neurons and 
lymphocytes, respectively) but each embodies countless cell subgroups with 
different and specialized deeds which, in contrast with cells from other organs, 
labyrinthine molecular arrangements conduct to "one cell, one function". Also, 
nervous and immune actions confer identity that differentiates every individual 
from countless others in the same species. Both systems regulate and potentiate 
their responses aided by countless biological resources of variable intensity: 
hormones, peptides, cytokines, pro-inflammatory molecules, etc. How the immune 
and the nervous systems buildup memory, learning capability, and exquisite 
control of excitatory/inhibitory mechanisms constitute major intellectual 
challenges for contemporary research.

DOI: 10.1007/s00359-014-0961-8
PMID: 25398574 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1476. Autism. 2015 Aug;19(6):736-45. doi: 10.1177/1362361314554920. Epub 2014 Nov 14.

A comparison of WISC-IV and SB-5 intelligence scores in adolescents with autism 
spectrum disorder.

Baum KT(1), Shear PK(2), Howe SR(2), Bishop SL(3).

Author information:
(1)Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center, USA katherine.baum@cchmc.org.
(2)University of Cincinnati, USA.
(3)Weill Cornell Medical College, USA.

In autism spectrum disorders, results of cognitive testing inform clinical care, 
theories of neurodevelopment, and research design. The Wechsler Intelligence 
Scale for Children and the Stanford-Binet are commonly used in autism spectrum 
disorder evaluations and scores from these tests have been shown to be highly 
correlated in typically developing populations. However, they have not been 
compared in individuals with autism spectrum disorder, whose core symptoms can 
make testing challenging, potentially compromising test reliability. We used a 
within-subjects research design to evaluate the convergent validity between the 
Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children, 4th ed., and Stanford-Binet, 5th ed., 
in 40 youth (ages 10-16 years) with autism spectrum disorder. Corresponding 
intelligence scores were highly correlated (r = 0.78 to 0.88), but full-scale 
intelligence quotient (IQ) scores (t(38) = -2.27, p = 0.03, d = -0.16) and 
verbal IQ scores (t(36) = 2.23, p = 0.03; d = 0.19) differed between the two 
tests. Most participants obtained higher full-scale IQ scores on the 
Stanford-Binet, 5th ed., compared to Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children, 
4th ed., with 14% scoring more than one standard deviation higher. In contrast, 
verbal indices were higher on the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children, 4th 
ed., Verbal-nonverbal discrepancy classifications were only consistent for 60% 
of the sample. Comparisons of IQ test scores in autism spectrum disorder and 
other special groups are important, as it cannot necessarily be assumed that 
convergent validity findings in typically developing children and adolescents 
hold true across all pediatric populations.

© The Author(s) 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/1362361314554920
PMID: 25398894 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1477. J Forensic Sci. 2015 Jan;60(1):84-8. doi: 10.1111/1556-4029.12625. Epub 2014 Nov 
14.

Emotional intelligence and criminal behavior.

Megreya AM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Faculty of Arts, Menoufia University, Shebin 
El-Kom, Egypt; Department of Psychological Sciences, College of Education, Qatar 
University, P.O. Box: 2713, Qatar.

A large body of research links criminality to cognitive intelligence and 
personality traits. This study examined the link between emotional intelligence 
(EI) and criminal behavior. One hundred Egyptian adult male offenders who have 
been sentenced for theft, drug dealing or murder and 100 nonoffenders were 
administered the Bar-On Emotional Quotient Inventory (EQ-i). The offenders had 
lower levels of EI than the nonoffenders. In addition, EI varied as a function 
of the types of offenses. Namely, it decreased in magnitude with crime severity 
(lowest for murder, higher for drug dealing, and highest for theft). These 
results converged with the direct/ indirect aggression theory suggesting that 
indirect aggression requires more social intelligence than physical aggression. 
Forensic intervention programs should therefore include EI training, especially 
when violence is involved.

© 2014 American Academy of Forensic Sciences.

DOI: 10.1111/1556-4029.12625
PMID: 25400166 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1478. Appl Neuropsychol Adult. 2015;22(4):252-61. doi: 10.1080/23279095.2014.918543. 
Epub 2014 Nov 17.

Estimating Intelligence in Spanish: Regression Equations With the Word 
Accentuation Test and Demographic Variables in Latin America.

Sierra Sanjurjo N(1), Montañes P, Sierra Matamoros FA, Burin D.

Author information:
(1)a National Scientific and Technical Research Council (CONICET) , Buenos Aires 
, Argentina.

Spanish is the fourth most spoken language in the world, and the majority of 
Spanish speakers have a Latin American origin. Reading aloud infrequently 
accentuated words has been established as a National Adult Reading Test-like 
method to assess premorbid intelligence in Spanish. However, several versions 
have been proposed and validated with small and selected samples, in particular 
geographical conditions, and they seldom derive a formula for IQ estimation with 
the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale (WAIS) Full-Scale IQ (FSIQ). The objective 
of this study was to develop equations to estimate WAIS-Third Edition (WAIS-III) 
FSIQ from the Word Accentuation Test-Revised (WAT-R), demographic variables, and 
their combination within diverse Latin American samples. Two hundred and forty 
participants from Argentina and Colombia, selected according to age and years of 
education strata, were assessed with the WAT-R, the WAIS-III, and a structured 
questionnaire about demographic and medical information. A combined approach 
including place of birth, years of education, and WAT-R provided the best 
equation, explaining 76% of IQ variance. These equations could be useful for 
estimating premorbid IQ in patients with Latin American Spanish as their birth 
language.

DOI: 10.1080/23279095.2014.918543
PMID: 25402323 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1479. Appl Neuropsychol Adult. 2015;22(4):262-70. doi: 10.1080/23279095.2014.920842. 
Epub 2014 Nov 17.

Intelligence and Psychopathy Do Not Influence Malingering.

Demakis G(1), Rimland C, Reeve C, Ward J.

Author information:
(1)a Department of Psychology , University North Carolina at Charlotte , 
Charlotte , North Carolina.

This study examined the influence of psychopathy and intelligence on malingering 
in a simulated malingering design. We hypothesized that participants high in 
both traits would be more adept at evading detection on performance validity 
tests (PVTs). College students (N = 92) were first administered the Wechsler 
Test of Adult Reading, a reading measure that estimates intelligence, and the 
Psychopathic Personality Inventory-Short Form under standard conditions. They 
were then asked to imagine as if they had suffered a concussion a year ago and 
were instructed to fake or exaggerate symptoms in a believable fashion to 
improve their settlement as part of a lawsuit. Participants were subsequently 
administered a brief neuropsychological battery that included the Word Memory 
Test, Rey 15-Item Test with Recognition, Finger-Tapping Test, and Digit Span 
from the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Fourth Edition. Moderated multiple 
regressions with hierarchical entry were conducted. Intelligence, psychopathy, 
and the interaction of intelligence and psychopathy were not related to 
performance on any of the PVTs. In other words, participants who scored higher 
on intelligence and psychopathy did not perform differently on these measures 
compared with other participants. Though a null finding, implications of this 
study are discussed in terms of the broader research and clinical literature on 
malingering.

DOI: 10.1080/23279095.2014.920842
PMID: 25402508 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1480. J Pers Soc Psychol. 2015 Sep;109(3):473-89. doi: 10.1037/pspp0000024. Epub 2014 
Nov 17.

Can personality traits and intelligence compensate for background disadvantage? 
Predicting status attainment in adulthood.

Damian RI(1), Su R(2), Shanahan M(3), Trautwein U(4), Roberts BW(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology.
(2)Department of Psychological Sciences, Purdue University.
(3)Department of Sociology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
(4)Hector Research Institute of Education Sciences and Psychology, University of 
Tübingen.

This study investigated the interplay of family background and individual 
differences, such as personality traits and intelligence (measured in a large 
U.S. representative sample of high school students; N = 81,000) in predicting 
educational attainment, annual income, and occupational prestige 11 years later. 
Specifically, we tested whether individual differences followed 1 of 3 patterns 
in relation to parental socioeconomic status (SES) when predicting attained 
status: (a) the independent effects hypothesis (i.e., individual differences 
predict attainments independent of parental SES level), (b) the resource 
substitution hypothesis (i.e., individual differences are stronger predictors of 
attainments at lower levels of parental SES), and (c) the Matthew effect 
hypothesis (i.e., "the rich get richer"; individual differences are stronger 
predictors of attainments at higher levels of parental SES). We found that 
personality traits and intelligence in adolescence predicted later attained 
status above and beyond parental SES. A standard deviation increase in 
individual differences translated to up to 8 additional months of education, 
$4,233 annually, and more prestigious occupations. Furthermore, although we did 
find some evidence for both the resource substitution and the Matthew effect 
hypotheses, the most robust pattern across all models supported the independent 
effects hypothesis. Intelligence was the exception, the interaction models being 
more robust. Finally, we found that although personality traits may help 
compensate for background disadvantage to a small extent, they do not usually 
lead to a "full catch-up" effect, unlike intelligence. This was the first 
longitudinal study of status attainment to test interactive models of individual 
differences and background factors.

(c) 2015 APA, all rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/pspp0000024
PMCID: PMC4433862
PMID: 25402679 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1481. Nat Neurosci. 2014 Dec;17(12):1767-75. doi: 10.1038/nn.3868. Epub 2014 Nov 17.

Short latency cerebellar modulation of the basal ganglia.

Chen CH(1), Fremont R(1), Arteaga-Bracho EE(1), Khodakhah K(1).

Author information:
(1)Dominick P. Purpura Department of Neuroscience, Albert Einstein College of 
Medicine, Bronx, New York, USA.

The graceful, purposeful motion of our body is an engineering feat that remains 
unparalleled in robotic devices using advanced artificial intelligence. Much of 
the information required for complex movements is generated by the cerebellum 
and the basal ganglia in conjunction with the cortex. Cerebellum and basal 
ganglia have been thought to communicate with each other only through slow, 
multi-synaptic cortical loops, begging the question as to how they coordinate 
their outputs in real time. We found that the cerebellum rapidly modulates the 
activity of the striatum via a disynaptic pathway in mice. Under physiological 
conditions, this short latency pathway was capable of facilitating optimal motor 
control by allowing the basal ganglia to incorporate time-sensitive cerebellar 
information and by guiding the sign of cortico-striatal plasticity. Conversely, 
under pathological condition, this pathway relayed aberrant cerebellar activity 
to the basal ganglia to cause dystonia.

DOI: 10.1038/nn.3868
PMCID: PMC4241171
PMID: 25402853 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1482. Biomed Sci Instrum. 2014;50:186-90.

Nasa astronauts, prosthetics and the manned space program.

Frenger P(1).

Author information:
(1)A Working Hypothesis.

The author has collaborated with NASA astronauts, scientists and engineers since 
2006. Manned deep space missions, beyond the Moons orbit, are being planned in 
this post-Shuttle era. The spacecraft required for longer flights will have 
relatively restricted crew interior volume. To decrease the negative impact of 
these tight quarters, the author has proposed recruiting smaller astronauts 
(abbreviated SAs), persons about one-half the height of current near-Earth 
crewmembers. This includes achondroplastic dwarfs, lower extremity amputees and 
persons with certain height-reducing birth defects such as phocomelia. To 
overcome issues of physical competence, strength and mobility of SAs, the author 
describes using advanced cybernetic prostheses for those with limb amputations 
or deformities, and motorized exoskeletons for the others. Muscle and 
bone-sparing space exercise programs for SAs should be simpler. For example, a 
motorized exoskeleton used for routine duties in space would also provide both 
resistance workouts and passive range of motion conditioning for the astronauts, 
even while resting. Complex personalized artificial intelligence functions may 
be added. These initial suggestions previously presented to NASA offer a 
starting point for deep space manned missions to the asteroid belt, Mars and 
beyond.

PMID: 25405422


1483. PLoS One. 2014 Nov 18;9(11):e112605. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0112605. 
eCollection 2014.

Stunting, poor iron status and parasite infection are significant risk factors 
for lower cognitive performance in Cambodian school-aged children.

Perignon M(1), Fiorentino M(1), Kuong K(2), Burja K(3), Parker M(4), Sisokhom 
S(5), Chamnan C(2), Berger J(1), Wieringa FT(1).

Author information:
(1)Institut de Recherche pour le Développement, Montpellier, France.
(2)Department of Fisheries Post-Harvest Technologies and Quality Control, 
Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries, Phnom Penh, Cambodia.
(3)United Nations World Food Programme, Phnom Penh, Cambodia.
(4)PATH, Seattle, Washington, United States of America.
(5)Department of Psychology, Royal University of Phnom Penh, Phnom Penh, 
Cambodia.

BACKGROUND: Nutrition is one of many factors affecting the cognitive development 
of children. In Cambodia, 55% of children <5 y were anemic and 40% stunted in 
2010. Currently, no data exists on the nutritional status of Cambodian 
school-aged children, or on how malnutrition potentially affects their cognitive 
development.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the anthropometric and micronutrient status (iron, vitamin 
A, zinc, iodine) of Cambodian schoolchildren and their associations with 
cognitive performance.
METHODS: School children aged 6-16 y (n = 2443) from 20 primary schools in 
Cambodia were recruited. Anthropometry, hemoglobin, serum ferritin, transferrin 
receptors, retinol-binding protein and zinc concentrations, inflammation status, 
urinary iodine concentration and parasite infection were measured. 
Socio-economic data were collected in a sub-group of children (n = 616). 
Cognitive performance was assessed using Raven's Colored Progressive Matrices 
(RCPM) and block design and picture completion, two standardized tests from the 
Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children (WISC-III).
RESULTS: The prevalence of anemia, iron, zinc, iodine and vitamin A deficiency 
were 15.7%; 51.2%, 92.8%, 17.3% and 0.7% respectively. The prevalence of 
stunting was 40.0%, including 10.9% of severe stunting. Stunted children scored 
significantly lower than non-stunted children on all tests. In RCPM test, boys 
with iron-deficiency anemia had lower scores than boys with normal iron status 
(-1.46, p<0.05). In picture completion test, children with normal iron status 
tended to score higher than iron-deficient children with anemia (-0.81; 
p = 0.067) or without anemia (-0.49; p = 0.064). Parasite infection was 
associated with an increase in risk of scoring below the median value in block 
design test (OR = 1.62; p<0.05), and with lower scores in other tests, for girls 
only (both p<0.05).
CONCLUSION: Poor cognitive performance of Cambodian school-children was 
multifactorial and significantly associated with long-term (stunting) and 
current nutritional status indicators (iron status), as well as parasite 
infection. A life-cycle approach with programs to improve nutrition in early 
life and at school-age could contribute to optimal cognitive performance.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0112605
PMCID: PMC4236074
PMID: 25405764 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


1484. PLoS One. 2014 Nov 18;9(11):e112386. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0112386. 
eCollection 2014.

The curious anomaly of skewed judgment distributions and systematic error in the 
wisdom of crowds.

Nash UW(1).

Author information:
(1)Strategic Organization Design, University of Southern Denmark, Odense, 
Denmark.

Judgment distributions are often skewed and we know little about why. This paper 
explains the phenomenon of skewed judgment distributions by introducing the 
augmented quincunx (AQ) model of sequential and probabilistic cue categorization 
by neurons of judges. In the process of developing inferences about true values, 
when neurons categorize cues better than chance, and when the particular true 
value is extreme compared to what is typical and anchored upon, then populations 
of judges form skewed judgment distributions with high probability. Moreover, 
the collective error made by these people can be inferred from how skewed their 
judgment distributions are, and in what direction they tilt. This implies not 
just that judgment distributions are shaped by cues, but that judgment 
distributions are cues themselves for the wisdom of crowds. The AQ model also 
predicts that judgment variance correlates positively with collective error, 
thereby challenging what is commonly believed about how diversity and collective 
intelligence relate. Data from 3053 judgment surveys about US macroeconomic 
variables obtained from the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia and the Wall 
Street Journal provide strong support, and implications are discussed with 
reference to three central ideas on collective intelligence, these being 
Galton's conjecture on the distribution of judgments, Muth's rational 
expectations hypothesis, and Page's diversity prediction theorem.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0112386
PMCID: PMC4236075
PMID: 25406078 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The author has declared 
that no competing interests exist.


1485. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2015 Feb;100(2):500-7. doi: 10.1210/jc.2014-2843. Epub 
2014 Nov 19.

Antenatal glucocorticoid treatment and polymorphisms of the glucocorticoid and 
mineralocorticoid receptors are associated with IQ and behavior in young adults 
born very preterm.

van der Voorn B(1), Wit JM, van der Pal SM, Rotteveel J, Finken MJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics (B.v.d.V., J.R., M.J.J.F.), VU University Medical 
Center, 1007 MB Amsterdam, The Netherlands; Department of Pediatrics (J.M.W.), 
Leiden University Medical Center, 2333 ZA Leiden, Netherlands; and TNO, Child 
Health (S.M.v.d.P.), 2316 ZL Leiden, The Netherlands.

CONTEXT: Preterm survivors exhibit neurodevelopmental impairments. Whether this 
association is influenced by antenatal glucocorticoid treatment and 
glucocorticoid sensitivity is unknown.
OBJECTIVES: This study aimed to study the effects of antenatal glucocorticoid 
treatment and glucocorticoid receptor (GR) and mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) 
polymorphisms on behavior and intelligence quotient (IQ).
DESIGN: This study was part of the 19-year follow-up of the Project On Preterm 
and Small-for-gestational-age birth cohort.
SETTING: Multicenter study.
PATIENTS: Three hundred forty-four 19-year-olds born very preterm (gestational 
age < 32 wk), of whom 71 had received betamethasone antenatally.
INTERVENTION: Single antenatal treatment course of betamethasone.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Behavior (Young Adult Self Report and Young Adult 
Behavior Checklist for parents) and IQ (digital Multicultural Capacity 
Test-intermediate level). Data were analyzed by linear regression and presented 
as regression coefficient (95% confidence interval [CI]).
RESULTS: Sex ratio, GR (R23K; N363S) and MR (-2G/C; I180V) genotypes were 
equally distributed between treated and nontreated subjects. Independent of 
treatment, R23K carriers had improved IQ scores (β 9.3; 95% CI, 3.4 to 15.1) and 
a tendency toward more favorable total problem behavior scores (β -8.5; 95% CI, 
-17.3 to 0.2) ; -2G/C CC carriers had poorer IQ scores (β -6.2; 95% CI, -10.5 to 
-1.9); I180V carriers had more favorable internalizing behavior scores (β -2.0; 
95% CI, -3.9 to -0.1). Antenatal glucocorticoid treatment was associated with 
more unfavorable behavior scores, especially internalizing behavior (β 2.4; 95% 
CI, 0.3 to 4.5). Interaction between GR and MR polymorphisms and antenatal 
glucocorticoid treatment was observed, with poorer IQ scores for exposed N363S 
carriers; poorer intellectual subdomain scores for exposed I180V-carriers; more 
favorable total problem behavior scores for exposed R23K carriers.
CONCLUSIONS: Genetic variations in glucocorticoid sensitivity and antenatal 
glucocorticoid treatment are associated with IQ and behavior in young adult 
preterm survivors.

DOI: 10.1210/jc.2014-2843
PMID: 25406795 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1486. Front Hum Neurosci. 2014 Nov 4;8:836. doi: 10.3389/fnhum.2014.00836. eCollection 
2014.

The uncanny return of the race concept.

Heinz A(1), Müller DJ(2), Krach S(3), Cabanis M(4), Kluge UP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, Charité-University Medicine 
Berlin Berlin, Germany.
(2)Centre for Addiction and Mental Health, Department of Psychiatry, University 
of Toronto Toronto, ON, Canada.
(3)Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Philipps-University Marburg 
Marburg, Germany.
(4)Center for Mental Health, Klinikum Stuttgart Stuttgart, Germany.

The aim of this Hypothesis and Theory is to question the recently increasing use 
of the "race" concept in contemporary genetic, psychiatric, neuroscience as well 
as social studies. We discuss "race" and related terms used to assign 
individuals to distinct groups and caution that also concepts such as 
"ethnicity" or "culture" unduly neglect diversity. We suggest that one factor 
contributing to the dangerous nature of the "race" concept is that it is based 
on a mixture of traditional stereotypes about "physiognomy", which are deeply 
imbued by colonial traditions. Furthermore, the social impact of "race 
classifications" will be critically reflected. We then examine current ways to 
apply the term "culture" and caution that while originally derived from a 
fundamentally different background, "culture" is all too often used as a proxy 
for "race", particularly when referring to the population of a certain national 
state or wider region. When used in such contexts, suggesting that all 
inhabitants of a geographical or political unit belong to a certain "culture" 
tends to ignore diversity and to suggest a homogeneity, which consciously or 
unconsciously appears to extend into the realm of biological similarities and 
differences. Finally, we discuss alternative approaches and their respective 
relevance to biological and cultural studies.

DOI: 10.3389/fnhum.2014.00836
PMCID: PMC4219449
PMID: 25408642


1487. Front Psychol. 2014 Nov 4;5:1253. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.01253. eCollection 
2014.

Character strengths and well-being across the life span: data from a 
representative sample of German-speaking adults living in Switzerland.

Martínez-Martí ML(1), Ruch W(1).

Author information:
(1)Swiss National Centre of Competence in Research, LIVES - Overcoming 
Vulnerability: Life Course Perspectives Switzerland ; Section on Personality and 
Assessment, Department of Psychology, University of Zurich Zurich, Switzerland.

Character strengths are positive, morally valued traits of personality. This 
study aims at assessing the relationship between character strengths and 
subjective well-being (i.e., life satisfaction, positive and negative affect) in 
a representative sample of German-speaking adults living in Switzerland (N = 
945). We further test whether this relationship is consistent at different 
stages in life. Results showed that hope, zest, love, social intelligence and 
perseverance yielded the highest positive correlations with life satisfaction. 
Hope, zest, humor, gratitude and love presented the highest positive 
correlations with positive affect. Hope, humor, zest, honesty, and 
open-mindedness had the highest negative correlations with negative affect. When 
examining the relationship between strengths and well-being across age groups, 
in general, hope, zest and humor consistently yielded the highest correlations 
with well-being. Additionally, in the 27-36 years group, strengths that promote 
commitment and affiliation (i.e., kindness and honesty) were among the first 
five positions in the ranking of the relationship between strengths and 
well-being. In the 37-46 years group, in addition to hope, zest and humor, 
strengths that promote the maintenance of areas such as family and work (i.e., 
love, leadership) were among the first five positions in the ranking. Finally, 
in the 47-57 years group, in addition to hope, zest and humor, strengths that 
facilitate integration and a vital involvement with the environment (i.e., 
gratitude, love of learning) were among the first five positions in the ranking. 
This study partially supports previous findings with less representative samples 
on the association between character strengths and well-being, and sheds light 
on the relative importance of some strengths over others for well-being across 
the life span.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.01253
PMCID: PMC4219388
PMID: 25408678


1488. Int J Psychol. 2015 Jun;50(3):240-4. doi: 10.1002/ijop.12111. Epub 2014 Nov 20.

Mediational role of parenting styles in emotional intelligence of parents and 
aggression among adolescents.

Batool SS(1), Bond R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, GC University, Lahore, Pakistan.

The present study was designed to examine the relationship between parents' 
emotional intelligence and adolescents' aggression, through the mediation of 
parenting styles. Two hundred and twenty five undergraduate students (113 boys & 
112 girls; age 17-18 years), from four universities in Pakistan, participated 
with their parents. The Parenting Styles and Dimensions Questionnaire (Robinson, 
Mandleco, Olsen, & Hart, 1995), and the Scale of Emotional Intelligence (Batool 
& Khalid, 2011) were completed by parents. The Aggression Questionnaire (Buss & 
Perry, 1992) was completed by their adolescent offspring. Mediational path 
analysis supported our hypothesised model. Results indicate that emotional 
intelligence of parents indirectly links to aggression among offspring, through 
parenting styles. It was concluded that emotional intelligence training will 
help parents to improve their parenting styles, and it will lower the risk of 
aggression in their children.

© 2014 International Union of Psychological Science.

DOI: 10.1002/ijop.12111
PMID: 25410534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1489. Am J Primatol. 2015 Apr;77(4):418-24. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22357. Epub 2014 Nov 20.

Home range overlap as a driver of intelligence in primates.

Grueter CC(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Anatomy, Physiology and Human Biology, The University of Western 
Australia, Western Australia, Australia.

Various socioecological factors have been suggested to influence cognitive 
capacity in primates, including challenges associated with foraging and dealing 
with the complexities of social life. Alexander [Alexander, 1989]. Evolution of 
the human psyche. In: Mellars P, Stringer C, editors. The human revolution: 
Behavioural and biological perspectives on the origins of modern humans. 
Princeton: Princeton University Press. p 455-513] proposed an integrative model 
for the evolution of human cognitive abilities and complex sociality that 
incorporates competition among coalitions of conspecifics (inter-group conflict) 
as a major selective pressure. However, one of the premises of this model, i.e., 
that when confronted with inter-group conflict selection should favor enhanced 
cognition, has remained empirically untested. Using a comparative approach on 
species data, I aimed to test the prediction that primate species (n = 104) that 
face greater inter-group conflict have higher cognitive abilities (indexed by 
endocranial volume). The degree of inter-group conflict/complexity was 
approximated via the variable home range overlap among groups. I found a 
significant relationship between home range overlap and endocranial volume, even 
after controlling for other predictor variables and covariates such as group 
size and body mass. I conclude that brain size evolution cannot be attributed 
exclusively to social factors such as group size, but likely reflects a variety 
of social and ecological determinants including inter-group conflict which poses 
cognitive demands on monitoring both the wider social milieu as well as spatial 
attributes of the habitat.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22357
PMID: 25412994 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1490. Indian J Pediatr. 2014 Dec;81 Suppl 2:S169-72. doi: 10.1007/s12098-014-1630-1. 
Epub 2014 Nov 22.

Feeding problems among children with autism in a clinical population in India.

Crasta JE(1), Benjamin TE, Suresh AP, Alwinesh MT, Kanniappan G, Padankatti SM, 
Russell PS, Nair MK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Occupational Therapy, Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil 
Nadu, India.

OBJECTIVES: To compare the prevalence and profile of feeding problems (FP) and 
their relationship with sensory processing in children with autism and 
intellectual disability (ID).
METHODS: Children between ages 3 to 10 y with autism (N = 41) and ID (N = 56) 
were recruited and assessed with Brief Autism Mealtime Behavior Inventory, 
Sensory Profile Questionnaire, Childhood Autism Rating Scale and Binet-Kamat 
Scale of Intelligence or Gesell's Developmental Schedule. Assessments were done 
by independent raters. Bivariate and multivariate analyses were used 
appropriately.
RESULTS: The prevalence of FP were 61 and 46.4% among children with autism and 
ID respectively. Feeding problems were severe among children with autism (P 
0.001), especially in young children with autism (P 0.05), and gender was not 
related to FP. Disruptive meal-time behaviors (P 0.001) and food 
over-selectivity (P 0.02) were significantly more among children with autism in 
the bivariate and multivariate analysis. Feeding problems and various dimensions 
of sensory processing were significantly associated after controlling the 
confounders.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings underscore the need for mandatory assessment of FP 
in children with developmental disabilities, and if present, they need to be 
addressed with multimodal-multidisciplinary interventions.

DOI: 10.1007/s12098-014-1630-1
PMID: 25413215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1491. Hum Brain Mapp. 2015 Mar;36(3):1121-37. doi: 10.1002/hbm.22691. Epub 2014 Nov 
21.

Working memory in preterm-born adults: load-dependent compensatory activity of 
the posterior default mode network.

Daamen M(1), Bäuml JG, Scheef L, Sorg C, Busch B, Baumann N, Bartmann P, Wolke 
D, Wohlschläger A, Boecker H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, University Hospital Bonn, Bonn, Germany; Department 
of Neonatology, University Hospital Bonn, Bonn, Germany.

Premature birth is associated with an increased risk of cognitive performance 
deficits that are dependent on working memory (WM) load in childhood. Less clear 
is whether preterm-born adults show similar WM impairments, or develop 
compensatory brain mechanisms that help to overcome prematurity-related 
functional deficits, for example, by a workload-dependent over-recruitment of 
WM-typical areas, and/or engagement of alternative brain networks. In this 
functional magnetic resonance imaging study, 73 adults born very preterm and/or 
with very low birth weight (VP/VLBW) and 73 term-born controls (CON, mean age: 
26.5 years) performed a verbal N-Back paradigm with varying workload (0-back, 
1-back, 2-back). Generally, both groups showed similar performance accuracy and 
task-typical patterns of brain activations (especially in 
fronto-cingulo-parietal, thalamic, and cerebellar areas) and deactivations 
(especially in mesial frontal and parietal aspects of the default mode network 
[DMN]). However, VP/VLBW adults showed significantly stronger deactivations (P < 
0.05, cluster-level corrected) than CON in posterior DMN regions, including 
right ventral precuneus, and right parahippocampal areas (with adjacent 
cerebellar areas), which were specific for the most demanding 2-back condition. 
Consistent with a workload-dependent effect, VP/VLBW adults with stronger 
deactivations (1-back > 2-back) in the parahippocampal/cerebellar cluster also 
presented a greater slowing of response latencies with increasing WM load 
(2-back > 1-back), indicative of higher effort. In conclusion, VP/VLBW adults 
recruited similar anatomical networks as controls during N-back performance, but 
showed an enhanced suppression of posterior DMN regions during higher workload, 
which may reflect a temporary suppression of stimulus-independent thoughts that 
helps to maintain adequate task performance with increasing attentional demands.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/hbm.22691
PMCID: PMC6869743
PMID: 25413496 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1492. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 2015 May;232(10):1717-26. doi: 
10.1007/s00213-014-3806-9. Epub 2014 Nov 22.

Chronic and recreational use of cocaine is associated with a vulnerability to 
semantic interference.

Ruiz MJ(1), Paolieri D, Colzato LS, Bajo MT.

Author information:
(1)Experimental Psychology Department, Mind, Brain and Behavior Research Center 
(CIMCYC), Granada University, Campus Cartuja S/N, 18001, Granada, Spain, 
mjrm@ugr.es.

RATIONALE: Language production requires that speakers effectively recruit 
inhibitory control to successfully produce speech. The use of cocaine is 
associated with impairments in cognitive control processes in the non-verbal 
domain, but the impact of chronic and recreational use of cocaine on these 
processes during language production remains undetermined.
OBJECTIVES: This study aims to observe the possible impairment of inhibitory 
control in language production among chronic and recreational cocaine polydrug 
users.
METHOD: Two experiments were carried out on chronic (experiment 1) and 
recreational (experiment 2) cocaine polydrug users performing a blocked-cycled 
naming task, yielding an index of semantic interference. Participants were 
matched for sex, age, and intelligence (Raven's Standard Progressive Matrices) 
with cocaine-free controls, and their performance was compared on the 
blocked-cycled naming task.
RESULTS: Chronic and recreational users showed significantly larger semantic 
interference effects than cocaine-free controls, thereby indicating a deficit in 
the ability to inhibit interfering information.
CONCLUSION: Evidence indicates a relationship between the consumption of 
cocaine, even at recreational levels, and the inhibitory processes that suppress 
the overactive lexical representations in the semantic context. This deficit may 
be critical in adapting and responding to many real-life situations where an 
efficient self-monitoring system is necessary for the prevention of errors.

DOI: 10.1007/s00213-014-3806-9
PMID: 25413897 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1493. Neuropsychiatr. 2014;28(4):208-17. doi: 10.1007/s40211-014-0125-7. Epub 2014 Nov 
21.

Beating the odds: an approach to the topic of resilience in children and 
adolescents.

Skala K(1), Bruckner T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Child- and Adolescent Psychiatry, Medical University of Vienna, 
Waehringer Guertel 18-20, 1090, Vienna, Austria, katrin.skala@meduniwien.ac.at.

The concept of good mental functioning despite negative influences first arose 
more than a hundred years ago and has received increasing interest during the 
last decades. For a long time, lack of unified definition of concept and terms 
rendered research difficult to compare. Nowadays, consent is reached on a 
definition of resilience as "an individual's ability to properly adapt to stress 
and adversity" and a large number of studies have been performed trying to 
identify factors that render children resilient. Among these, interpersonal 
factors like gender, intelligence, aspects of character and temperament as well 
as genes; factors within the family like a stable and positive relation to an 
adult; and factors of the broader environment like being integrated into the 
community have been those most articulately pointed out by research. Although, 
to date, research on resilience has been extensive, there is still a lack of 
robust, comparative, empirical studies allowing policy formulation for fostering 
resilience in children at risk.

DOI: 10.1007/s40211-014-0125-7
PMID: 25413940 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1494. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2014 Nov 20;55(12):8015-23. doi: 
10.1167/iovs.14-15347.

Simulated hyperopic anisometropia and reading, visual information processing, 
and reading-related eye movement performance in children.

Narayanasamy S(1), Vincent SJ(1), Sampson GP(2), Wood JM(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Optometry and Vision Science, Institute of Health and Biomedical 
Innovation, Queensland University of Technology, Brisbane, Australia.
(2)School of Medicine (Optometry), Faculty of Health, Deakin University, 
Geelong, Australia.

PURPOSE: This study investigated the impact of simulated hyperopic anisometropia 
and sustained near work on performance of academic-related measures in children.
METHODS: Participants included 16 children (mean age: 11.1 ± 0.8 years) with 
minimal refractive error. Academic-related outcome measures included a reading 
test (Neale Analysis of Reading Ability), visual information-processing tests 
(Coding and Symbol Search subtests from the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for 
Children), and a reading-related eye movement test (Developmental Eye Movement 
test). Performance was assessed with and without 0.75 diopters of simulated 
monocular hyperopic defocus (administered in a randomized order), before and 
after 20 minutes of sustained near work. Unilateral hyperopic defocus was 
systematically assigned to either the dominant or nondominant sighting eye to 
evaluate the impact of ocular dominance on any performance decrements.
RESULTS: Simulated hyperopic anisometropia and sustained near work both 
independently reduced performance on all of the outcome measures (P < 0.001). A 
significant interaction was also observed between simulated anisometropia and 
near work (P < 0.05), with the greatest decrement in performance observed during 
simulated anisometropia in combination with sustained near work. Laterality of 
the refractive error simulation (ocular dominance) did not significantly 
influence the outcome measures (P > 0.05). A reduction of up to 12% in 
performance was observed across the range of academic-related measures following 
sustained near work undertaken during the anisometropic simulation.
CONCLUSIONS: Simulated hyperopic anisometropia significantly impaired 
academic-related performance, particularly in combination with sustained near 
work. The impact of uncorrected habitual anisometropia on academic-related 
performance in children requires further investigation.

Copyright 2014 The Association for Research in Vision and Ophthalmology, Inc.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.14-15347
PMID: 25414177 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1495. Front Hum Neurosci. 2014 Nov 5;8:792. doi: 10.3389/fnhum.2014.00792. eCollection 
2014.

A face for all seasons: Searching for context-specific leadership traits and 
discovering a general preference for perceived health.

Spisak BR(1), Blaker NM(2), Lefevre CE(3), Moore FR(4), Krebbers KF(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Management and Organization, VU University Amsterdam Amsterdam, 
Netherlands.
(2)Department of Social and Organizational Psychology, VU University Amsterdam 
Amsterdam, Netherlands.
(3)Centre for Decision Research, Leeds University Business School, University of 
Leeds Leeds, UK.
(4)School of Psychology, University of Dundee Dundee, UK.

Previous research indicates that followers tend to contingently match particular 
leader qualities to evolutionarily consistent situations requiring collective 
action (i.e., context-specific cognitive leadership prototypes) and information 
processing undergoes categorization which ranks certain qualities as first-order 
context-general and others as second-order context-specific. To further 
investigate this contingent categorization phenomenon we examined the 
"attractiveness halo"-a first-order facial cue which significantly biases 
leadership preferences. While controlling for facial attractiveness, we 
independently manipulated the underlying facial cues of health and intelligence 
and then primed participants with four distinct organizational dynamics 
requiring leadership (i.e., competition vs. cooperation between groups and 
exploratory change vs. stable exploitation). It was expected that the differing 
requirements of the four dynamics would contingently select for relatively 
healthier- or intelligent-looking leaders. We found perceived facial 
intelligence to be a second-order context-specific trait-for instance, in times 
requiring a leader to address between-group cooperation-whereas perceived health 
is significantly preferred across all contexts (i.e., a first-order trait). The 
results also indicate that facial health positively affects perceived 
masculinity while facial intelligence negatively affects perceived masculinity, 
which may partially explain leader choice in some of the environmental contexts. 
The limitations and a number of implications regarding leadership biases are 
discussed.

DOI: 10.3389/fnhum.2014.00792
PMCID: PMC4221639
PMID: 25414653


1496. Nurs Midwifery Stud. 2014 Apr;3(1):e11977. doi: 10.17795/nmsjournal11977. Epub 
2014 Apr 17.

Evaluation of emotional intelligence and job satisfaction in employees of kashan 
hospitals.

Ghoreishi FS(1), Zahirrodine AR(2), Assarian F(1), Moosavi SG(3), Zare Zadeh 
Mehrizi M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Kashan University of Medical Sciences, Kashan, IR 
Iran.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, IR Iran.
(3)Department of Biostatistics and Public Health, Kashan University of Medical 
Sciences, Kashan, IR Iran.

BACKGROUND: Job satisfaction and emotional intelligence are two important 
variables in organizational behavioral studies, and are key factors in promoting 
the efficiency of organizations.
OBJECTIVES: The present study was conducted in order to determine the job 
satisfaction and emotional intelligence of employees of Kashan hospitals in 
2011.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This cross-sectional study was performed on 121 employees 
of Kashan hospitals who were selected using random stratified method. In this 
study, Bar-on emotional intelligence and job satisfaction questionnaires were 
used. The data were analyzed using statistical methods such as odds ratio, 
Chi-square and Fisher's exact test.
RESULTS: The majority of employees (76%) had moderate emotional intelligence 
while 88.2% of them had moderate job satisfaction. In this study, there were no 
significant relations between emotional intelligence and variables such as sex, 
education, and marital and job status (P > 0.05) but significant relations were 
found between the age and emotional intelligence (P = 0.01). Furthermore, there 
was no significant relation between job satisfaction and demographic variables. 
Moreover, no significant relation was found between the emotional intelligence 
and job satisfaction (P > 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: As the majority of the staff had average level of job satisfaction 
and emotional intelligence and others were lower than average, it seems 
necessary for authorities to explore the reasons for job dissatisfaction to 
prevent job burnout, depression and developing a sense of helplessness in the 
staff. It is also recommended to hold educational workshops for the staff 
especially who are younger than 40 years to promote their emotional 
intelligence.

DOI: 10.17795/nmsjournal11977
PMCID: PMC4228525
PMID: 25414889


1497. Neuropsychiatr Dis Treat. 2014 Nov 10;10:2087-95. doi: 10.2147/NDT.S72491. 
eCollection 2014.

Iron deficiency and cognitive functions.

Jáuregui-Lobera I(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutrition and Bromatology, Pablo de Olavide University, 
Seville, Spain.

Micronutrient deficiencies, especially those related to iodine and iron, are 
linked to different cognitive impairments, as well as to potential long-term 
behavioral changes. Among the cognitive impairments caused by iron deficiency, 
those referring to attention span, intelligence, and sensory perception 
functions are mainly cited, as well as those associated with emotions and 
behavior, often directly related to the presence of iron deficiency anemia. In 
addition, iron deficiency without anemia may cause cognitive disturbances. At 
present, the prevalence of iron deficiency and iron deficiency anemia is 2%-6% 
among European children. Given the importance of iron deficiency relative to 
proper cognitive development and the alterations that can persist through 
adulthood as a result of this deficiency, the objective of this study was to 
review the current state of knowledge about this health problem. The relevance 
of iron deficiency and iron deficiency anemia, the distinction between the 
cognitive consequences of iron deficiency and those affecting specifically 
cognitive development, and the debate about the utility of iron supplements are 
the most relevant and controversial topics. Despite there being methodological 
differences among studies, there is some evidence that iron supplementation 
improves cognitive functions. Nevertheless, this must be confirmed by means of 
adequate follow-up studies among different groups.

DOI: 10.2147/NDT.S72491
PMCID: PMC4235202
PMID: 25419131


1498. Cartogr Geogr Inf Sci. 2014;41(2):115-124. doi: 10.1080/15230406.2013.874200.

Spatial Collective Intelligence? credibility, accuracy, and Volunteered 
Geographic Information.

Spielman SE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Geography, University of Colorado, 110 Guggenheim Hall/260 UCB, 
Boulder, CO, USA.

Collective intelligence is the idea that under the right circumstances 
collections of individuals are smarter than even the smartest individuals in the 
group (Suroweiki 2004), that is a group has an "intelligence" that is 
independent of the intelligence of its members. The ideology of collective 
intelligence undergirds much of the enthusiasm about the use of "volunteered" or 
crowdsourced geographic information. Literature from a variety of fields makes 
clear that not all groups possess collective intelligence, this paper identifies 
four pre-conditions for the emergence of collective intelligence and then 
examine the extent to which collectively generated mapping systems satisfy these 
conditions. However, the "intelligence" collectively generated maps is hard to 
assess because there are two difficult to reconcile perspectives on map quality- 
the credibility perspective and the accuracy perspective. Much of the current 
literature on user generated maps focuses on assessing the quality of individual 
contributions. However, because user generated maps are complex social systems 
and because the quality of a contribution is difficult to assess this strategy 
may not yield an "intelligent" end product. The existing literature on 
collective intelligence suggests that the structure of groups more important 
that the intelligence of group members. Applying this idea to user generated 
suggests that systems should be designed to foster conditions known to produce 
collective intelligence rather than privileging particular 
contributions/contributors. The paper concludes with some design recommendations 
and by considering the implications of collectively generated maps for both 
expert knowledge and traditional state sponsored mapping programs.

DOI: 10.1080/15230406.2013.874200
PMCID: PMC4238431
PMID: 25419184


1499. PLoS One. 2014 Nov 24;9(11):e112987. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0112987. 
eCollection 2014.

A novel hybrid classification model of genetic algorithms, modified k-Nearest 
Neighbor and developed backpropagation neural network.

Salari N(1), Shohaimi S(2), Najafi F(3), Nallappan M(2), Karishnarajah I(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Faculty of Science, University Putra Malaysia, 
Serdang, Selangor, Malaysia; Department of Biostatistics and Epidemiology, 
School of Public Health, Kermanshah University of Medical Sciences, Kermanshah, 
Iran.
(2)Department of Biology, Faculty of Science, University Putra Malaysia, 
Serdang, Selangor, Malaysia.
(3)Department of Biostatistics and Epidemiology, School of Public Health, 
Kermanshah University of Medical Sciences, Kermanshah, Iran.
(4)Department of Mathematics, Faculty of Science, University Putra Malaysia, 
Serdang, Selangor, Malaysia.

Among numerous artificial intelligence approaches, k-Nearest Neighbor 
algorithms, genetic algorithms, and artificial neural networks are considered as 
the most common and effective methods in classification problems in numerous 
studies. In the present study, the results of the implementation of a novel 
hybrid feature selection-classification model using the above mentioned methods 
are presented. The purpose is benefitting from the synergies obtained from 
combining these technologies for the development of classification models. Such 
a combination creates an opportunity to invest in the strength of each 
algorithm, and is an approach to make up for their deficiencies. To develop 
proposed model, with the aim of obtaining the best array of features, first, 
feature ranking techniques such as the Fisher's discriminant ratio and class 
separability criteria were used to prioritize features. Second, the obtained 
results that included arrays of the top-ranked features were used as the initial 
population of a genetic algorithm to produce optimum arrays of features. Third, 
using a modified k-Nearest Neighbor method as well as an improved method of 
backpropagation neural networks, the classification process was advanced based 
on optimum arrays of the features selected by genetic algorithms. The 
performance of the proposed model was compared with thirteen well-known 
classification models based on seven datasets. Furthermore, the statistical 
analysis was performed using the Friedman test followed by post-hoc tests. The 
experimental findings indicated that the novel proposed hybrid model resulted in 
significantly better classification performance compared with all 13 
classification methods. Finally, the performance results of the proposed model 
was benchmarked against the best ones reported as the state-of-the-art 
classifiers in terms of classification accuracy for the same data sets. The 
substantial findings of the comprehensive comparative study revealed that 
performance of the proposed model in terms of classification accuracy is 
desirable, promising, and competitive to the existing state-of-the-art 
classification models.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0112987
PMCID: PMC4242540
PMID: 25419659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


1500. PLoS One. 2014 Nov 24;9(11):e113874. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0113874. 
eCollection 2014.

Genetic pleiotropy explains associations between musical auditory discrimination 
and intelligence.

Mosing MA(1), Pedersen NL(2), Madison G(3), Ullén F(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
(2)Department of Medical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Karolinska Institutet, 
Stockholm, Sweden.
(3)Department of Psychology, Umeå University, Umeå, Sweden.

Musical aptitude is commonly measured using tasks that involve discrimination of 
different types of musical auditory stimuli. Performance on such different 
discrimination tasks correlates positively with each other and with 
intelligence. However, no study to date has explored these associations using a 
genetically informative sample to estimate underlying genetic and environmental 
influences. In the present study, a large sample of Swedish twins (N = 10,500) 
was used to investigate the genetic architecture of the associations between 
intelligence and performance on three musical auditory discrimination tasks 
(rhythm, melody and pitch). Phenotypic correlations between the tasks ranged 
between 0.23 and 0.42 (Pearson r values). Genetic modelling showed that the 
covariation between the variables could be explained by shared genetic 
influences. Neither shared, nor non-shared environment had a significant effect 
on the associations. Good fit was obtained with a two-factor model where one 
underlying shared genetic factor explained all the covariation between the 
musical discrimination tasks and IQ, and a second genetic factor explained 
variance exclusively shared among the discrimination tasks. The results suggest 
that positive correlations among musical aptitudes result from both genes with 
broad effects on cognition, and genes with potentially more specific influences 
on auditory functions.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0113874
PMCID: PMC4242709
PMID: 25419664 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


1501. J Exp Psychol Gen. 2014 Dec;143(6):2067-73. doi: 10.1037/xge0000026.

Cognitive control under social influence in baboons.

Huguet P(1), Barbet I(2), Belletier C(1), Monteil JM(2), Fagot J(1).

Author information:
(1)Aix Marseille Université and Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique, 
Laboratoire de Psychologie Cognitive & Fédéra- tion de Recherche 3C.
(2)Conservatoire National des Arts et Métiers.

From cockroaches to human beings, the presence of other members of the same 
species typically facilitates dominant (habitual/well-learned) responses 
regardless of their contextual relevance. This social facilitation requires 
special attention in animal species such as primates, given their evolved 
cognitive control mechanisms. Here we tested baboons who freely engaged in 
(computer-based) conflict response tasks requiring cognitive control for 
successful performance, and discovered that social presence does not only 
enhance dominant responses but also consumes cognitive control resources. Under 
social presence, the baboons experienced greater cognitive conflicts, were less 
able to inhibit a learned action in favor of a new one, and were also less able 
to take advantage of previous experience with response conflict, compared with 
isolation. These findings explain why inappropriate behaviors are not easily 
suppressed in primates acting in social contexts, and indicate a greater demand 
for cognitive control in social groups. This extra demand might represent a 
major evolutionary drive of human intelligence.

PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/xge0000026
PMID: 25420119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1502. Rinsho Shinkeigaku. 2014;54(11):892-6. doi: 10.5692/clinicalneurol.54.892.

[Partial deficiency of hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase presenting 
seizure and psychomotor retardation: a case report].

[Article in Japanese]

Yoshimoto T(1), Himeno T, Takeshima S, Neshige S, Yamada K, Yamada Y, Kuriyama 
M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Brain Attack Center Ota Memorial Hospital.

An 18-year-old man was admitted to our hospital because of convulsive seizure. 
He had psychomotor retardation and intellectual disability from childhood, and 
had been diagnosed with attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder when he was 12 
years old. He showed mental deficit (Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Revised: 
IQ 52) and tendon hyperreflexia without pathological reflexes, but no 
involuntary movements or self-injurious behavior. As he had hyperuricemia, we 
measured the activity of hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase (HPRT) 
and adenine phosphoribosyltransferase (APRT) in erythrocytes. While HPRT 
activity had decreased to 57.4% of normal, APRT activity had increased to 140.5% 
of normal. Genetic analysis revealed a single-base substitution (c.179A>G) in 
the third exon of the HPRT gene, which resulted in a missense mutation (p.H60R) 
of the 60th amino acid. His mother was a heterozygous carrier of this mutation 
and presented partial deficiency (73.3%) of HPRT activity. Lesch-Nyhan disease 
is a neurogenetic disorder caused by complete deficiency of the enzyme HPRT. 
Variant forms of the disease caused by partial deficiency of HPRT do not show 
the typical clinical features, or show only mild neurological manifestations; 
these diseases are jointly referred to as HPRT-related neurological disease 
(HRND). The present case was unique in that the patient diagnosed as having HRND 
showed relatively higher HPRT residual activity in erythrocytes.

DOI: 10.5692/clinicalneurol.54.892
PMID: 25420563 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1503. Mol Psychiatry. 2015 Nov;20(11):1366-72. doi: 10.1038/mp.2014.150. Epub 2014 Nov 
25.

The phenotypic manifestations of rare genic CNVs in autism spectrum disorder.

Merikangas AK(1), Segurado R(2), Heron EA(1), Anney RJ(1), Paterson AD(3), Cook 
EH(4), Pinto D(5), Scherer SW(6), Szatmari P(7), Gill M(1), Corvin AP(1), 
Gallagher L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Neuropsychiatric Genetics Research Group, Institute 
of Molecular Medicine, Trinity College Dublin, Dublin 8, Ireland.
(2)Centre for Support and Training in Analysis and Research, University College 
Dublin, Dublin 4, Ireland.
(3)Program in Genetics and Genome Biology, Hospital for Sick Children, Division 
of Biostatistics, Dalla Lana School of Public Health, University of Toronto, 
Toronto, ON, Canada.
(4)Institute for Juvenile Research, Department of Psychiatry, University of 
Illinois at Chicago, Chicago, IL, USA.
(5)Departments of Psychiatry, and Genetics and Genomic Sciences, Seaver Autism 
Center, The Mindich Child Health & Development Institute, Icahn School of 
Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(6)Department of Molecular Genetics, The Centre for Applied Genomics and Program 
in Genetics and Genomic Biology, The Hospital for Sick Children, University of 
Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(7)The Division of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Centre for Addiction and 
Mental Health, The Hospital for Sick Children, University of Toronto, Toronto, 
ON, Canada.

Significant evidence exists for the association between copy number variants 
(CNVs) and Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD); however, most of this work has 
focused solely on the diagnosis of ASD. There is limited understanding of the 
impact of CNVs on the 'sub-phenotypes' of ASD. The objective of this paper is to 
evaluate associations between CNVs in differentially brain expressed (DBE) genes 
or genes previously implicated in ASD/intellectual disability (ASD/ID) and 
specific sub-phenotypes of ASD. The sample consisted of 1590 cases of European 
ancestry from the Autism Genome Project (AGP) with a diagnosis of an ASD and at 
least one rare CNV impacting any gene and a core set of phenotypic measures, 
including symptom severity, language impairments, seizures, gait disturbances, 
intelligence quotient (IQ) and adaptive function, as well as paternal and 
maternal age. Classification analyses using a non-parametric recursive 
partitioning method (random forests) were employed to define sets of phenotypic 
characteristics that best classify the CNV-defined groups. There was substantial 
variation in the classification accuracy of the two sets of genes. The best 
variables for classification were verbal IQ for the ASD/ID genes, paternal age 
at birth for the DBE genes and adaptive function for de novo CNVs. CNVs in the 
ASD/ID list were primarily associated with communication and language domains, 
whereas CNVs in DBE genes were related to broader manifestations of adaptive 
function. To our knowledge, this is the first study to examine the associations 
between sub-phenotypes and CNVs genome-wide in ASD. This work highlights the 
importance of examining the diverse sub-phenotypic manifestations of CNVs in 
ASD, including the specific features, comorbid conditions and clinical 
correlates of ASD that comprise underlying characteristics of the disorder.

DOI: 10.1038/mp.2014.150
PMCID: PMC4759095
PMID: 25421404 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1504. Ophthalmic Physiol Opt. 2015 Jan;35(1):8-18. doi: 10.1111/opo.12165. Epub 2014 
Nov 25.

Simulated astigmatism impairs academic-related performance in children.

Narayanasamy S(1), Vincent SJ, Sampson GP, Wood JM.

Author information:
(1)School of Optometry and Vision Science, Institute of Health and Biomedical 
Innovation, Queensland University of Technology, Brisbane, Australia.

PURPOSE: Astigmatism is an important refractive condition in children. However, 
the functional impact of uncorrected astigmatism in this population is not well 
established, particularly with regard to academic performance. This study 
investigated the impact of simulated bilateral astigmatism on academic-related 
tasks before and after sustained near work in children.
METHODS: Twenty visually normal children (mean age: 10.8 ± 0.7 years; six males 
and 14 females) completed a range of standardised academic-related tests with 
and without 1.50 D of simulated bilateral astigmatism (with both 
academic-related tests and the visual condition administered in a randomised 
order). The simulated astigmatism was induced using a positive cylindrical lens 
while maintaining a plano spherical equivalent. Performance was assessed before 
and after 20 min of sustained near work, during two separate testing sessions. 
Academic-related measures included a standardised reading test (the Neale 
Analysis of Reading Ability), visual information processing tests (Coding and 
Symbol Search subtests from the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children) and a 
reading-related eye movement test (the Developmental Eye Movement test). Each 
participant was systematically assigned either with-the-rule (WTR, axis 180°) or 
against-the-rule (ATR, axis 90°) simulated astigmatism to evaluate the influence 
of axis orientation on any decrements in performance.
RESULTS: Reading, visual information processing and reading-related eye movement 
performance were all significantly impaired by both simulated bilateral 
astigmatism (p < 0.001) and sustained near work (p < 0.001), however, there was 
no significant interaction between these factors (p > 0.05). Simulated 
astigmatism led to a reduction of between 5% and 12% in performance across the 
academic-related outcome measures, but there was no significant effect of the 
axis (WTR or ATR) of astigmatism (p > 0.05).
CONCLUSION: Simulated bilateral astigmatism impaired children's performance on a 
range of academic-related outcome measures irrespective of the orientation of 
the astigmatism. These findings have implications for the clinical management of 
non-amblyogenic levels of astigmatism in relation to academic performance in 
children. Correction of low to moderate levels of astigmatism may improve the 
functional performance of children in the classroom.

© 2014 The Authors Ophthalmic & Physiological Optics © 2014 The College of 
Optometrists.

DOI: 10.1111/opo.12165
PMID: 25424167 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1505. Orphanet J Rare Dis. 2014 Nov 26;9:186. doi: 10.1186/s13023-014-0186-5.

Comparisons of intellectual capacities between mild and classic adult-onset 
phenotypes of myotonic dystrophy type 1 (DM1).

Jean S(1), Richer L(2), Laberge L(3)(4)(5), Mathieu J(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Clinique des maladies neuromusculaires, Centre de réadaptation en déficience 
physique Le Parcours, Centre de santé et de services sociaux de Jonquière, 2230, 
rue de l'Hôpital, C.P. 1200, Jonquière, Québec, G7X 7X2, Canada. 
stephane.jean.csssc@ssss.gouv.qc.ca.
(2)Département des sciences de la santé, Université du Québec à Chicoutimi, 555, 
boul. de l'Université, Chicoutimi, Québec, G7H 2B1, Canada. 
louis_richer@uqac.ca.
(3)Département des sciences de la santé, Université du Québec à Chicoutimi, 555, 
boul. de l'Université, Chicoutimi, Québec, G7H 2B1, Canada. luc_laberge@uqac.ca.
(4)ÉCOBES - Recherche et transfert, Cégep de Jonquière, Québec, Canada. 
luc_laberge@uqac.ca.
(5)Faculté de médecine et des sciences de la santé, Université de Sherbrooke, 
Québec, Canada. luc_laberge@uqac.ca.
(6)Clinique des maladies neuromusculaires, Centre de réadaptation en déficience 
physique Le Parcours, Centre de santé et de services sociaux de Jonquière, 2230, 
rue de l'Hôpital, C.P. 1200, Jonquière, Québec, G7X 7X2, Canada. 
j.mathieu@usherbrooke.ca.
(7)Faculté de médecine et des sciences de la santé, Université de Sherbrooke, 
Québec, Canada. j.mathieu@usherbrooke.ca.

BACKGROUND: Myotonic dystrophy type 1 (DM1) is an autosomal dominant genetic 
multisystem disorder and the commonest adult-onset form of muscular dystrophy. 
DM1 results from the expansion of an unstable trinucleotide 
cytosine-thymine-guanine (CTG) repeat mutation. CTG repeats in DM1 patients can 
range from 50 to several thousands, with a tendency toward increased repeats 
with successive generations (anticipation). Associated findings can include 
involvements in almost every systems, including the brain, and cognitive 
abnormalities occur in the large majority of patients. The objectives are to 
describe and compare the intellectual abilities of a large sample of DM1 
patients with mild and classic adult-onset phenotypes, to estimate the validity 
of the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Revised (WAIS-R) in DM1 patients with 
muscular weakness, and to appraise the relationship of intelligence quotient 
(IQ) to CTG repeat length, age at onset of symptoms, and disease duration.
METHODS: A seven-subtest WAIS-R was administered to 37 mild and 151 classic 
adult-onset DM1 patients to measure their Full-Scale (FSIQ), Verbal (VIQ) and 
Performance IQ (PIQ). To control for potential bias due to muscular weakness, 
Standard Progressive Matrices (SPM), a motor-independent test of intelligence, 
were also completed.
RESULTS: Total mean FSIQ was 82.6 corresponding to low average IQ, and 82% were 
below an average intelligence. Mild DM1 patients had a higher mean FSIQ (U=88.7 
vs 81.1, p<0.001), VIQ (U=87.8 vs 82.3, p=0.001), and PIQ (U=94.8 vs 83.6, 
p<0.001) than classic adult-onset DM1 patients. In both mild and classic 
adult-onset patients, all subtests mean scaled scores were below the normative 
sample mean. FSIQ also strongly correlate with SPM (r s =0.67, p<0.001), 
indicating that low intelligence scores are not a consequence of motor 
impairment. FSIQ scores decreased with both the increase of (CTG)n (r s =-0.41, 
p<0.001) and disease duration (r s =-0.26, p=0.003).
CONCLUSIONS: Results show that intellectual impairment is an extremely common 
and important feature in DM1, not only among the classic adult-onset patients 
but also among the least severe forms of DM1, with low IQ scores compared to 
general reference population. Health care providers involved in the follow-up of 
these patients should be aware of their intellectual capacities and should adapt 
their interventions accordingly.

CONTEXTE: La dystrophie myotonique de type 1 (DM1) est une maladie génétique à 
transmission autosomique dominante et la dystrophie musculaire la plus 
fréquemment diagnostiquée chez l’adulte. Elle résulte d’une répétition instable 
d’un trinucléotide cytosine-thymine-guanine (CTG). Le nombre de CTG peut varier 
de 50 à plusieurs milliers. Elle affecte pratiquement tous les systèmes, 
incluant le cerveau, et des déficits cognitifs surviennent chez une majorité de 
patients. Les objectifs sont de décrire et comparer les capacités 
intellectuelles d’un large échantillon de patients atteints de la forme légère 
et adulte-classique de DM1, d’estimer la validité de l’Échelle d’intelligence de 
Wechsler-Révisée (WAIS-R) chez des patients présentant une faiblesse musculaire, 
et d’évaluer la relation entre le quotient intellectuel (QI) et le nombre de 
CTG, l’âge d’apparition des symptômes et la durée de la maladie.
MÉTHODES: Un WAIS-R à sept sous-tests fut administré à 37 patients légers et 151 
adultes-classiques pour estimer leur QI global, Verbal et Performance. Afin de 
contrôler des biais potentiels liés à la faiblesse musculaire, les Matrices de 
Raven ont également été complétées.
RÉSULTATS: Au total, le QI global moyen était de 82.6, correspondant à un QI 
situé dans la moyenne faible, et 82% a obtenu un QI global inférieur à une 
intelligence moyenne. Les patients légers ont obtenu des résultats moyens 
supérieurs aux patients adultes-classiques au QI global (U = 88.7 vs 81.1, 
p < 0.001), Verbal (U = 87.8 vs 82.3, p = 0.001) et Performance (U = 94.8 vs 
83.6, p < 0.001). Pour les deux groupes, les scores moyens aux sous-tests 
étaient tous situés sous la moyenne normative. Le QI global corrèle fortement 
avec les Matrices (rs = 0.67, p < 0.001), ce qui montre que l’atteinte 
musculaire n’influence pas la mesure de l’intelligence. Le QI global diminue 
avec l’augmentation des CTG (rs = -0.41, p < 0.001) et la durée de la maladie 
(rs = -0.26, p = 0.003).
CONCLUSIONS: L’altération du fonctionnement intellectuel marquée par de faibles 
QI est une caractéristique importante et extrêmement fréquente dans la DM1, non 
seulement dans la forme adulte-classique, mais également dans la forme moins 
sévère. Les professionnels de la santé impliqués dans le suivi de ces patients 
devraient tenir compte de leurs capacités intellectuelles et adapter leurs 
interventions en conséquence.

DOI: 10.1186/s13023-014-0186-5
PMCID: PMC4247010
PMID: 25424323 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1506. Am J Med Genet A. 2015 Jan;167A(1):174-9. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.a.36710. Epub 2014 
Nov 25.

Phenotypes of AKT3 deletion: a case report and literature review.

Gai D(1), Haan E, Scholar M, Nicholl J, Yu S.

Author information:
(1)Royal Melbourne Hospital, Parkville, Victoria, Australia.

AKT3 (v-akt murine thymoma viral oncogene homolog 3) is located at chromosome 
1q44 and encodes a 479 amino acid protein, a member of the protein kinase B 
(PKB) family. This gene is frequently involved in 1q44 deletion syndrome in 
patients with microcephaly, intellectual disability, and dysmorphic features. 
Phenotype and genotype studies of patients with 1q44 deletion syndrome have 
suggested that deletion of the AKT3 gene is responsible for the microcephaly in 
these patients. However, the phenotype of pure AKT3 deletion has not been 
studied. We report on a 1q44 deletion involving only AKT3 in a boy and his 
father. The boy has microcephaly, hypotonia, feeding difficulties, developmental 
delay, and minor dysmorphic features. His father does not have microcephaly and 
is of normal intelligence. We also analyzed the available information on the 
phenotypes of 13 individuals carrying a pure AKT3 gene deletion identified 
through literature review and database search. To our knowledge, this is the 
first report of a paternally inherited pure AKT3 deletion with full clinical 
description. This is also the first report to suggest that (1) AKT3 deletion is 
associated with microcephaly and intellectual disability with incomplete 
penetrance; (2) a pure AKT3 deletion is likely to be inherited in contrast to 
the larger 1q44 deletions, which are mostly de novo and (3) there seems to be no 
consistent or characteristic dysmorphism associated with pure AKT3 deletion.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.a.36710
PMID: 25424989 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1507. Int J Geriatr Psychiatry. 2015 Sep;30(9):919-26. doi: 10.1002/gps.4235. Epub 
2014 Nov 26.

Low amyloid-β deposition correlates with high education in cognitively normal 
older adults: a pilot study.

Yasuno F(1)(2), Kazui H(3), Morita N(4), Kajimoto K(5), Ihara M(5), Taguchi 
A(5)(6), Yamamoto A(2), Matsuoka K(1), Kosaka J(1), Kudo T(7), Iida H(2), 
Kishimoto T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Nara Medical University, Kashihara, Japan.
(2)Investigative Radiology, National Cerebral and Cardiovascular Center, Suita, 
Japan.
(3)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Osaka University Medical School, Suita, Japan.
(4)Department of Radiology, National Cerebral and Cardiovascular Center, Suita, 
Japan.
(5)Department of Neurology, National Cerebral and Cardiovascular Center, Suita, 
Japan.
(6)Institute of Biomedical Research and Innovation, Foundation for Biomedical 
Research and Innovation, Kobe, Japan.
(7)Department of Psychiatry, Osaka University Health Care Center, Suita, Japan.

OBJECTIVE: Several epidemiological studies have found a lower incidence of 
Alzheimer's disease in highly educated populations, but the protective mechanism 
of education against the disease is still unclear. Our objective was to 
investigate the association between education and (11) C-labeled Pittsburgh 
Compound B (PIB) uptake with positron emission tomography in participants with 
normal cognitive ability.
METHODS: We performed (11) C-labeled PIB positron emission tomography and 
neuropsychological testing in 30 cognitively normal older participants. Of the 
participants, 16 had a period of education less than 12 years (low-education 
group) and 14 had more than 13 years (high-education group). Amyloid-β 
deposition was quantified by binding potential (BPND ) in several brain regions 
and was compared between the groups with different education levels.
RESULTS: We found significantly higher cortical PIB-BPND in the cognitively 
normal participants with low education compared with the ones with high 
education. None of the brain regions in low-education group showed significantly 
lower BPND values. This finding was not affected by the inclusion of possible 
confounding variables such as age, sex, and general intelligence. Our findings 
indicated a reduced amyloid pathology in highly educated, cognitively normal, 
participants.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings lead to the proposal that early-life education has a 
negative association with Alzheimer's disease pathology. This proposal is not in 
opposition to the brain reserve hypothesis. People with more education might be 
prone to a greater inhibitory effect against amyloid-β deposition before the 
preclinical stage. At the same time, they have a greater reserve capacity, and 
greater pathological changes are required for dementia to manifest.

Copyright © 2014 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/gps.4235
PMID: 25425062 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1508. Am J Med Genet A. 2015 Jan;167A(1):169-73. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.a.36730. Epub 2014 
Nov 25.

A 12q24.31 interstitial deletion in an adult male with MODY3: neuropsychiatric 
and neuropsychological characteristics.

Verhoeven WM(1), Egger JI, van den Bergh JP, van Beek R, Kleefstra T, de Leeuw 
N.

Author information:
(1)Vincent van Gogh Institute for Psychiatry, Centre of Excellence for 
Neuropsychiatry, Venray, The Netherlands; Erasmus University Medical Centre, 
Department of Psychiatry, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

A 39-year-old male patient with a disharmonic intelligence profile and juvenile 
diabetes mellitus is described. At 14 months of age, minor facial dysmorphisms 
were noticed. He had delayed motor development, obesity at early age, and a 
diagnosis of insulin-dependent diabetes at the age of 10 years. He successfully 
completed secondary education and has been engaged in unskilled work activities, 
living independently. Upon examination, no psychiatric symptoms were present and 
his neuropsychological profile showed normal, although disharmonic, intellectual 
capacities and suboptimal social cognition. Genome wide array analysis 
identified an interstitial 12q24.31 deletion of 1.67 Mb encompassing hepatocyte 
nuclear factor-1-alpha gene (HNF1A), supporting a diagnosis of maturity-onset 
diabetes of the young. Results are discussed in relation to the few identified 
or published overlapping deletions. This is the first patient with normal 
intelligence in whom the presence of subtle facial dysmorphisms were decisive 
for introducing genetic analysis that, in turn, disclosed a rare form of 
diabetes necessitating modifications in treatment regimen. Clinicians, including 
those involved in psychiatry, should be aware of the diagnostic and prognostic 
value of atypical physical features in patients with a long history of 
complicated glucose regulation.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.a.36730
PMID: 25425063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1509. J Psychol. 2015;149(8):775-95. doi: 10.1080/00223980.2014.979127. Epub 2014 Nov 
25.

Political Skill and Work Attitudes: A Comparison of Multiple Social 
Effectiveness Constructs.

Banister CM(1), Meriac JP.

Author information:
(1)a IBM.

In the realm of social effectiveness constructs, political skill has seen 
increased attention as a predictor of work performance and attitudes. However, 
the extent that political skill is distinct from related variables in this area 
remains an important question. The current study examined the proportion of 
variance explained by political skill in job satisfaction and turnover 
intentions above and beyond other social effectiveness variables (i.e., social 
intelligence, emotional intelligence, agreeableness, and conscientiousness). 
Results indicated that political skill was the strongest predictor of these 
outcomes, and explained a significant proportion of variance in them, beyond the 
other four social effectiveness constructs.

DOI: 10.1080/00223980.2014.979127
PMID: 25425484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1510. Am J Med Genet A. 2015 Feb;167A(2):282-6. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.a.36851. Epub 2014 
Nov 26.

Acro-spondylo-pubic dysostosis associated with cataracts, microcephaly, and 
normal intelligence.

Chacon-Camacho OF(1), Villegas-Ruiz V, Buentello-Volante B, Piña-Aguilar RE, 
Peláez-González H, Ramírez M, González-Rodríguez J, Zenteno JC.

Author information:
(1)Genetics Department-Research Unit, Institute of Ophthalmology "Conde de 
Valenciana", Mexico City, Mexico.

We report on an adult male with normal intelligence who exhibited an unusual 
combination of microcephaly, dysostoses of limbs, vertebrae, patellae, and pubic 
bone, camptodactyly of all fingers, and syndactyly of toes, absent nails on 
thumbs and some fingers, bilateral cataract, cryptorchidism, polythelia, and 
nipple-like skin pigmentations of shoulders and upper back. We have been unable 
to find a description of a similar combination of manifestations in literature. 
The cause of the anomalies remains unknown.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.a.36851
PMID: 25427842 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1511. Nurs Manag (Harrow). 2014 Nov 27;21(8):15. doi: 10.7748/nm.21.8.15.s21.

The importance of emotional intelligence.

Clancy C(1).

Author information:
(1)Kennedy Health System, Turnersville, New Jersey.

Nurse managers who exhibit high emotional intelligence (EI) can elicit higher 
nurse-retention rates, better patient satisfaction and optimal organisational 
outcomes, and those who are emotionally intelligent tend consistently to model 
the positive behaviour that is expected of healthcare staff.

DOI: 10.7748/nm.21.8.15.s21
PMID: 25428315


1512. IET Nanobiotechnol. 2014 Dec;8(4):238-46. doi: 10.1049/iet-nbt.2013.0055.

Computational intelligence-based polymerase chain reaction primer selection 
based on a novel teaching-learning-based optimisation.

Cheng YH(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Digital Content Design and Management, Toko University, Chiayi, 
Taiwan. yuhuei.cheng@gmail.com.

Specific primers play an important role in polymerase chain reaction (PCR) 
experiments, and therefore it is essential to find specific primers of 
outstanding quality. Unfortunately, many PCR constraints must be simultaneously 
inspected which makes specific primer selection difficult and time-consuming. 
This paper introduces a novel computational intelligence-based method, 
Teaching-Learning-Based Optimisation, to select the specific and feasible 
primers. The specified PCR product lengths of 150-300 bp and 500-800 bp with 
three melting temperature formulae of Wallace's formula, Bolton and McCarthy's 
formula and SantaLucia's formula were performed. The authors calculate optimal 
frequency to estimate the quality of primer selection based on a total of 500 
runs for 50 random nucleotide sequences of 'Homo species' retrieved from the 
National Center for Biotechnology Information. The method was then fairly 
compared with the genetic algorithm (GA) and memetic algorithm (MA) for primer 
selection in the literature. The results show that the method easily found 
suitable primers corresponding with the setting primer constraints and had 
preferable performance than the GA and the MA. Furthermore, the method was also 
compared with the common method Primer3 according to their method type, primers 
presentation, parameters setting, speed and memory usage. In conclusion, it is 
an interesting primer selection method and a valuable tool for automatic 
high-throughput analysis. In the future, the usage of the primers in the wet lab 
needs to be validated carefully to increase the reliability of the method.

DOI: 10.1049/iet-nbt.2013.0055
PMID: 25429503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1513. Eur Child Adolesc Psychiatry. 2015 Sep;24(9):1025-33. doi: 
10.1007/s00787-014-0652-6. Epub 2014 Nov 28.

Lateral preference in Williams-Beuren syndrome is associated with cognition and 
language.

Pérez-García D(1), Flores R, Brun-Gasca C, Pérez-Jurado LA.

Author information:
(1)Unitat de Genètica, Departament de Ciències Experimentals i de la Salut, 
Universitat Pompeu Fabra, 08003, Barcelona, Spain.

Williams-Beuren syndrome (WBS) is a genetically defined neurodevelopmental 
disorder presenting with intellectual disability associated with a specific 
neurocognitive profile characterized by anxiety, hypersociability, poor 
visuospatial skills and relatively preserved language. We have defined the 
lateral preference in 69 individuals (40 males and 29 females, age range 5-47 
years) with WBS confirmed by molecular testing, and explored its correlation 
with cognition, behavior problems, the main aspects of the behavioral phenotype, 
and specific molecular variants (parental origin and size of the 7q11.23 
deletion). Lateral preference (hand, foot, eye and ear) and neurobehavioral 
features [intelligence quotient (IQ), sociability, visuospatial construction, 
narrative skills and behavior] were assessed by a battery of tests and parental 
interviews. A large proportion of WBS individuals showed either left or mixed 
handedness (26 and 19%, respectively). Hand, foot and ear lateral preference 
showed significant association with IQ, with individuals with mixed lateral 
preference presenting lower general IQ, especially verbal IQ, with respect to 
subjects with well-defined laterality. Approachability, visuospatial ability, 
behavior problems or molecular variants were not associated with lateral 
preference. Our results indicate that, as in other neurodevelopmental disorders, 
laterality is poorly defined in a significant proportion of WBS individuals, and 
reinforces the idea that a correct definition of lateral preference is important 
for cognition and language.

DOI: 10.1007/s00787-014-0652-6
PMID: 25431039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1514. Health Educ Behav. 2015 Jun;42(3):370-9. doi: 10.1177/1090198114560020. Epub 
2014 Nov 27.

Education and coronary heart disease risk: potential mechanisms such as 
literacy, perceived constraints, and depressive symptoms.

Loucks EB(1), Gilman SE(2), Howe CJ(3), Kawachi I(4), Kubzansky LD(4), Rudd 
RE(4), Martin LT(5), Nandi A(6), Wilhelm A(3), Buka SL(3).

Author information:
(1)Brown University School of Public Health, Providence, RI, USA 
eric.loucks@brown.edu.
(2)Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, MA, USA Massachusetts General 
Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.
(3)Brown University School of Public Health, Providence, RI, USA.
(4)Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, MA, USA.
(5)RAND Corporation, Arlington, VA, USA.
(6)McGill University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.

OBJECTIVE: Education is inversely associated with coronary heart disease (CHD) 
risk; however the mechanisms are poorly understood. The study objectives were to 
evaluate the extent to which rarely measured factors (literacy, time preference, 
sense of control) and more commonly measured factors (income, depressive 
symptomatology, body mass index) in the education-CHD literature explain the 
associations between education and CHD risk.
METHOD: The study sample included 346 participants, aged 38 to 47 years (59.5% 
women), of the New England Family Study birth cohort. Ten-year CHD risk was 
calculated using the validated Framingham risk algorithm that utilizes diabetes, 
smoking, blood pressure, total cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein 
cholesterol, age, and gender. Multivariable regression and mediation analyses 
were performed.
RESULTS: Regression analyses adjusting for age, race/ethnicity, and childhood 
confounders (e.g., parental socioeconomic status, intelligence) demonstrated 
that relative to those with greater than or equal to college education, men and 
women with less than high school had 73.7% (95% confidence interval [CI; 29.5, 
133.0]) and 48.2% (95% CI [17.5, 86.8]) higher 10-year CHD risk, respectively. 
Mediation analyses demonstrated significant indirect effects for reading 
comprehension in women (7.2%; 95% CI [0.7, 19.4]) and men (7.2%; 95% CI [0.8, 
19.1]), and depressive symptoms (11.8%; 95% CI [2.5, 26.6]) and perceived 
constraint (6.7%, 95% CI [0.7, 19.1]) in women.
CONCLUSIONS: Evidence suggested that reading comprehension in women and men, and 
depressive symptoms and perceived constraint in women, may mediate some of the 
association between education and CHD risk. If these mediated effects are 
interpreted causally, interventions targeting reading, depressive symptoms, and 
perceived constraint could reduce educational inequalities in CHD.

© 2014 Society for Public Health Education.

DOI: 10.1177/1090198114560020
PMCID: PMC4595931
PMID: 25431228 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1515. BMC Med Educ. 2014 Nov 28;14:245. doi: 10.1186/s12909-014-0245-6.

Facial affect recognition and exit examination performance in medical students: 
a prospective exploratory study.

Roos TC, Niehaus DJ, Leppänen JM, Ras J, Cloete KJ, Jordaan E, Koen L.

BACKGROUND: Facial affect recognition (FAR) abilities underpin emotional 
intelligence (EI). The latter is suggested to predict academic success and to be 
important for clinician-patient interaction. It is therefore of interest to 
investigate the possible association between FAR and academic performance in 
undergraduate medical students.
METHODS: We assessed the association between the ability to recognize emotions 
through facial expression and exit examination performance, a measure of 
clinical proficiency, in undergraduate medical students stratified by gender at 
a South African tertiary institution using a prospective descriptive design. 
Data on the perception of facial expressions and exit examination marks were 
obtained from 144 (61%) females and 93 (39%) males with a mean age of 24.1 ± 1.6 
years. Facial affect recognition measures on the Hexagon and Animation tasks 
were individually correlated with academic performance indicators using Pearson 
correlation.
RESULTS: The perceptual discrimination of anger was associated with improved 
performance in anaesthetics (r = .24; p = .004) and urology (r = .24; p = .001), 
while the recognition of happiness was associated with decreased performance in 
obstetrics (r = -.21, p = .002). Gender was an effect modifier in the 
relationship between perceptual discrimination of anger and urology performance 
(p = .03), with a strong positive relationship for males, but a non-significant 
relationship for females.
CONCLUSION: There was no overall correlation between FAR and overall academic 
performance or with gender. However, subject (specialty) specific findings with 
recognition of specific emotions and with gender as effect modifier poses 
interesting questions about EI and FAR and prompts further research into FAR as 
a useful tool. Being an objective test and offering a more focused assessment 
makes FAR worthy of further application.

DOI: 10.1186/s12909-014-0245-6
PMCID: PMC4261890
PMID: 25431251 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1516. Knowl Based Syst. 2014 Oct;69:78-85. doi: 10.1016/j.knosys.2014.04.039.

Enriching semantic knowledge bases for opinion mining in big data applications.

Weichselbraun A(1), Gindl S(2), Scharl A(2).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Information Science, University of Applied Sciences Chur, 
Pulvermühlestrasse 57, CH-7004 Chur, Switzerland.
(2)Department of New Media Technology, MODUL University Vienna, Am Kahlenberg 1, 
1190 Vienna, Austria.

This paper presents a novel method for contextualizing and enriching large 
semantic knowledge bases for opinion mining with a focus on Web intelligence 
platforms and other high-throughput big data applications. The method is not 
only applicable to traditional sentiment lexicons, but also to more 
comprehensive, multi-dimensional affective resources such as SenticNet. It 
comprises the following steps: (i) identify ambiguous sentiment terms, (ii) 
provide context information extracted from a domain-specific training corpus, 
and (iii) ground this contextual information to structured background knowledge 
sources such as ConceptNet and WordNet. A quantitative evaluation shows a 
significant improvement when using an enriched version of SenticNet for polarity 
classification. Crowdsourced gold standard data in conjunction with a 
qualitative evaluation sheds light on the strengths and weaknesses of the 
concept grounding, and on the quality of the enrichment process.

DOI: 10.1016/j.knosys.2014.04.039
PMCID: PMC4235782
PMID: 25431524


1517. Comput Intell Neurosci. 2014;2014:240828. doi: 10.1155/2014/240828. Epub 2014 
Nov 6.

Modeling design iteration in product design and development and its solution by 
a novel artificial bee colony algorithm.

Chen T(1), Xiao R(2).

Author information:
(1)College of Computer Science & Information Engineering, Zhejiang Gongshang 
University, Hangzhou, Zhejiang 310018, China.
(2)Institute of Systems Engineering, Huazhong University of Science and 
Technology, Wuhan, Hubei 430074, China.

Due to fierce market competition, how to improve product quality and reduce 
development cost determines the core competitiveness of enterprises. However, 
design iteration generally causes increases of product cost and delays of 
development time as well, so how to identify and model couplings among tasks in 
product design and development has become an important issue for enterprises to 
settle. In this paper, the shortcomings existing in WTM model are discussed and 
tearing approach as well as inner iteration method is used to complement the 
classic WTM model. In addition, the ABC algorithm is also introduced to find out 
the optimal decoupling schemes. In this paper, firstly, tearing approach and 
inner iteration method are analyzed for solving coupled sets. Secondly, a hybrid 
iteration model combining these two technologies is set up. Thirdly, a 
high-performance swarm intelligence algorithm, artificial bee colony, is adopted 
to realize problem-solving. Finally, an engineering design of a chemical 
processing system is given in order to verify its reasonability and 
effectiveness.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/240828
PMCID: PMC4241288
PMID: 25431584 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1518. Indian J Pediatr. 2015 Jun;82(6):515-8. doi: 10.1007/s12098-014-1629-7. Epub 
2014 Nov 30.

Cognitive Function among HIV Infected Children in Pune.

Ghate M(1), Narkhede H, Rahane G, Nirmalkar A, Gaikwad N, Kadam D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Sciences, National AIDS Research Institute, Pune, 
Maharashtra, India, mghate@nariindia.org.

OBJECTIVE: To assess cognitive function of school-aged, perinatally acquired 
human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected, antiretroviral therapy (ART) naïve 
children in Pune.
METHODS: HIV infected ART naïve children (n = 50) between 6 and 12 y attending 
outpatient clinic were administered the Indian Child Intelligence Test (ICIT) 
after their clinical evaluation. Age and gender matched HIV uninfected children 
(n = 50) were enrolled as controls. The test battery included measures of 
perception of form (Gestalt), concept formation, memory span, learning and 
remembering, associative memory span, transformation of visual field, 
quantitative concepts, spatial visualization and visual motor coordination. The 
information on adaptive behavior was obtained from the care giver and a brief 
interview with the child using Vineland Social Maturity Scale (VSMS).
RESULTS: Mean age of the children was 9.3 y (SD: 1.3) and mean education was 
4.3 y (SD: 1.3). The mean CD4 count of HIV infected children was 588 cells/mm(3) 
(SD: 324.4). There was no significant difference in the overall ICIT scores 
between HIV infected and uninfected children (p 0.209). The adaptive behavior 
(VSMS) scores were significantly less in HIV infected children as compared to 
others (p 0.028).
CONCLUSIONS: There was no significant difference in the overall cognitive 
abilities in HIV infected children using ICIT as compared to HIV uninfected 
children, although significant difference in the adaptive behavior between the 
two groups was observed. It is important to conduct larger prospective studies 
using standardized test batteries that are inclusive of multiple cognitive 
domains sensitive to HIV effects in Indian children.

DOI: 10.1007/s12098-014-1629-7
PMID: 25432090 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1519. Int Arch Occup Environ Health. 2015 Aug;88(6):779-87. doi: 
10.1007/s00420-014-1004-z. Epub 2014 Nov 29.

Prediction of hearing loss among the noise-exposed workers in a steel factory 
using artificial intelligence approach.

Aliabadi M(1), Farhadian M, Darvishi E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Occupational Health, School of Public Health, Hamadan 
University of Medical Science, Hamadan, Iran, mohsen.aliabadi@umsha.ac.ir.

PURPOSE: Prediction of hearing loss in noisy workplaces is considered to be an 
important aspect of hearing conservation program. Artificial intelligence, as a 
new approach, can be used to predict the complex phenomenon such as hearing 
loss. Using artificial neural networks, this study aims to present an empirical 
model for the prediction of the hearing loss threshold among noise-exposed 
workers.
METHODS: Two hundred and ten workers employed in a steel factory were chosen, 
and their occupational exposure histories were collected. To determine the 
hearing loss threshold, the audiometric test was carried out using a calibrated 
audiometer. The personal noise exposure was also measured using a noise 
dosimeter in the workstations of workers. Finally, data obtained five variables, 
which can influence the hearing loss, were used for the development of the 
prediction model. Multilayer feed-forward neural networks with different 
structures were developed using MATLAB software. Neural network structures had 
one hidden layer with the number of neurons being approximately between 5 and 15 
neurons.
RESULTS: The best developed neural networks with one hidden layer and ten 
neurons could accurately predict the hearing loss threshold with RMSE = 2.6 dB 
and R(2) = 0.89. The results also confirmed that neural networks could provide 
more accurate predictions than multiple regressions.
CONCLUSIONS: Since occupational hearing loss is frequently non-curable, results 
of accurate prediction can be used by occupational health experts to modify and 
improve noise exposure conditions.

DOI: 10.1007/s00420-014-1004-z
PMID: 25432298 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1520. Brain Struct Funct. 2016 Mar;221(2):1189-203. doi: 10.1007/s00429-014-0947-x. 
Epub 2014 Nov 29.

White matter maturation profiles through early childhood predict general 
cognitive ability.

Deoni SC(1), O'Muircheartaigh J(2), Elison JT(3), Walker L(4), Doernberg E(4), 
Waskiewicz N(4), Dirks H(4), Piryatinsky I(4), Dean DC 3rd(4), Jumbe NL(5).

Author information:
(1)Advanced Baby Imaging Lab, Brown University School of Engineering, 184 Hope 
Street, Box D, Providence, RI, 02912, USA. sdeoni@mac.com.
(2)Department of Neuroimaging, King's College London, Institute of Psychiatry, 
London, UK.
(3)Institute of Child Development, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, USA.
(4)Advanced Baby Imaging Lab, Brown University School of Engineering, 184 Hope 
Street, Box D, Providence, RI, 02912, USA.
(5)The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, Seattle, USA.

Infancy and early childhood are periods of rapid brain development, during which 
brain structure and function mature alongside evolving cognitive ability. An 
important neurodevelopmental process during this postnatal period is the 
maturation of the myelinated white matter, which facilitates rapid communication 
across neural systems and networks. Though prior brain imaging studies in 
children (4 years of age and above), adolescents, and adults have consistently 
linked white matter development with cognitive maturation and intelligence, few 
studies have examined how these processes are related throughout early 
development (birth to 4 years of age). Here, we show that the profile of white 
matter myelination across the first 5 years of life is strongly and specifically 
related to cognitive ability. Using a longitudinal design, coupled with advanced 
magnetic resonance imaging, we demonstrate that children with above-average 
ability show differential trajectories of myelin development compared to average 
and below average ability children, even when controlling for socioeconomic 
status, gestation, and birth weight. Specifically, higher ability children 
exhibit slower but more prolonged early development, resulting in overall 
increased myelin measures by ~3 years of age. These results provide new insight 
into the early neuroanatomical correlates of cognitive ability, and suggest an 
early period of prolonged maturation with associated protracted white matter 
plasticity may result in strengthened neural networks that can better support 
later development. Further, these results reinforce the necessity of a 
longitudinal perspective in investigating typical or suspected atypical 
cognitive maturation.

DOI: 10.1007/s00429-014-0947-x
PMCID: PMC4771819
PMID: 25432771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1521. BMC Med Educ. 2014 Nov 30;14:257. doi: 10.1186/s12909-014-0257-2.

Implementing a pilot leadership course for internal medicine residents: design 
considerations, participant impressions, and lessons learned.

Blumenthal DM, Bernard K, Fraser TN, Bohnen J, Zeidman J, Stone VE.

BACKGROUND: Effective clinical leadership is associated with better patient 
care. We implemented and evaluated a pilot clinical leadership course for second 
year internal medicine residents at a large United States Academic Medical 
Center that is part of a multi-hospital health system.
METHODS: The course met weekly for two to three hours during July, 2013. 
Sessions included large group discussions and small group reflection meetings. 
Topics included leadership styles, emotional intelligence, and leading clinical 
teams. Course materials were designed internally and featured "business school 
style" case studies about everyday clinical medicine which explore how 
leadership skills impact care delivery. Participants evaluated the course's 
impact and quality using a post-course survey. Questions were structured in five 
point likert scale and free text format. Likert scale responses were converted 
to a 1-5 scale (1 = strongly disagree; 3 = neither agree nor disagree; 5 = 
strongly agree), and means were compared to the value 3 using one-way T-tests. 
Responses to free text questions were analyzed using the constant comparative 
method.
RESULTS: All sixteen pilot course participants completed the survey. 
Participants overwhelmingly agreed that the course provided content and skills 
relevant to their clinical responsibilities and leadership roles. Most 
participants also acknowledged that taking the course improved their 
understanding of their strengths and weaknesses as leaders, different leadership 
styles, and how to manage interpersonal conflict on clinical teams. 88% also 
reported that the course increased their interest in pursuing additional 
leadership training.
CONCLUSIONS: A clinical leadership course for internal medicine residents 
designed by colleagues, and utilizing case studies about clinical medicine, 
resulted in significant self-reported improvements in clinical leadership 
competencies.

DOI: 10.1186/s12909-014-0257-2
PMCID: PMC4261637
PMID: 25433680 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1522. Funct Integr Genomics. 2015 Mar;15(2):175-88. doi: 10.1007/s10142-014-0418-8. 
Epub 2014 Nov 30.

Dynamic interactive events in gene regulation using E. coli dehydrogenase as a 
model.

Puranik S(1), Purohit HJ.

Author information:
(1)Environmental Genomics Division, CSIR-National Environmental Engineering 
Research Institute, 440020, Nehru Marg, India.

Different approaches in gene expression analysis always provide a snapshot view 
of cellular events. During the bacterial growth, the decisions are dynamically 
made with participation of various genes and their interactions with modulating 
factors. We have selected Escherichia coli dehydrogenases as a model to capture 
these interactions. We have treated the cells with hydrogen peroxide with very 
low level and asked the questions how cellular physiology has modulated itself 
to survive post-shock conditions. We hypothesized that while global regulators 
and associated gene network dictate the overall cellular intelligence, specific 
redox-sensitive classes of enzymes like dehydrogenase-mediated modulation could 
provide the option to cell for survival under peroxide after-effect. To 
understand the dynamic gene interaction, we used multidimensional scaling of 
genes and overlaid with minimum spanning tree to understand the clustering 
patterns under different conditions. Study shows that under peroxide 
after-effect, it is the interplay of ArcA (global regulator), with ldhA 
(involved in intermediary metabolism) and ndh (managing co-factor NADH), that 
emerges as modulating association. Knockout mutants of global regulators 
confirmed the promoter activity trend through gene expression change for 
dehydrogenases.

DOI: 10.1007/s10142-014-0418-8
PMID: 25433707 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1523. Nutr J. 2014 Nov 29;13(1):111. doi: 10.1186/1475-2891-13-111.

Protective effect of breastfeeding with regard to children's behavioral and 
cognitive problems.

Park S, Kim BN, Kim JW, Shin MS, Yoo HJ, Cho SC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Science, Seoul National University 
College of Medicine, 101 Daehak-No, Chongno-Gu, Seoul, Korea. 
soochurl@snu.ac.kr.

BACKGROUND: Breastfeeding has been associated with a lower risk for behavioral 
problems in childhood. However, it is uncertain whether these associations are 
mediated by the mother's or child's IQ. We examined the association between 
breastfeeding and attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and other 
behavioral problems in childhood and assessed the role of the child's IQ and the 
mother's IQ in generating this association.
FINDINGS: The current study included 874 children (8-11 years) recruited from 
schools in five Korean cities. Mothers were asked about nursing, and the 
prevalence of attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and behavioral 
problems were compared between children who were breastfed and those who were 
not breastfed. After adjusting for age, gender, area of residence, and yearly 
family income, a lack of breastfeeding was associated with increased 
internalizing, externalizing, and overall behavioral problems as well as the 
diagnosis of ADHD. These associations weakened but mostly remained significant 
after adjusting for child's IQ and maternal IQ. In addition, a lack of 
breastfeeding was associated with low child's IQ and this association weakened, 
but remained significant even after adjusting for maternal IQ and the diagnosis 
of ADHD.
CONCLUSIONS: This study suggests that there is a protective effect of 
breastfeeding on childhood behavioral outcomes with a partial mediation of this 
effect by the child's IQ, and there is a positive effect of breastfeeding on 
childhood intelligence with a partial mediation of this effect by the child's 
attention problem.

DOI: 10.1186/1475-2891-13-111
PMCID: PMC4280748
PMID: 25433771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1524. Rand Health Q. 2014 Dec 1;3(4):5. eCollection 2014 Winter.

Out of the Shadows: The Health and Well-Being of Private Contractors Working in 
Conflict Environments.

Dunigan M, Farmer CM, Burns RM, Hawks A, Setodji CM.

Over the past decade, private contractors have been deployed extensively around 
the globe. In addition to supporting U.S. and allied forces in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, contractors have assisted foreign governments, nongovernmental 
organizations, and private businesses by providing a wide range of services, 
including base support and maintenance, logistical support, transportation, 
intelligence, communications, construction, and security. At the height of the 
conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan, contractors outnumbered U.S. troops deployed 
to both theaters. Although these contractors are not supposed to engage in 
offensive combat, they may nonetheless be exposed to many of the stressors that 
are known to have physical and mental health implications for military 
personnel. RAND conducted an online survey of a sample of contractors who had 
deployed on contract to a theater of conflict at least once between early 2011 
and early 2013. The survey collected demographic and employment information, 
along with details about respondents' deployment experience (including level of 
preparation for deployment, combat exposure, and living conditions), mental 
health (including probable posttraumatic stress disorder, depression, and 
alcohol misuse), physical health, and access to and use of health care. The goal 
was to describe the contractors' health and well-being and to explore 
differences across the sample by such factors as country of citizenship, job 
specialty, and length and frequency of contract deployment. The findings provide 
a foundation for future studies of contractor populations and serve to inform 
policy decisions affecting contractors, including efforts to reduce barriers to 
mental health treatment for this population.

PMCID: PMC5051922
PMID: 28083310


1525. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 2015 May;212(5):658.e1-8. doi: 10.1016/j.ajog.2014.11.032. 
Epub 2014 Nov 27.

Development of children born to mothers with cancer during pregnancy: comparing 
in utero chemotherapy-exposed children with nonexposed controls.

Cardonick EH(1), Gringlas MB(2), Hunter K(3), Greenspan J(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Cooper Hospital, Camden, NJ. 
Electronic address: Cardonick-elyce@cooperhealth.edu.
(2)Division of Neonatology, Department of Pediatrics, Nemours/Alfred I. duPont 
Hospital for Children, Wilmington, DE.
(3)Division of Biostatistics, Department of Research, Cooper Hospital, Camden, 
NJ.

Comment in
    Am J Obstet Gynecol. 2015 Jun;212(6):831-2.
    Am J Obstet Gynecol. 2015 Jun;212(6):830-1.

OBJECTIVE: Cancer is diagnosed in approximately 1 per 1000 pregnant women. 
Lifesaving cancer therapy given to the mother during pregnancy appears in 
conflict with the interest of the developing fetus. Often, termination of 
pregnancy is suggested but has not been proven in any type of cancer to improve 
maternal prognosis, while very few studies have documented the long-term effects 
of in utero chemotherapy exposure on child outcome. To counsel patients about 
the risk of continuing a pregnancy while undergoing cancer treatment, we 
performed developmental testing to provide more detailed follow-up on children 
exposed in utero to chemotherapy.
STUDY DESIGN: Mother-infant pairs, enrolled in the Cancer and Pregnancy 
Registry, were offered developmental testing for children who were ≥18 months of 
age. Based on age, the Bayley Scales of Infant Development-Third Edition, the 
Wechsler Preschool and Primary Scale of Intelligence-Revised, the Wechsler 
Intelligence Scale for Children, Third Edition, or the Wechsler Individual 
Achievement Test was administered. All parents or primary caregivers completed 
the Child Behavior Checklist, a parent questionnaire to assess behavior and 
emotional issues. Results of children exposed to chemotherapy before delivery 
were compared with children whose mothers were also diagnosed with cancer during 
pregnancy but did not receive chemotherapy before delivery.
RESULTS: No significant differences were noted in cognitive skills, academic 
achievement, or behavioral competence between the chemotherapy-exposed group and 
the unexposed children. Of children, 95% scored within normal limits on 
cognitive assessments; 71% and 79% of children demonstrated at or above age 
equivalency in mathematics and reading scores, respectively; and 79% of children 
scored within normal limits on measures of behavior. Older children had 
significantly higher rates of internalizing behavior problems.
CONCLUSION: We could not demonstrate a significant difference in cognitive 
ability, school performance, or behavioral competence for children exposed to 
chemotherapy in utero compared with nonexposed controls. The majority of these 
children scored within normal limits on all developmental measures. Premature 
birth was more prevalent in the chemotherapy-exposed group yet did not predict 
developmental outcome. Older children in the sample demonstrated higher rates of 
internalizing behavior problems.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajog.2014.11.032
PMID: 25434835 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1526. Comput Methods Programs Biomed. 2015 Feb;118(2):186-97. doi: 
10.1016/j.cmpb.2014.11.002. Epub 2014 Nov 22.

Machine learning algorithms and forced oscillation measurements to categorise 
the airway obstruction severity in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.

Amaral JL(1), Lopes AJ(2), Faria AC(3), Melo PL(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Electronics and Telecommunications Engineering, Brazil.
(2)Pulmonary Function Laboratory, Pedro Ernesto University Hospital, Brazil.
(3)Biomedical Instrumentation Laboratory, Institute of Biology Roberto Alcantara 
Gomes and Laboratory of Clinical and Experimental Research in Vascular Biology 
(BioVasc), State University of Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
(4)Biomedical Instrumentation Laboratory, Institute of Biology Roberto Alcantara 
Gomes and Laboratory of Clinical and Experimental Research in Vascular Biology 
(BioVasc), State University of Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. 
Electronic address: plopes@uerj.br.

The purpose of this study was to develop automatic classifiers to simplify the 
clinical use and increase the accuracy of the forced oscillation technique (FOT) 
in the categorisation of airway obstruction level in patients with chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). The data consisted of FOT parameters 
obtained from 168 volunteers (42 healthy and 126 COPD subjects with four 
different levels of obstruction). The first part of this study showed that FOT 
parameters do not provide adequate accuracy in identifying COPD subjects in the 
first levels of obstruction, as well as in discriminating between close levels 
of obstruction. In the second part of this study, different supervised machine 
learning (ML) techniques were investigated, including k-nearest neighbour (KNN), 
random forest (RF) and support vector machines with linear (SVML) and radial 
basis function kernels (SVMR). These algorithms were applied only in situations 
where high categorisation accuracy [area under the Receiver Operating 
Characteristic curve (AUC)≥0.9] was not achieved with the FOT parameter alone. 
It was observed that KNN and RF classifiers improved categorisation accuracy. 
Notably, in four of the six cases studied, an AUC≥0.9 was achieved. Even in 
situations where an AUC≥0.9 was not achieved, there was a significant 
improvement in categorisation performance (AUC≥0.83). In conclusion, machine 
learning classifiers can help in the categorisation of COPD airway obstruction. 
They can assist clinicians in tracking disease progression, evaluating the risk 
of future disease exacerbations and guiding therapy.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cmpb.2014.11.002
PMID: 25435077 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1527. J Cogn Neurosci. 2015 May;27(5):853-65. doi: 10.1162/jocn_a_00765. Epub 2014 Dec 
1.

Working memory delay activity predicts individual differences in cognitive 
abilities.

Unsworth N(1), Fukuda K, Awh E, Vogel EK.

Author information:
(1)University of Oregon.

A great deal of prior research has examined the relation between estimates of 
working memory and cognitive abilities. Yet, the neural mechanisms that account 
for these relations are still not very well understood. The current study 
explored whether individual differences in working memory delay activity would 
be a significant predictor of cognitive abilities. A large number of 
participants performed multiple measures of capacity, attention control, 
long-term memory, working memory span, and fluid intelligence, and latent 
variable analyses were used to examine the data. During two working memory 
change detection tasks, we acquired EEG data and examined the contralateral 
delay activity. The results demonstrated that the contralateral delay activity 
was significantly related to cognitive abilities, and importantly these 
relations were because of individual differences in both capacity and attention 
control. These results suggest that individual differences in working memory 
delay activity predict individual differences in a broad range of cognitive 
abilities, and this is because of both differences in the number of items that 
can be maintained and the ability to control access to working memory.

DOI: 10.1162/jocn_a_00765
PMCID: PMC4465247
PMID: 25436671 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1528. IEEE Trans Cybern. 2015 Sep;45(9):1887-99. doi: 10.1109/TCYB.2014.2361731. Epub 
2014 Nov 25.

Evolving Transport Networks With Cellular Automata Models Inspired by Slime 
Mould.

Tsompanas MA, Sirakoulis GCh, Adamatzky AI.

Man-made transport networks and their design are closely related to the shortest 
path problem and considered amongst the most debated problems of computational 
intelligence. Apart from using conventional or bio-inspired computer algorithms, 
many researchers tried to solve this kind of problem using biological computing 
substrates, gas-discharge solvers, prototypes of a mobile droplet, and hot ice 
computers. In this aspect, another example of biological computer is the 
plasmodium of acellular slime mould Physarum polycephalum (P. polycephalum), 
which is a large single cell visible by an unaided eye and has been proven as a 
reliable living substrate for implementing biological computing devices for 
computational geometry, graph-theoretical problems, and optimization and 
imitation of transport networks. Although P. polycephalum is easy to experiment 
with, computing devices built with the living slime mould are extremely slow; it 
takes slime mould days to execute a computation. Consequently, mapping key 
computing mechanisms of the slime mould onto silicon would allow us to produce 
efficient bio-inspired computing devices to tackle with hard to solve 
computational intelligence problems like the aforementioned. Toward this 
direction, a cellular automaton (CA)-based, Physarum-inspired, network designing 
model is proposed. This novel CA-based model is inspired by the propagating 
strategy, the formation of tubular networks, and the computing abilities of the 
plasmodium of P. polycephalum. The results delivered by the CA model demonstrate 
a good match with several previously published results of experimental 
laboratory studies on imitation of man-made transport networks with P. 
polycephalum. Consequently, the proposed CA model can be used as a virtual, 
easy-to-access, and biomimicking laboratory emulator that will economize large 
time periods needed for biological experiments while producing networks almost 
identical to the tubular networks of the real-slime mould.

DOI: 10.1109/TCYB.2014.2361731
PMID: 25438333 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1529. Int Emerg Nurs. 2015 Jan;23(1):13-6. doi: 10.1016/j.ienj.2014.08.009. Epub 2014 
Sep 16.

Emotional intelligence--essential for trauma nursing.

Holbery N(1).

Author information:
(1)St George's Healthcare NHS Trust/Kingston University, St George's University 
of London, Blackshaw Rd, Tooting, London SW17 0QT, UK. Electronic address: 
n.holbery@sgul.kingston.ac.uk.

Patients and their relatives are increasingly considered partners in health and 
social care decision-making. Numerous political drivers in the UK reflect a 
commitment to this partnership and to improving the experience of patients and 
relatives in emergency care environments. As a Lecturer/Practitioner in 
Emergency Care I recently experienced the London Trauma System as a relative. My 
dual perspective, as nurse and relative, allowed me to identify a gap in the 
quality of care akin to emotional intelligence. This paper aims to raise 
awareness of emotional intelligence (EI), highlight its importance in trauma 
care and contribute to the development of this concept in trauma nursing and 
education across the globe.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ienj.2014.08.009
PMID: 25438713 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1530. Ultrasonics. 2015 Feb;56:361-9. doi: 10.1016/j.ultras.2014.09.002. Epub 2014 Sep 
16.

Novel characterization method for fibrous materials using non-contact acoustics: 
material properties revealed by ultrasonic perturbations.

Periyaswamy T(1), Balasubramanian K(2), Pastore C(3).

Author information:
(1)117 Wightman Hall, Central Michigan University, Mount Pleasant, MI 48859, 
United States. Electronic address: periy1t@cmich.edu.
(2)Temple University, Philadelphia, PA 19122, United States. Electronic address: 
bkintex@gmail.com.
(3)Philadelphia University, Philadelphia, PA 19144, United States. Electronic 
address: PastoreC@philau.edu.

Fibrous materials are unique hierarchical complex structures exhibiting a range 
of mechanical, thermal, optical and electrical properties. The inherent 
discontinuity at micro and macro levels, heterogeneity and multi-scale porosity 
differentiates fibrous materials from other engineering materials that are 
typically continuum in nature. These structural complexities greatly influence 
the techniques and modalities that can be applied to characterize fibrous 
materials. Typically, the material response to an applied external force is 
measured and used as a characteristic number of the specimen. In general, a 
range of equipment is in use to obtain these numbers to signify the material 
properties. Nevertheless, obtaining these numbers for materials like fiber 
ensembles is often time consuming, destructive, and requires multiple 
modalities. It is hypothesized that the material response to an applied acoustic 
frequency would provide a robust alternative characterization mode for rapid and 
non-destructive material analysis. This research proposes applying air-coupled 
ultrasonic acoustics to characterize fibrous materials. Ultrasonic frequency 
waves transmitted through fibrous assemblies were feature extracted to 
understand the correlation between the applied frequency and the material 
properties. Mechanical and thermal characteristics were analyzed using 
ultrasonic features such as time of flight, signal velocity, power and the rate 
of attenuation of signal amplitude. Subsequently, these temporal and spectral 
characteristics were mapped with the standard low-stress mechanical and thermal 
properties via an empirical artificial intelligence engine. A high correlation 
of >0.92 (S.D. 0.06) was observed between the ultrasonic features and the 
standard measurements. The proposed ultrasonic technique can be used toward 
rapid characterization of dynamic behavior of flexible fibrous assemblies.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ultras.2014.09.002
PMID: 25439446


1531. Pediatr Neurol. 2015 Jan;52(1):88-93. doi: 10.1016/j.pediatrneurol.2014.09.006. 
Epub 2014 Sep 18.

Neurocognitive function in children after anterior temporal lobectomy with 
amygdalohippocampectomy.

Lee YJ(1), Kang HC(2), Kim HD(2), Kim DS(3), Shim KW(3), Eom S(4), Lee JS(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Pusan National University Children's Hospital, 
Pusan National University School of Medicine, Yangsan, South Korea.
(2)Department of Pediatric Neurology, Pediatric Epilepsy Clinics, Severance 
Children's Hospital, Brain Research Institute, Yonsei University College of 
Medicine, Seoul, South Korea.
(3)Department of Neurosurgery, Severance Children's Hospital, Yonsei University 
College of Medicine, Seoul, South Korea.
(4)Department of Neuropsychiatrics, Severance Children's Hospital, Yonsei 
University College of Medicine, Seoul, South Korea.
(5)Department of Pediatric Neurology, Pediatric Epilepsy Clinics, Severance 
Children's Hospital, Brain Research Institute, Yonsei University College of 
Medicine, Seoul, South Korea. Electronic address: joonsl96@yuhs.ac.

BACKGROUND: We assessed the postoperative neurocognitive function after temporal 
lobectomy in children with temporal lobe epilepsy.
METHODS: This was a retrospective analysis of the data of 20 patients with 
Engel's class I or II outcomes after anterior temporal lobectomy with 
amygdalohippocampectomy between 2005 and 2008. Twenty children underwent 
resection of either dominant (n = 8) or nondominant (n = 12) temporal lobes, and 
their median age at surgery was 12.8 ± 3.2 years. We serially assessed 
intelligence and memory function as measured by the Korean-Wechsler Scales of 
Intelligence and Rey-Kim Memory test both before and after surgery.
RESULTS: Intelligence quotient (IQ) and memory quotient scores remained stable 
during a 3.6-year median follow-up in these children after the surgery. There 
was no decrease of IQ or memory quotient scores in either the dominant or 
non-dominant hemisphere groups. Later onset of epilepsy, a shorter epilepsy 
duration, a smaller number of antiepileptic drugs, and postoperative 
seizure-free outcomes were significant good predictors of the postoperative IQ.
CONCLUSION: Temporal lobectomy in children did not provoke a significant decline 
in intelligence or memory function. Early surgical treatment in children with 
intractable seizures of temporal lobe origin may result in better neurocognitive 
outcomes.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pediatrneurol.2014.09.006
PMID: 25439484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1532. Pediatr Neurol. 2015 Jan;52(1):104-6. doi: 10.1016/j.pediatrneurol.2014.08.023. 
Epub 2014 Sep 4.

Structural focal temporal lobe seizures in a child with lipoproteinosis.

Balestri M(1), Cappelletti S(2), Valeriani M(3), Vigevano F(3).

Author information:
(1)Neurology Division, Bambino Gesù Children Hospital, IRCCS, Rome, Italy; PhD 
School in Applied Neurological Sciences, University of Siena, Italy. Electronic 
address: martina.balestri@opbg.net.
(2)Unit of Clinical Psychology, Bambino Gesù Children's Hospital, IRCCS, Rome, 
Italy.
(3)Neurology Division, Bambino Gesù Children Hospital, IRCCS, Rome, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Lipoproteinosis is a rare autosomal recessive disorder caused by a 
mutation in a gene (ECM1) on chromosome 1q21. Alterations of membrane and 
vessels in the dermal-epidermal junction represent the pathologic background of 
the disease. Calcification in the temporal lobes and hippocampi are common and 
may be associated with epileptic seizures.
PATIENT DESCRIPTION: We describe a 7-year-old girl with lipoproteinosis who 
presented with hoarseness, typical skin lesions, and seizures.
RESULTS: Video electroencephalography demonstrated focal temporal lobe seizures. 
Intelligence quotient was normal, but psychologic tests revealed depressed mood. 
Neuroimaging revealed bilateral mesial temporal lobe calcifications.
CONCLUSIONS: The report reveals that the temporal lobe calcifications and the 
consequent epileptic seizures can appear even very early. The psychological 
signs may reflect limbic system dysfunction.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pediatrneurol.2014.08.023
PMID: 25439486 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1533. Asian J Psychiatr. 2014 Dec;12:50-7. doi: 10.1016/j.ajp.2014.06.011. Epub 2014 
Jul 10.

Distinguishing between autism spectrum disorder and attention deficit 
hyperactivity disorder by using behavioral checklists, cognitive assessments, 
and neuropsychological test battery.

Matsuura N(1), Ishitobi M(2), Arai S(3), Kawamura K(4), Asano M(5), Inohara 
K(6), Narimoto T(7), Wada Y(5), Hiratani M(8), Kosaka H(5).

Author information:
(1)Tokyo University of Social Welfare, 2-13-32, Marunouchi Naka-ku, Nagoya-City 
460-0002, Japan. Electronic address: matuuranaomi@yahoo.co.jp.
(2)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Faculty of Medical Sciences, University of 
Fukui, 23-3 MatsuokaShimoaizuki, Eiheiji-cho, Fukui 910-1193, Japan; Department 
of Child and Adolescent Mental Health, National Institute of Mental Health, 
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, 4-1-1 Ogawa-Higashi, Kodaira, 
Tokyo, 187-8553, Japan.
(3)Research Center for Child Mental Development, University of Fukui, 23-3 
MatsuokaShimoaizuki, Eiheiji-cho, Fukui 910-1193 Japan; Developmental Emotional 
Intelligence, Division of Developmental Higher Brain Functions, Department of 
Child Development United Graduate School of Child Development,23-3 
MatsuokaShimoaizuki, Eiheiji-cho, Fukui 910-1193, Japan.
(4)Hiratani Pediatric Clinic, 1409-2 Kitayotsui, Fukui-shi, Fukui 918-8205, 
Japan.
(5)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Faculty of Medical Sciences, University of 
Fukui, 23-3 MatsuokaShimoaizuki, Eiheiji-cho, Fukui 910-1193, Japan; Research 
Center for Child Mental Development, University of Fukui, 23-3 
MatsuokaShimoaizuki, Eiheiji-cho, Fukui 910-1193 Japan.
(6)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Faculty of Medical Sciences, University of 
Fukui, 23-3 MatsuokaShimoaizuki, Eiheiji-cho, Fukui 910-1193, Japan.
(7)Tokyo University of Social Welfare, 2-13-32, Marunouchi Naka-ku, Nagoya-City 
460-0002, Japan.
(8)Research Center for Child Mental Development, University of Fukui, 23-3 
MatsuokaShimoaizuki, Eiheiji-cho, Fukui 910-1193 Japan; Hiratani Pediatric 
Clinic, 1409-2 Kitayotsui, Fukui-shi, Fukui 918-8205, Japan.

Children with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and autism 
spectrum disorder (ASD) share many common symptoms, including attention deficit, 
behavioral problems, and difficulties with social skills. The aim of this study 
was to distinguish between ASD and ADHD by identifying the characteristic 
features of both the disorders, by using multidimensional assessments, including 
screening behavioral checklists, cognitive assessments, and comprehensive 
neurological battery. After screening for comorbid disorders, we carefully 
selected age-, sex-, IQ-, and socio-economic status-matched children with 
typical development (TD). In the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for children, a 
lower score was observed for the ASD group than for the TD group in Picture 
concept, which is a subscale of perceptual reasoning. A lower score was shown by 
the ADHD group than by the TD group in the spatial working memory test in the 
Cambridge Neuropsychological Test Automated Battery (CANTAB(®)). Although ASD 
and ADHD have many similar symptoms, they can be differentiated by focusing on 
the behavioral and cognitive characteristics of executive function.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajp.2014.06.011
PMID: 25440561 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1534. Acad Pediatr. 2015 May-Jun;15(3):282-8. doi: 10.1016/j.acap.2014.09.004. Epub 
2014 Nov 6.

Diagnosis of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder by developmental 
pediatricians in academic centers: A DBPNet study.

Feldman HM(1), Blum NJ(2), Gahman AE(3), Shults J(4); DBPNet Steering Committee.

Collaborators: Augustyn M, Barbaresi W, Fussell J, Hansen R, High P, Roizen N, 
Stancin T, Stein RE, Weitzman C, Wiley S, Wolraich M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Stanford University, Palo Alto, Calif. Electronic 
address: hfeldman@stanford.edu.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, Philadelphia, 
Pa; Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, 
Pa.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, Philadelphia, 
Pa.
(4)Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, 
Pa.

OBJECTIVE: To describe the developmental-behavioral pediatricians (DBPs), 
patients, and clinical practices used in the diagnostic assessments of 
attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) within all 12 academic medical 
centers comprising Developmental-Behavioral Pediatrics Research Network 
(DBPNet).
METHODS: Between December 2011 and June 2012, all DBPs who evaluated children 
with ADHD or autism spectrum disorders were asked to complete a diagnostic 
encounter survey form for up to 10 consecutive new cases that resulted in the 
diagnosis of ADHD or autism spectrum disorder. Fifty-two clinicians returned one 
or more forms for children diagnosed with ADHD (n = 211).
RESULTS: DBPs were generally experienced full-time academics. Children were 
76.3% male, 62.3% white, 24.5% African American, and 20.7% Hispanic. Mean child 
age was 8.0 + 3.1 years. DBPs reviewed parent ratings of behavior in 84.4% and 
teacher ratings in 69.2% of cases. They reviewed or completed at least one 
developmental assessment in 79.2% of cases: intelligence (60.2%), academic 
(57.8%), fine motor or visual motor (39.3%), speech/language (34.6%), or 
adaptive skills (28.9%). They made the diagnosis of coexisting conditions in 
82.7% of cases, including learning disabilities (31.8%), speech/language 
disorders (31.8%), anxiety (14.2%), externalizing disorders (10.9%), and sleep 
disorders (9.5%). Among 146 children not medicated before the visit, stimulant 
medications were initiated in 15 children (10.2%).
CONCLUSIONS: Within DBPNet, DBPs were highly likely to complete comprehensive 
assessments of ADHD that went beyond the requirements of primary care practice 
guidelines. They typically identified coexisting developmental and learning 
conditions. They did not typically prescribe medication at the end of diagnostic 
encounters.

Copyright © 2015 Academic Pediatric Association. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.acap.2014.09.004
PMID: 25441653 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1535. Anal Chim Acta. 2014 Dec 10;852:20-7. doi: 10.1016/j.aca.2014.09.045. Epub 2014 
Sep 28.

Firefly as a novel swarm intelligence variable selection method in spectroscopy.

Goodarzi M(1), dos Santos Coelho L(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biosystems, Faculty of Bioscience Engineering, Katholieke 
Universiteit Leuven - KU Leuven, Kasteelpark Arenberg 30, Heverlee B-3001, 
Belgium. Electronic address: mohammad.godarzi@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Electrical Engineering, Federal University of Parana (UFPR), 
Rua Cel. Francisco Heraclito dos Santos, 100, Curitiba, PR 81531-980, Brazil; 
Industrial and Systems Engineering Graduate Program (PPGEPS), Pontifical 
Catholic University of Parana (PUCPR), Rua Imaculada Conceição, 1155, Curitiba, 
PR 80215-901, Brazil.

A critical step in multivariate calibration is wavelength selection, which is 
used to build models with better prediction performance when applied to spectral 
data. Up to now, many feature selection techniques have been developed. Among 
all different types of feature selection techniques, those based on swarm 
intelligence optimization methodologies are more interesting since they are 
usually simulated based on animal and insect life behavior to, e.g., find the 
shortest path between a food source and their nests. This decision is made by a 
crowd, leading to a more robust model with less falling in local minima during 
the optimization cycle. This paper represents a novel feature selection approach 
to the selection of spectroscopic data, leading to more robust calibration 
models. The performance of the firefly algorithm, a swarm intelligence paradigm, 
was evaluated and compared with genetic algorithm and particle swarm 
optimization. All three techniques were coupled with partial least squares (PLS) 
and applied to three spectroscopic data sets. They demonstrate improved 
prediction results in comparison to when only a PLS model was built using all 
wavelengths. Results show that firefly algorithm as a novel swarm paradigm leads 
to a lower number of selected wavelengths while the prediction performance of 
built PLS stays the same.

Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.aca.2014.09.045
PMID: 25441875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1536. J Am Med Dir Assoc. 2014 Dec;15(12):873-80. doi: 10.1016/j.jamda.2014.09.010. 
Epub 2014 Oct 23.

The Study of Mental and Resistance Training (SMART) study—resistance training 
and/or cognitive training in mild cognitive impairment: a randomized, 
double-blind, double-sham controlled trial.

Fiatarone Singh MA(1), Gates N(2), Saigal N(3), Wilson GC(3), Meiklejohn J(3), 
Brodaty H(4), Wen W(5), Singh N(6), Baune BT(7), Suo C(8), Baker MK(9), Foroughi 
N(10), Wang Y(11), Sachdev PS(5), Valenzuela M(12).

Author information:
(1)Exercise, Health and Performance Faculty Research Group, Faculty of Health 
Sciences, Sydney Medical School, The University of Sydney, Lidcombe, New South 
Wales, Australia; Hebrew SeniorLife, Boston, MA; Jean Mayer USDA Human Nutrition 
Research Center on Aging at Tufts University, Boston, MA. Electronic address: 
maria.fiataronesingh@sydney.edu.au.
(2)Private Neuropsychology Practice, Mosman, New South Wales, Australia.
(3)Exercise Health and Performance, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of 
Sydney, Lidcombe, New South Wales, Australia.
(4)School of Psychiatry, University of New South Wales, Sydney, New South Wales, 
Australia.
(5)School of Psychiatry, University of New South Wales, Sydney, New South Wales, 
Australia; Center for Healthy Brain Ageing (CHeBA), NPI, Euroa Centre, Prince of 
Wales Hospital, Randwick, New South Wales, Australia.
(6)Royal Prince Alfred and Balmain Hospital Balmain Hospital, Balmain, New South 
Wales, Australia; Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, Camperdown, New South Wales, 
Australia.
(7)Department of Psychiatry, School of Medicine, University of Adelaide, 
Adelaide, South Australia, Australia.
(8)Monash Clinical and Imaging Neuroscience, School of Psychology and 
Psychiatry, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria, Australia.
(9)Exercise Health and Performance, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of 
Sydney, Lidcombe, New South Wales, Australia; Australian Catholic University, 
New South Wales, Australia.
(10)Clinical and Rehabilitation Research Group, Faculty of Health Sciences, The 
University of Sydney, Lidcombe, New South Wales, Australia.
(11)Department of Medicine and the Diabetes Center, University of California at 
San Francisco, San Francisco, CA.
(12)Regenerative Neuroscience Group, Brain and Mind Research Institute, The 
University of Sydney, Camperdown, New South Wales, Australia.

Erratum in
    J Am Med Dir Assoc. 2021 Feb;22(2):479-481.

Comment in
    J Am Med Dir Assoc. 2015 Nov 1;16(11):998-9.
    J Am Med Dir Assoc. 2015 Nov 1;16(11):999-1001.

BACKGROUND: Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) increases dementia risk with no 
pharmacologic treatment available.
METHODS: The Study of Mental and Resistance Training was a randomized, 
double-blind, double-sham controlled trial of adults with MCI. Participants were 
randomized to 2 supervised interventions: active or sham physical training (high 
intensity progressive resistance training vs seated calisthenics) plus active or 
sham cognitive training (computerized, multidomain cognitive training vs 
watching videos/quizzes), 2-3 days/week for 6 months with 18-month follow-up. 
Primary outcomes were global cognitive function (Alzheimer's Disease Assessment 
Scale-cognitive subscale; ADAS-Cog) and functional independence (Bayer 
Activities of Daily Living). Secondary outcomes included executive function, 
memory, and speed/attention tests, and cognitive domain scores.
RESULTS: One hundred adults with MCI [70.1 (6.7) years; 68% women] were enrolled 
and analyzed. Resistance training significantly improved the primary outcome 
ADAS-Cog; [relative effect size (95% confidence interval) -0.33 (-0.73, 0.06); P 
< .05] at 6 months and executive function (Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale 
Matrices; P = .016) across 18 months. Normal ADAS-Cog scores occurred in 48% 
(24/49) after resistance training vs 27% (14/51) without resistance training [P 
< .03; odds ratio (95% confidence interval) 3.50 (1.18, 10.48)]. Cognitive 
training only attenuated decline in Memory Domain at 6 months (P < .02). 
Resistance training 18-month benefit was 74% higher (P = .02) for Executive 
Domain compared with combined training [z-score change = 0.42 (0.22, 0.63) 
resistance training vs 0.11 (-0.60, 0.28) combined] and 48% higher (P < .04) for 
Global Domain [z-score change = .0.45 (0.29, 0.61) resistance training vs 0.23 
(0.10, 0.36) combined].
CONCLUSIONS: Resistance training significantly improved global cognitive 
function, with maintenance of executive and global benefits over 18 months.

Copyright © 2014 AMDA – The Society for Post-Acute and Long-Term Care Medicine. 
Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jamda.2014.09.010
PMID: 25444575 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1537. Schizophr Res. 2014 Dec;160(1-3):131-5. doi: 10.1016/j.schres.2014.09.035. Epub 
2014 Oct 20.

Effects of paternal age and offspring cognitive ability in early adulthood on 
the risk of schizophrenia and related disorders.

Sørensen HJ(1), Pedersen CB(2), Nordentoft M(3), Mortensen PB(2), Ehrenstein 
V(4), Petersen L(2).

Author information:
(1)Mental Health Centre, Capital Region of Denmark, Copenhagen University 
Hospital Bispebjerg, Bispebjerg Bakke 23, DK-2400 Copenhagen NV, Denmark; The 
Lundbeck Foundation Initiative for Integrative Psychiatric Research, iPSYCH, 
Denmark. Electronic address: holger.jelling.soerensen@regionh.dk.
(2)National Centre for Register-Based Research, Aarhus University, Fuglesangs 
Allé 4, DK-8210 Aarhus V, Denmark; The Lundbeck Foundation Initiative for 
Integrative Psychiatric Research, iPSYCH, Denmark.
(3)Mental Health Centre, Capital Region of Denmark, Copenhagen University 
Hospital Bispebjerg, Bispebjerg Bakke 23, DK-2400 Copenhagen NV, Denmark; The 
Lundbeck Foundation Initiative for Integrative Psychiatric Research, iPSYCH, 
Denmark.
(4)Department of Clinical Epidemiology, Aarhus University Hospital, Nørrebrogade 
44, DK-8000 Aarhus C, Denmark.

Advanced paternal age (APA) and intelligence quotient (IQ) are both associated 
with the risk of schizophrenia spectrum disorder (SSD) in young adult offspring. 
We hypothesized that the offspring SSD risk gradient associated with paternal 
age is mediated by offspring IQ. We investigated joint and separate associations 
of paternal age and offspring IQ with the risk of SSD. We used IQ routinely 
measured at conscription in Danish males (n=138,966) from cohorts born in 
1955-84 and in 1976-1993 and followed them from a year after the conscription 
through 2010. We used Cox regression to estimate the incidence rate ratio (IRR) 
of SSD. During the follow-up, 528 men developed SSD (incidence rate [IR] 5.2 and 
8.6 per 10,000 person-years in the first and second cohorts, respectively). APA 
was associated with higher risk of SSD (IRR, 1.32; 95% CI, 1.10-1.60 per a 
ten-year increase in paternal age). A higher IQ was associated with lower SSD 
risk (IRR, 0.68; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.63-0.74 per one SD increase). 
The IR of SSD was higher among persons who were draft-exempt for health reasons 
(<20% of the men). Overall, there was little evidence of lower premorbid IQ in 
APA-related SSD (individuals who developed SSD and were also offspring of older 
fathers). Our results do not support the notion that risk gradient for offspring 
SSD associated with paternal age is mediated by offspring IQ.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.schres.2014.09.035
PMID: 25445626 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1538. Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2015 May;13(5):987-91. doi: 
10.1016/j.cgh.2014.09.049. Epub 2014 Oct 28.

Cognitive reserve is a determinant of health-related quality of life in patients 
with cirrhosis, independent of covert hepatic encephalopathy and model for 
end-stage liver disease score.

Patel AV(1), Wade JB(2), Thacker LR(3), Sterling RK(1), Siddiqui MS(1), Stravitz 
RT(1), Sanyal AJ(1), Luketic V(1), Puri P(1), Fuchs M(1), Matherly S(1), White 
MB(1), Unser A(1), Heuman DM(1), Bajaj JS(4).

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition, Virginia 
Commonwealth University and McGuire VA Medical Center, Richmond, Virginia.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Virginia Commonwealth University and McGuire VA 
Medical Center, Richmond, Virginia.
(3)Department of Biostatistics, Virginia Commonwealth University and McGuire VA 
Medical Center, Richmond, Virginia.
(4)Division of Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition, Virginia 
Commonwealth University and McGuire VA Medical Center, Richmond, Virginia. 
Electronic address: jsbajaj@vcu.edu.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Covert hepatic encephalopathy (CHE) is associated with 
cognitive dysfunction, which affects daily function and health-related quality 
of life (HRQOL) in patients with cirrhosis. The effects of CHE and liver disease 
are determined by cognitive reserve—the ability of the brain to cope with 
increasing damage while continuing to function—and are assessed by composite 
intelligence quotient (IQ) scores. We examined cognitive reserve as a 
determinant of HRQOL in patients with cirrhosis.
METHODS: We performed a prospective study of 118 outpatients with cirrhosis 
without overt HE (age, 56 y). We studied cognition using the standard 
paper-pencil battery; patients with below-normal results for more than 2 tests 
were considered to have CHE. We also assessed HRQOL (using the sickness impact 
profile [SIP]), psychosocial and physical scores (a high score indicates reduced 
HRQOL), model for end-stage liver disease (MELD) scores, and cognitive reserve 
(using the Barona Index, a validated IQ analysis, based on age, race, education, 
residence area, and occupation). Cognitive reserve was divided into average and 
high groups (<109 or >109), and MELD and SIP scores were compared. We performed 
regression analyses, using total SIP score and psychosocial and physical 
dimensions as outcomes, with cognitive reserve, CHE, and MELD score as 
predictors.
RESULTS: Study participants had average MELD scores of 9, and 14 years of 
education; 81% were white, 63% were urban residents, their mean IQ was 108 ± 8, 
and 54% had average cognitive reserve (the remaining 46% had high reserves). CHE 
was diagnosed in 49% of patients. Cognitive reserve was lower in patients with 
CHE (109) than without (105; P = .02). Cognitive reserve correlated with total 
SIP and psychosocial score (both r = -0.4; P < .001) and physical score (r = 
-0.3; P = .01), but not MELD score (P = .8). Patients with high cognitive 
reserve had a better HRQOL, despite similar MELD scores. In regression analyses, 
cognitive reserve was a significant predictor of total SIP (P < .001), 
psychosocial (P < .001), and physical scores (P < .03), independent of CHE, 
MELD, or psychiatric disorders.
CONCLUSIONS: A higher cognitive reserve is associated with a better HRQOL in 
patients with cirrhosis, despite similar disease severity and prevalence. This 
indicates that patients with good cognitive reserve are better able to withstand 
the demands of cirrhosis progression and CHE, leading to a better HRQOL. 
Patients with lower cognitive reserve may need more dedicated and earlier 
measures to improve HRQOL. Cognitive reserve should be considered when 
interpreting HRQOL and cognitive tests to evaluate patients with cirrhosis.

Copyright © 2015 AGA Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cgh.2014.09.049
PMCID: PMC4404167
PMID: 25445772 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1539. Neurotoxicol Teratol. 2015 Jan-Feb;47:96-101. doi: 10.1016/j.ntt.2014.11.001. 
Epub 2014 Nov 8.

Association of lifetime exposure to fluoride and cognitive functions in Chinese 
children: a pilot study.

Choi AL(1), Zhang Y(2), Sun G(3), Bellinger DC(4), Wang K(5), Yang XJ(6), Li 
JS(6), Zheng Q(3), Fu Y(7), Grandjean P(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Health, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, 
MA, USA. Electronic address: achoi@hsph.harvard.edu.
(2)School of Stomatology, China Medical University, Shenyang, China.
(3)School of Public Health, China Medical University, Shenyang, China.
(4)Department of Environmental Health, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, 
MA, USA; Department of Neurology, Children's Hospital, Boston, USA.
(5)Mianning Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Xichang, Sichuan, China.
(6)Sichuan Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Chengdu, Sichuan, China.
(7)Center for Disease Control and Prevention of Liangshan Perfecture, Xichang, 
Sichuan, China.
(8)Department of Environmental Health, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, 
MA, USA; Institute of Public Health, University of Southern Denmark, Odense, 
Denmark.

Erratum in
    Neurotoxicol Teratol. 2015 Sep-Oct;51():89.

Comment in
    Neurotoxicol Teratol. 2015 Mar-Apr;48:78-9.

BACKGROUND: A systematic review and meta-analysis of published studies on 
developmental fluoride neurotoxicity support the hypothesis that exposure to 
elevated concentrations of fluoride in water is neurotoxic during development.
METHODS: We carried out a pilot study of 51 first-grade children in southern 
Sichuan, China, using the fluoride concentration in morning urine after an 
exposure-free night; fluoride in well-water source; and dental fluorosis status 
as indices of past fluoride exposure. We administered a battery of 
age-appropriate, relatively culture-independent tests that reflect different 
functional domains: the Wide Range Assessment of Memory and Learning (WRAML), 
Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children-Revised (WISC-IV) digit span and block 
design; finger tapping and grooved pegboard. Confounder-adjusted associations 
between exposure indicators and test scores were assessed using multiple 
regression models.
RESULTS: Dental fluorosis score was the exposure indicator that had the 
strongest association with the outcome deficits, and the WISC-IV digit span 
subtest appeared to be the most sensitive outcome, where moderate and severe 
fluorosis was associated with a digit span total score difference of -4.28 (95% 
CI -8.22, -0.33) and backward score with -2.13 (95% CI -4.24, -0.02).
CONCLUSIONS: This pilot study in a community with stable lifetime fluoride 
exposures supports the notion that fluoride in drinking water may produce 
developmental neurotoxicity, and that the dose-dependence underlying this 
relationship needs to be characterized in detail.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ntt.2014.11.001
PMID: 25446012 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1540. Eur Psychiatry. 2015 Feb;30(2):193-7. doi: 10.1016/j.eurpsy.2014.09.001. Epub 
2014 Oct 28.

The correlation between mid-brain serotonin transporter availability and 
intelligence quotient in healthy volunteers.

Tseng PY(1), Lee IH(2), Chen KC(3), Chen PS(3), Chiu NT(4), Yao WJ(4), Chu 
CL(1), Yeh TL(2), Yang YK(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, National Cheng Kung University Hospital, College of 
Medicine, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, National Cheng Kung University Hospital, College of 
Medicine, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan; Addiction Research 
Center, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, National Cheng Kung University Hospital, College of 
Medicine, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan; Addiction Research 
Center, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan; Department of 
Psychiatry, National Cheng Kung University, Dou-Liou Branch, Yunlin, Taiwan.
(4)Department of Nuclear Medicine, College of Medicine, National Cheng Kung 
University, Tainan, Taiwan.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, National Cheng Kung University Hospital, College of 
Medicine, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan; Addiction Research 
Center, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan. Electronic address: 
ykyang@mail.ncku.edu.tw.

PURPOSE: This study was performed to investigate the association between the 
mid-brain serotonin transporter (SERT) availability and intelligence quotient 
(IQ).
METHODS: One hundred and thirteen healthy participants, including 52 male and 61 
female subjects, were recruited. We used SPECT with [(123)I]ADAM images to 
determine the SERT availability in the mid-brain, and measured the subjects' IQ 
using the WAIS-R.
RESULTS: We found a significant positive correlation between the mid-brain SERT 
availability and the IQ of the participants. Even when controlling for age and 
sex, the significant association still existed.
CONCLUSION: This result implied that the higher the SERT binding in the 
mid-brain, the better the IQ in healthy participants.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eurpsy.2014.09.001
PMID: 25447350 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1541. J Intellect Disabil. 2015 Mar;19(1):83-93. doi: 10.1177/1744629514559313. Epub 
2014 Dec 1.

The effectiveness of using reinforcements in the classroom on the academic 
achievement of students with intellectual disabilities.

Adibsereshki N(1), Abkenar SJ(2), Ashoori M(2), Mirzamani M(3).

Author information:
(1)University of Welfare and Rehabilitation Sciences; Pediatric 
Neurorehabilitation center, Islamic Republic of Iran n.adib@hotmail.com.
(2)Special Education Teacher, Islamic Republic of Iran.
(3)Azad University, Islamic Republic of Iran.

The purpose of this study was to compare the effectiveness of two kinds of 
reinforcements, tangible reinforcements and social reinforcements, on the 
academic achievement of eighth-grade female students with intellectual 
disabilities in the science subject. The study was an experimental method by 
pretest, with a control group. The participants of the study comprised 45 female 
students with intellectual disabilities from three different middle schools in 
the province of Tehran. The multistage cluster method was chosen to determine 
the sample. The Wechsler intelligence test for matching the groups in terms of 
IQ and teacher-applied tests were used for all students to measure the progress 
of students in science. Data were analyzed by one-way analysis of variance. The 
results showed that (a) there was a significant difference in the academic 
achievement scores of the groups after applying the intervention and (b) the 
mean difference in achievement scores for the tangible reinforcements group was 
significantly higher than the social reinforcement group and the control group. 
Also the mean scores for the social reinforcement group were significantly 
higher than the control group.

© The Author(s) 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/1744629514559313
PMID: 25448525 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1542. Zhonghua Yi Xue Yi Chuan Xue Za Zhi. 2014 Dec;31(6):698-702. doi: 
10.3760/cma.j.issn.1003-9406.2014.06.004.

[Study of a Bethlem myopathy pedigree resulted from a novel mutation of COL6A3 
gene].

[Article in Chinese]

Cao W(1), Zhang Y, Zhong C, Lu G, Tan Y.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Reproduction and Stem Cell Engineering, Central South 
University, Changsha, Hunan 410078, P. R. China. tanyueqiu@csu.edu.cn.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the molecular etiology for a muscular dystrophy pedigree 
with target region sequencing platform using hereditary myopathy capture array.
METHODS: Specific gene testing was performed based on the clinical diagnosis. 
Since no pathogenic mutation was found, target region sequencing with hereditary 
myopathy capture array combined with Sanger sequencing and bioinformatics 
analysis were employed in turn. PolyPhen and NCBI were used to evaluate the 
pathogenicity of identified mutation and conservation of the gene.
RESULTS: Target region sequencing indicated the proband has carried a 
heterozygous c.3353 A>C mutation of COL6A3 gene, which was confirmed by 
Sanger-sequencing in 4 affected individuals from the family. The same mutation 
was not detected in healthy members of the pedigree. Bioinformatics analysis 
suggested that the mutation has caused a highly pathogenic amino acid 
substitution from Histidine to Proline. The affected patients featured normal 
intelligence with mild myogenic damage by muscle biopsy, slightly increased 
serum creatine kinase and slow disease progression, which was consistent with 
Bethlem myopathy.
CONCLUSION: Target region sequencing is an effective and efficient method for 
genetic testing. The heterozygous c.3353A>C mutation in exon 8 of the COL6A3 
gene probably underlies the Bethlem myopathy with autosomal dominant 
inheritance.

DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.issn.1003-9406.2014.06.004
PMID: 25449070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1543. Depress Anxiety. 2014 Dec;31(12):1007-17. doi: 10.1002/da.22330. Epub 2014 Nov 
28.

Microstructural brain abnormalities and symptom dimensions in child and 
adolescent patients with obsessive-compulsive disorder: a diffusion tensor 
imaging study.

Lázaro L(1), Calvo A, Ortiz AG, Ortiz AE, Morer A, Moreno E, Calvo R, Bargallo 
N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry and Psychology, Institute of 
Neurosciences, Hospital Clínic Universitari, Barcelona, Spain; Institut 
d'Investigacions Biomèdiques August Pi i Sunyer (IDIBAPS), Barcelona, Spain; 
Department of Psychiatry and Clinical Psychobiology, University of Barcelona, 
Barcelona, Spain; Centro de Investigación Biomédica en red de Salud Mental 
(CIBERSAM), Spain.

BACKGROUND: The aims of this study were to determine white matter (WM) 
microstructure abnormalities in obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) using 
diffusion tensor imaging, and to investigate whether these abnormalities differ 
according to OCD symptom dimensions.
METHODS: Sixty-three child and adolescent OCD patients (11-18 years old) and 37 
healthy subjects matched for gender, age, and estimated intelligence quotient 
were assessed by means of psychopathology scales and diffusion tensor magnetic 
resonance imaging.
RESULTS: Compared with healthy controls OCD patients showed a significant 
decrease (t = 3.79, P = .049 FDR-corrected) in fractional anisotropy (FA) in the 
anterior region of the corpus callosum (CC). In addition, mean diffusivity (MD), 
axial diffusivity (AD), and radial diffusivity (RD) values were significantly 
increased in OCD compared with controls in the CC and in several WM regions of 
the cingulate, frontal and occipital lobes, basal ganglia, cerebellum, and pons. 
Compared with healthy controls, OCD patients presenting the harm/checking 
dimension showed decreased FA in the CC and in the left anterior cingulate gyrus 
and caudate nucleus, whereas patients with a predominant contamination/washing 
symptom dimension presented significantly decreased FA in the left midbrain, 
lentiform nucleus, insula, and thalamus, and increased MD, AD, and RD in both 
the anterior lobes of cerebellum and in the pons.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings suggest WM abnormalities at the microstructural level 
in the pathogenesis of OCD. Moreover, WM abnormalities in OCD may vary according 
to the specific OCD symptom dimensions, thus indicating the clinical 
heterogeneity of the condition.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/da.22330
PMID: 25450164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1544. Ann Neurosci. 2014 Oct;21(4):155-9. doi: 10.5214/ans.0972.7531.210410.

Beating the Odds: Intact Neuropsychological Functioning despite TLE.

Nehra A(1), Chopra S(1).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Neuropsychology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, 
INDIA.

Patients with Temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) frequently display cognitive 
comorbidity and can have widespread network abnormalities, which might affect a 
variety of cognitive and intellectual functions. As a result, refractory TLE 
seems to be associated with slow but ongoing cognitive deterioration. The case 
is of a 32 year old, right handed male, engineering graduate, diagnosed with 
TLE- right mesial, 12 years ago. A number of head injuries were caused due to 
the seizure present, which includes a fall from height of 12 feet in childhood. 
The neuropsychological tests administered were Gesell's Drawing Test, Mini 
Mental State Examination, PGI Memory Scale, Battery of Performance Tests of 
Intelligence, Verbal Adult Intelligence Scale, Hamilton Rating Scale for 
Depression, Bender Visual Motor Gestalt Test and Dysfunction Analysis 
Questionnaire. No impairment found on orientation; average cognitive 
functioning; above average attention and concentration, verbal working memory, 
visual and verbal memory; average practical ability, abstract ability, average 
verbal intellectual ability; superior ability on comprehension and average 
performance ability. Mild to moderate impairment on perceptuo-motor functioning 
and an evidence of depression were present. Patient showed high dysfunction in 
personal, social, vocational and cognitive areas. The study highlights that even 
despite chronic epilepsy, with a series of head injuries due to the seizures; an 
individual can still have average neuropsychological abilities. Holistic 
neuropsychological rehabilitation along with Vocational Retraining would go a 
long way in the functional independence of the patient. Neuropsychologists have 
a significant role in the assessment, treatment, and rehabilitation of people 
with epilepsy.

DOI: 10.5214/ans.0972.7531.210410
PMCID: PMC4248473
PMID: 25452679


1545. Front Psychol. 2014 Nov 17;5:1283. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.01283. eCollection 
2014.

Magic in the machine: a computational magician's assistant.

Williams H(1), McOwan PW(1).

Author information:
(1)Computer Vision, School of Electronic Engineering and Computer Science, Queen 
Mary University of London London, UK.

A human magician blends science, psychology, and performance to create a magical 
effect. In this paper we explore what can be achieved when that human 
intelligence is replaced or assisted by machine intelligence. Magical effects 
are all in some form based on hidden mathematical, scientific, or psychological 
principles; often the parameters controlling these underpinning techniques are 
hard for a magician to blend to maximize the magical effect required. The 
complexity is often caused by interacting and often conflicting physical and 
psychological constraints that need to be optimally balanced. Normally this 
tuning is done by trial and error, combined with human intuitions. Here we focus 
on applying Artificial Intelligence methods to the creation and optimization of 
magic tricks exploiting mathematical principles. We use experimentally derived 
data about particular perceptual and cognitive features, combined with a model 
of the underlying mathematical process to provide a psychologically valid metric 
to allow optimization of magical impact. In the paper we introduce our 
optimization methodology and describe how it can be flexibly applied to a range 
of different types of mathematics based tricks. We also provide two case studies 
as exemplars of the methodology at work: a magical jigsaw, and a mind reading 
card trick effect. We evaluate each trick created through testing in laboratory 
and public performances, and further demonstrate the real world efficacy of our 
approach for professional performers through sales of the tricks in a reputable 
magic shop in London.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.01283
PMCID: PMC4233310
PMID: 25452736


1546. Psychiatry Res. 2014 Dec 30;220(3):846-54. doi: 10.1016/j.psychres.2014.10.003.

Neuropsychological profile and treatment-related features among patients with 
comorbidity between schizophrenia spectrum disorder and obsessive–compulsive 
disorder: is there evidence for a “schizo-obsessive” subtype?

Frías Á, Palma C, Farriols N, Becerra C, Álvarez A, Cañete J.

Epidemiological studies have found that obsessive–compulsive disorder (OCD) is 
estimated to occur in 12% of patients with schizophrenia. Whether this 
“schizo-obsessive” subgroup may be posited as a clinical entity with a distinct 
neuropsychological profile and treatment-related features remains unclear. A 
sample of 30 patients who met DSM-IV criteria for both 
schizophrenia/schizoaffective disorder and OCD was compared with 30 OCD subjects 
and with 37 patients with schizophrenia/schizoaffective disorder. 
Neuropsychological domains were measured by the Wechsler Adult Intelligence 
Scale - Third Edition (WAIS-III), the Trail Making Test (TMT), and the verbal 
fluency test (FAS). Treatment-related variables were assessed with the Clinical 
Global Improvement scale (CGI), the Drug Attitude Inventory (DAI), and 
dosage/type of antipsychotic medications. One-way analysis of variance revealed 
statistically significant differences among the three groups in “working 
memory,” “block design,” “semantic fluency,” TMT-A, and TMT-B. However, the 
Bonferroni correction showed no statistical differences between both psychotic 
groups. In addition, there were no significant differences among the three 
groups in the CGI and DAI, although “schizo-obsessive” patients tended to 
display slightly higher scores on these variables than the other groups. 
Overall, these findings do not support the hypothesis that comorbidity between 
schizophrenia spectrum disorders and OCD may reflect a distinct clinical entity. 
However, further research with larger sample sizes and a more comprehensive 
clinical assessment are needed. Our findings also underscore the fact that 
divergences among assessment instruments, as well as confounding variables, may 
influence results on neuropsychological domains.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2014.10.003
PMID: 25453638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1547. Psychiatry Res. 2014 Dec 30;224(3):311-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.pscychresns.2014.10.006. Epub 2014 Oct 18.

Cognitive and structural neuroimaging characteristics of schizophrenia patients 
with large, rare copy number deletions.

Kenneth Martin A(1), Robinson G(2), Reutens D(3), Mowry B(4).

Author information:
(1)University of Queensland, Queensland Brain Institute, St Lucia Queensland 
4072, Australia. Electronic address: a.martin11@uq.edu.au.
(2)University of Queensland, School of Psychology, St Lucia Queensland 4072, 
Australia.
(3)University of Queensland, Centre for Advanced Imaging, St Lucia Queensland 
4072, Australia.
(4)University of Queensland, Queensland Brain Institute, St Lucia Queensland 
4072, Australia; University of Queensland, Queensland Centre for Mental Health 
Research, Wacol 4076, Queensland.

Large (>500 Kb), rare (frequency <1%) deletions are associated with risk for 
schizophrenia. The aim of the study was to characterise patients with these 
deletions using measures of cognition, grey-matter volume and white-matter 
integrity. Patients with schizophrenia and large, rare deletions (SZ-del) (n=17) 
were assessed on a test of intelligence, the Wechsler Abbreviated Scale of 
Intelligence (WASI), and compared with age- and sex-matched schizophrenia 
patients without large, rare deletions (SZ-nodel) (n=65), and healthy controls 
(HCs) (n=50). Regional grey-matter differences were investigated using 
voxel-based morphometry (SZ-del=9; SZ-nodel=26; HC=19). White-matter integrity 
was assessed using fractional anisotropy (SZ-del=9; SZ-nodel=24; HC=15). 
Compared with schizophrenia patients without large, rare deletions, those with 
large, rare deletions had lower IQ; greater grey-matter volume in clusters with 
peaks in the left and right cerebellum, left hippocampus, and right rectal 
gyrus; and increased white-matter anisotropy in the body and genu of the corpus 
callosum. Compared with healthy controls, patients with large, rare deletions 
had reduced grey matter volume in the right calcarine gyrus. In sum, patients 
with large, rare deletions had structural profiles intermediate to those 
observed in healthy controls and schizophrenia patients without large, rare 
deletions, but had greater impairment in intelligence.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pscychresns.2014.10.006
PMID: 25453991 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1548. Psychiatry Res. 2014 Dec 30;220(3):1019-27. doi: 10.1016/j.psychres.2014.10.011.

Intelligence as a predictor of outcome in short- and long-term psychotherapy.

Knekt P, Saari T, Lindfors O.

Intelligence has been suggested as a suitability factor for short-term therapy 
whereas its possible effect on short-term versus long-term therapy still is 
unknown. The aim of this study was to compare the prediction of intelligence on 
the level of psychiatric symptoms and psychosocial functioning in 
psychotherapies of different lengths. A total of 251 outpatients from the 
Helsinki Psychotherapy Study, aged 20–46 years, and suffering from mood or 
anxiety disorders were allocated to two long-term and two short-term therapies. 
Intelligence was assessed at baseline with the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale 
(WAIS-R). Psychiatric symptoms and psychosocial functioning were assessed 5–10 
times during a 5-year follow-up using two primary symptom measures (HDRS and 
HARS) and one primary measure of psychosocial functioning (GAF). Short-term 
therapy was more effective than long-term therapy during the first year of 
follow-up. During the second to fourth follow-up year no differences between 
short- and long-term therapies or the intelligence groups were found. At the 
fifth follow-up year, however, long-term psychotherapy showed a statistically 
significantly larger change in all three primary measures compared to short-term 
therapy among those with higher intelligence. No differences between therapy 
groups were noted in those with lower intelligence. People with higher 
intelligence may benefit more from long-term than from short-term psychotherapy. 
These findings should be confirmed.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2014.10.011
PMID: 25454120 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1549. Am J Surg. 2015 Jan;209(1):26-33. doi: 10.1016/j.amjsurg.2014.09.015. Epub 2014 
Oct 22.

A multi-institutional study of the emotional intelligence of resident 
physicians.

McKinley SK(1), Petrusa ER(2), Fiedeldey-Van Dijk C(3), Mullen JT(2), Smink 
DS(4), Scott-Vernaglia SE(5), Kent TS(6), Black-Schaffer WS(7), Phitayakorn 
R(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Massachusetts General Hospital, 55 Fruit Street, 
Boston, MA 02114, USA. Electronic address: skmckinley@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Surgery, Massachusetts General Hospital, 55 Fruit Street, 
Boston, MA 02114, USA.
(3)ePsy Consultancy, Toronto, Canada.
(4)Department of Surgery, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.
(5)Department of Pediatrics, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.
(6)Department of Surgery, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, MA, USA.
(7)Department of Pathology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.

BACKGROUND: Although emotional intelligence (EI) may have a role in the 
development of Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education core 
competencies, few studies have measured resident EI across specialties. This 
study aimed to describe the EI of resident physicians across multiple 
specialties.
METHODS: Three hundred twenty five surgery, pediatric, and pathology residents 
at 3 large academic institutions were invited to complete the psychometrically 
validated Trait Emotional Intelligence Questionnaire.
RESULTS: The response rate was 42.8% (n = 139). Global EI of all residents 
(101.0 ± 8.1) was comparable with, but less variable than, the general 
population sample and was not statistically different between specialties. 
Compared with the norm sample, residents in the 3 specialty groups demonstrated 
unique combinations of areas of relative high and low development.
CONCLUSIONS: There exist distinct strengths and opportunities for the 
development for surgery, pediatrics, and pathology residents. Future 
investigations could use EI profiling to create educational interventions to 
develop specific areas of EI and assess correlation with resident performance.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjsurg.2014.09.015
PMID: 25454957 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1550. J Am Soc Hypertens. 2014 Nov;8(11):832-47.e1. doi: 10.1016/j.jash.2014.09.005. 
Epub 2014 Sep 8.

Maternal hypertensive pregnancy disorders and cognitive functioning of the 
offspring: a systematic review.

Tuovinen S(1), Eriksson JG(2), Kajantie E(3), Räikkönen K(4).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Behavioral Sciences, University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland. 
Electronic address: soile.tuovinen@helsinki.fi.
(2)Department of Chronic Disease Prevention, National Institute for Health and 
Welfare, Helsinki, Finland; Department of General Practice and Primary Health 
Care, University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland; Helsinki University Central 
Hospital, Unit of General Practice, Helsinki, Finland; Folkhälsan Research 
Centre, Helsinki, Finland; Vasa Central Hospital, Vasa, Finland.
(3)Department of Chronic Disease Prevention, National Institute for Health and 
Welfare, Helsinki, Finland; Hospital for Children and Adolescents, Institute of 
Clinical Medicine, University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland; Department of 
Obstetrics and Gynecology, Oulu University Hospital and University of Oulu, 
Oulu, Finland.
(4)Institute of Behavioral Sciences, University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland.

Hypertensive pregnancy disorders may affect the fetal developmental milieu and 
thus hint at mechanisms that link prenatal conditions with later developmental 
outcomes of the offspring. Here, we systematically review studies that have 
tested whether maternal pre-eclampsia, gestational hypertension, and 
hypertensive pregnancy disorders as a single diagnostic entity are associated 
with cognitive functioning of the offspring. Twenty-six studies were eligible 
for this review. Of them, 19 provided detailed methodological information deemed 
necessary to be included for a more detailed review. An overall conclusion is 
that, in the general population, maternal hypertensive disorders may be 
associated with lower cognitive ability of the offspring. Studies that extend to 
adulthood show the most consistent pattern of findings. It is possible that the 
associations arise during the lifetime or that the findings reflect improvements 
in management of these disorders. Evidence is, however, insufficient to conclude 
whether these associations are dissimilar in the offspring exposed to maternal 
pre-eclampsia and gestational hypertension, due to the varied criteria used 
across the different studies to distinguish between these conditions. The 
existing studies also vary in the definition of control groups, and very few 
have taken into account important confounding factors, including maternal 
pre-pregnancy obesity and lifestyle behaviors. Given the mixed pattern of 
findings and limitations related to internal and external validity, further 
studies are clearly warranted to clarify the associations.

Copyright © 2014 American Society of Hypertension. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jash.2014.09.005
PMID: 25455009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1551. Curr Biol. 2014 Nov 17;24(22):2733-6. doi: 10.1016/j.cub.2014.09.073. Epub 2014 
Oct 30.

Ravens intervene in others' bonding attempts.

Massen JJ(1), Szipl G(2), Spreafico M(3), Bugnyar T(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cognitive Biology, University of Vienna, Althanstrasse 14, 1090 
Vienna, Austria. Electronic address: jorgmassen@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Cognitive Biology, University of Vienna, Althanstrasse 14, 1090 
Vienna, Austria; Konrad Lorenz - Research Station (KLF), Core Facility, 
University of Vienna, Fischerau 11, 4645 Grünau, Austria.
(3)Konrad Lorenz - Research Station (KLF), Core Facility, University of Vienna, 
Fischerau 11, 4645 Grünau, Austria.

The competition for power in a complex social world is hypothesized to be a 
driving force in the evolution of intelligence. More specifically, power may be 
obtained not only by brute force but also by social strategies resembling human 
politics. Most empirical evidence comes from primate studies that report 
unprovoked aggression by dominants to maintain power by spreading fear and 
third-party interventions in conflicts. Coalitionary support has also been 
described in other animals and is often linked to social bonding. As coalitions 
can lead to a gain in power and fitness benefits, individuals may try to prevent 
coalitionary support or indirectly prevent others from forming social bonds that 
might lead to coalitions. Although there is some empirical evidence that 
coalitionary support can be manipulated, little is known about the indirect 
strategy. We show here that wild ravens (Corvus corax) regularly intervene in 
affiliative interactions of others even though such interventions are 
potentially risky and without immediate benefits. Moreover, the identities of 
both interveners and intervened pairs are not randomly distributed. Ravens with 
existing ties initiate most interventions, and ravens that are creating new ties 
are most likely to be the targets of interventions. These patterns are 
consistent with the idea that interventions function to prevent others from 
forming alliances and consequently becoming future competitors. We thus show 
previously undescribed social maneuvers in the struggle for power. These 
maneuvers are likely to be of importance in other social species as well.

Copyright © 2014 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cub.2014.09.073
PMCID: PMC4245706
PMID: 25455033 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1552. Psychiatr Clin North Am. 2014 Dec;37(4):679-705. doi: 10.1016/j.psc.2014.08.003. 
Epub 2014 Nov 25.

The importance of glia in dealing with stress.

Woodbury-Fariña MA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Puerto Rico School of Medicine, 307 
Calle Eleonor Roosevelt, San Juan, PR 00918-2720, USA. Electronic address: 
michel.woodbury@upr.edu.

Glia are starting to be accepted as the equal of neurons. Their impact on 
intelligence, environmental enrichment, and cerebral dominance forms the basis 
for understanding the role of glia in stress. Along with neurons, astrocytes, 
microglia, NG2 cells, and oligodendrocytes all contribute. Glia can even be 
protective against drug abuse. Glial effects on depression, mood disorders and 
schizophrenia are reviewed.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psc.2014.08.003
PMID: 25455071 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1553. J Prof Nurs. 2014 Nov-Dec;30(6):511-20. doi: 10.1016/j.profnurs.2014.06.005. 
Epub 2014 Jun 11.

A study of the influence of nursing education on development of emotional 
intelligence.

Shanta L(1), Gargiulo L(2).

Author information:
(1)Faculty Chair Chamberlain College of Nursing, Phoenix, AZ 85021.. Electronic 
address: shantalinda@cox.net.
(2)Vice President of Education, Ashworth College.

The Future of Nursing, Leading Change, Advancing Health (Institute of Medicine 
2011) challenged the profession of nursing to assume leadership of 
interdisciplinary health care teams. Leading these teams requires cognitive 
ability to manage highly charged and emotional work. Emotional intelligence (EI) 
is a characteristic necessary to process emotional information for creative 
problem solving. In addition, emerging evidence indicates there may be an 
association of nurses' EI and quality patient care (K. Adams et al., 2011). The 
foundation for development of competencies essential for nursing practice begins 
with nursing education. This quasi-experimental study investigated if 
baccalaureate-level nursing education increased the level of EI as 
operationalized by J. D. Mayer and P. Salovey's (2004) four-branch abilities 
model. Findings indicated that senior nursing students scored higher on the 
ability to understand and reason about emotions over pre-nursing students (P < 
.05); however, pre-nursing students scored higher than senior nursing students 
on the ability to accurately perceive emotions (P < .05). Regression analysis 
found that self-estimated grade point average was the only significant predictor 
of overall EI. Although the senior nursing students demonstrated strength in the 
ability to reason about emotion, the ability to perceive emotion seemed to have 
declined. This problem requires further research and action through transformed 
nursing education.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.profnurs.2014.06.005
PMID: 25455333 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1554. J Psychiatr Res. 2015 Jan;60:65-72. doi: 10.1016/j.jpsychires.2014.10.001. Epub 
2014 Oct 14.

Association between insulin resistance and cognition in patients with depressive 
disorders: exploratory analyses into age-specific effects.

Wroolie TE(1), Kenna HA(1), Singh MK(1), Rasgon NL(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Stanford University School 
of Medicine, USA.
(2)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Stanford University School 
of Medicine, USA. Electronic address: nrasgon@stanford.edu.

The current preliminary cross sectional study sought to examine the effects of 
insulin resistance (IR) and body mass index (BMI) on cognitive performance in 
adult patients with a history depression, currently not in an acute Major 
Depressive Episode (MDD). As an exploratory post hoc investigation, special 
consideration was given to adults <45 years and ≥45 years old. Subjects included 
men and women ages 19-71 (N = 39) with a history of a non-psychotic, 
non-melancholic MDD. All subjects underwent an insulin suppression test to 
determine Steady-State Plasma Glucose (SSPG), a battery of neuropsychological 
tests, and measurement of BMI. Multiple linear regressions were conducted to 
determine whether there were differential effects of direct (SSPG) and indirect 
(BMI) measures on cognition in the whole sample and within dichotomized age 
groups (<45 and ≥45 years). Preliminary results showed that in the sample as a 
whole, SSPG was not associated with worse performance on any cognitive 
variables, while higher BMI was associated with worse dominant hand fine motor 
skills. Within age groups, differential effects on cognition were found in 
relation to SSPG and BMI. Higher SSPG was associated with worse cognitive 
flexibility in the group <45 years, whereas higher BMI was associated with worse 
estimate of global intelligence in the group ≥45 years. The potential negative 
impact of IR in younger adults with depression raises concerns regarding the 
long-term impact on cognition and risk for Alzheimer's disease in undiagnosed 
younger adults with IR and depression. These negative consequences may not be 
seen with indirect measures of IR in younger adult populations. Overweight and 
obesity in older adults with a history of depression appear to have further 
negative impacts on cognition similar to deficits seen in patients with 
diabetes.
CLINICALTRIALSGOV IDENTIFIER: Clinical Trial NCT01106313.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpsychires.2014.10.001
PMID: 25455511 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1555. Ann Glob Health. 2014 Jul-Aug;80(4):303-14. doi: 10.1016/j.aogh.2014.09.005. 
Epub 2014 Nov 25.

The developmental neurotoxicity of arsenic: cognitive and behavioral 
consequences of early life exposure.

Tolins M(1), Ruchirawat M(2), Landrigan P(3).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Environmental Toxicology, Chulabhorn Research Institute, Laksi, 
Bangkok, Thailand; Departments of Preventive Medicine and Pediatrics, Icahn 
School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Electronic address: 
molly.tolins@mssm.edu.
(2)Laboratory of Environmental Toxicology, Chulabhorn Research Institute, Laksi, 
Bangkok, Thailand.
(3)Departments of Preventive Medicine and Pediatrics, Icahn School of Medicine 
at Mount Sinai, New York, NY.

BACKGROUND: More than 200 million people worldwide are chronically exposed to 
arsenic. Arsenic is a known human carcinogen, and its carcinogenic and systemic 
toxicity have been extensively studied. By contrast, the developmental 
neurotoxicity of arsenic has been less well described. The aim of this review 
was to provide a comprehensive review of the developmental neurotoxicity of 
arsenic.
METHODS: We reviewed the published epidemiological and toxicological literature 
on the developmental neurotoxicity of arsenic.
RESULTS: Arsenic is able to gain access to the developing brain and cause 
neurotoxic effects. Animal models link prenatal and early postnatal exposure to 
reduction in brain weight, reductions in numbers of glia and neurons, and 
alterations in neurotransmitter systems. Animal and in vitro studies both 
suggest that oxidative stress may be a mechanism of arsenic neurotoxicity. 
Fifteen epidemiological studies indicate that early life exposure is associated 
with deficits in intelligence and memory. These effects may occur at levels of 
exposure below current safety guidelines, and some neurocognitive consequences 
may become manifest only later in life. Sex, concomitant exposures, and timing 
of exposure appear to modify the developmental neurotoxicity of arsenic. Four 
epidemiological studies failed to show behavioral outcomes of arsenic exposure.
CONCLUSIONS: The published literature indicates that arsenic is a human 
developmental neurotoxicant. Ongoing and future prospective birth cohort studies 
will allow more precise definition of the developmental consequences of arsenic 
exposure in early life.

Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.aogh.2014.09.005
PMID: 25459332 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1556. Child Abuse Negl. 2014 Dec;38(12):1985-94. doi: 10.1016/j.chiabu.2014.10.010. 
Epub 2014 Oct 31.

Protective factors associated with resilient functioning in young adulthood 
after childhood exposure to violence.

Howell KH(1), Miller-Graff LE(2).

Author information:
(1)University of Memphis, USA.
(2)University of Notre Dame, USA.

Children may be subjected to many forms of violence and a significant number 
will experience multiple victimizations. These children are at high risk for 
developing psychological and emotional difficulties that may last into 
adulthood. Despite the increased risk for psychopathology, a substantial 
percentage of young adults exhibit resilient functioning following a history of 
childhood violence. This study examines the role of social support, 
spirituality, and emotional intelligence in promoting resilience during emerging 
adulthood. Participants included 321 young adult American college students, age 
18-24, who experienced childhood violence, including community violence, 
interpersonal aggression, child maltreatment, peer/sibling victimization, and/or 
sexual assault. Findings revealed that this sample was highly victimized, with 
an average of 9 violent experiences reported during childhood. Hierarchical 
multiple regression analyses indicated that after controlling for exposure to 
childhood victimization, other potentially traumatic events, and current 
depression and anxiety symptoms, higher resilience during emerging adulthood was 
associated with greater spirituality, greater emotional intelligence, and 
support from friends (but not from family). Findings suggest that the potency of 
protective factors outweighs that of adversity and psychopathology when 
predicting resilient functioning. By identifying variables that can enhance 
resilience, this study offers unique insight into how functioning may be 
improved by both individual and environmental factors.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chiabu.2014.10.010
PMID: 25459988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1557. Forensic Sci Int. 2015 Jan;246:55-64. doi: 10.1016/j.forsciint.2014.10.041. Epub 
2014 Nov 4.

The use of methylamphetamine chemical profiling in an intelligence-led 
perspective and the observation of inhomogeneity within seizures.

Morelato M(1), Beavis A(1), Tahtouh M(2), Ribaux O(3), Kirkbride KP(4), Roux 
C(5).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Forensic Science, University of Technology, Sydney, Broadway, NSW, 
Australia.
(2)Forensics, Australian Federal Police, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(3)Ecole des Sciences Criminelles, Université de Lausanne, Lausanne-Dorigny, 
Switzerland.
(4)School of Chemical and Physical Sciences, Flinders University, Bedford Park, 
South Australia, Australia.
(5)Centre for Forensic Science, University of Technology, Sydney, Broadway, NSW, 
Australia. Electronic address: Claude.Roux@uts.edu.au.

This study focuses on methylamphetamine (MA) seizures made by the Australian 
Federal Police (AFP) to investigate the use of chemical profiling in an 
intelligence perspective. Correlation coefficients were used to obtain a 
similarity degree between a population of linked samples and a population of 
unlinked samples. Although it was demonstrated that a general framework can be 
followed for the use of any forensic case data in an intelligence-led 
perspective, threshold values have to be re-evaluated for each type of illicit 
drug investigated. Unlike the results obtained in a previous study on 
3,4-methylenedioxymethylamphetamine (MDMA) seizures, chemical profiles of MA 
samples coming from the same seizure showed relative inhomogeneity, limiting 
their ability to link seizures. Different hypotheses were investigated to obtain 
a better understanding of this inhomogeneity although no trend was observed. 
These findings raise an interesting discussion in regards to the homogeneity and 
representativeness of illicit drug seizures (for intelligence purposes). 
Further, it also provides some grounds to discuss the initial hypotheses and 
assumptions that most forensic science studies are based on.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.forsciint.2014.10.041
PMID: 25460106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1558. J Affect Disord. 2015 Mar 1;173:146-53. doi: 10.1016/j.jad.2014.10.055. Epub 
2014 Nov 8.

An individual task meta-analysis of social cognition in euthymic bipolar 
disorders.

Samamé C(1), Martino DJ(1), Strejilevich SA(2).

Author information:
(1)Bipolar Disorders Program, Institute of Neurosciences, Favaloro University, 
Buenos Aires, Argentina; National Scientific and Technical Research Council 
(CONICET), Buenos Aires, Argentina.
(2)Bipolar Disorders Program, Institute of Neurosciences, Favaloro University, 
Buenos Aires, Argentina; Institute of Cognitive Neurology (INECO), Buenos Aires, 
Argentina. Electronic address: sstrejilevich@ffavaloro.org.

OBJECTIVE: Social cognition has been shown to be affected in bipolar disorders, 
even during euthymia. However, the social cognitive profile of this group of 
disorders remains to be ascertained, given that such a broad neuropsychological 
construct has not been systematically examined in bipolar subjects across 
different tasks. The aim of this study was to quantify the magnitude of 
patient-control differences for distinct social cognition assessment 
instruments: the Hinting Task, the Eyes Test, Faux Pas, the Mayer-Salovey-Caruso 
Emotional Intelligence Test, and emotional labeling using visual stimuli.
METHOD: Effect sizes were extracted from studies chosen according to more 
stringent criteria than previously used in systematic reviews on the topic and 
pooled by means of meta-analytical procedures.
RESULTS: No significant patient-control differences were found for the 
recognition of three basic emotions (happiness, sadness, and anger). Small but 
significant effect sizes favoring healthy controls (Hedges׳ g<0.5) were noted 
for emotional intelligence, the Hinting Task, the Eyes Test, and the recognition 
of fear, disgust, and surprise. A medium effect size (Hedges' g=0.58) was noted 
for the Faux Pas Test.
LIMITATIONS: The possible effects of other neurocognitive impairments on social 
cognitive performance could not be explored.
CONCLUSION: On average, small-to-moderate differences may exist between euthymic 
bipolar disorder subjects and healthy controls regarding social cognitive 
performance, with mental state decoding being more preserved than mental state 
reasoning. The influence of clinical and neurocognitive variables, which may 
play an important role in the social cognitive outcomes of these patients, 
deserves further clarification.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2014.10.055
PMID: 25462409 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1559. Res Dev Disabil. 2015 Jan;36C:303-310. doi: 10.1016/j.ridd.2014.10.027. Epub 
2014 Nov 4.

Persistence of visuo-constructional and executive deficits in adolescents after 
open-heart surgery.

von Rhein M(1), Kugler J(2), Liamlahi R(3), Knirsch W(4), Latal B(5), Kaufmann 
L(6).

Author information:
(1)Child Development Center, University Children's Hospital, Steinwiesstrasse 
75, 8032 Zurich, Switzerland; Department of Pediatrics, Kantonsspital 
Winterthur, Brauerstr. 15, 8401 Winterthur, Switzerland. Electronic address: 
Michael.vonRhein@kispi.uzh.ch.
(2)Child Development Center, University Children's Hospital, Steinwiesstrasse 
75, 8032 Zurich, Switzerland.
(3)Child Development Center, University Children's Hospital, Steinwiesstrasse 
75, 8032 Zurich, Switzerland; Division of Congenital Cardiovascular Surgery, 
University Children's Hospital Zurich/Children's Reseach Center, Switzerland.
(4)Division of Congenital Cardiovascular Surgery, University Children's Hospital 
Zurich/Children's Reseach Center, Switzerland; Childrens Research Center, 
University Children's Hospital, Steinwiesstrasse 75, 8032 Zurich, Switzerland.
(5)Child Development Center, University Children's Hospital, Steinwiesstrasse 
75, 8032 Zurich, Switzerland; Childrens Research Center, University Children's 
Hospital, Steinwiesstrasse 75, 8032 Zurich, Switzerland.
(6)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy A, General Hospital, Milser Straße 
10, 6060 Hall in Tyrol, Austria.

AIM: This study assesses whether previously reported performance deficiencies in 
visuo-constructional and executive functions, using the Rey-Osterrieth Complex 
Figure Test (ROCFT) in pediatric patients with congenital heart disease (CHD), 
persist into adolescence.
METHODS: 53 adolescent CHD patients (mean age 13.7) and 39 healthy controls 
(mean age 14.1) participated. ROCFT performance was measured by three different 
scoring methods, focusing either on quantitative (Meyers & Meyers, 1995), 
qualitative (Wallon & Mesmin, 2009), or both performance aspects (Bernstein & 
Waber, 1996). Potential confounders (i.e., intelligence and visuomotor 
integration) and surgery-related risk factors were included in the data 
analysis.
RESULTS: Adolescents with CHD demonstrated immature copy and recall approaches 
on the ROCFT using the qualitative system by Wallon and Mesmin (p<.001). Memory 
performance was also predicted by Bernstein and Waber scores (p<.03), whereas 
group differences were not significant according to the other scoring methods. 
Intelligence and visuomotor skills, but not surgery-related risk factors, were 
positively correlated with ROCFT performance (each p<.02). Interpretation: 
Visuoconstructional and executive deficiencies could be found in adolescent 
patients with CHD. However, not all ROCFT scoring methods were equally apt to 
detect group differences: especially the qualitative scoring method developed by 
Wallon and Mesmin seems sufficiently sensitive to detect long-lasting 
visuo-constructional and executive deficiencies in CHD patients.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ridd.2014.10.027
PMID: 25462490


1560. Res Dev Disabil. 2015 Jan;36C:498-504. doi: 10.1016/j.ridd.2014.10.046. Epub 
2014 Nov 12.

Screening for intellectual disability in persons with a substance abuse problem: 
Exploring the validity of the Hayes Ability Screening Index in a Dutch-speaking 
sample.

To WT(1), Vanheule S(2), Vanderplasschen W(3), Audenaert K(4), Vandevelde S(3).

Author information:
(1)University College Ghent, Faculty of Education, Health and Social Work, 
Voskenslaan 362, 9000 Ghent, Belgium; Ghent University, Department of Special 
Education, Henri Dunantlaan 2, 9000 Ghent, Belgium. Electronic address: 
wingting.to@hogent.be.
(2)Ghent University, Department of Psychoanalysis and Clinical Consulting, Henri 
Dunantlaan 2, 9000 Ghent, Belgium.
(3)Ghent University, Department of Special Education, Henri Dunantlaan 2, 9000 
Ghent, Belgium.
(4)Ghent University, Department of Psychiatry and Medical Psychology, De 
Pintelaan 185, 9000 Ghent, Belgium.

There is an increasing interest in screening instruments to detect intellectual 
disability (ID) in a quick and accurate way in mental health services as well as 
in the criminal justice system in order to provide appropriate support for 
people with undetected needs caused by ID. An instrument that has been proven to 
be useful in both settings is the Hayes Ability Screening Index (HASI). This 
study assessed the validity of the Dutch version of the HASI in persons with a 
substance abuse problem residing in mental health services, whether or not 
mandated to treatment by court order. The HASI was conducted along with the 
Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale III as the criterion for validity to 90 
participants. Additionally, the influence of psychiatric disorder and medication 
use on the HASI result was examined. A significant positive relationship was 
found between the two instruments, demonstrating convergent validity. Using a 
Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) curve analysis, the discriminative 
ability of the HASI with a cut-off score of 85 was found to be adequate, 
yielding in a good balance between sensitivity and specificity. The HASI was not 
distorted by the presence of the substance abuse problem or other psychiatric 
illnesses and medication did not influence the HASI scores in this study. These 
findings indicate that the HASI provides a time-efficient and resource-conscious 
way to detect ID in persons with a substance problem, thus addressing a critical 
need in mental health settings.

Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ridd.2014.10.046
PMID: 25462510


1561. Neuroimage. 2015 Feb 15;107:136-145. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2014.11.033. Epub 
2014 Nov 21.

Neural correlates of the happy life: the amplitude of spontaneous low frequency 
fluctuations predicts subjective well-being.

Kong F(1), Hu S(2), Wang X(1), Song Y(1), Liu J(3).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Cognitive Neuroscience and Learning & IDG/McGovern 
Institute for Brain Research, Beijing Normal University, Beijing, China; Center 
for Collaboration and Innovation in Brain and Learning Sciences, Beijing Normal 
University, Beijing, China.
(2)School of Psychology, Beijing Normal University, Beijing, China.
(3)School of Psychology, Beijing Normal University, Beijing, China. Electronic 
address: liujia@bnu.edu.cn.

Subjective well-being is assumed to be distributed in the hedonic hotspots of 
subcortical and cortical structures. However, the precise neural correlates 
underlying this construct, especially how it is maintained during the resting 
state, are still largely unknown. Here, we explored the neural basis of 
subjective well-being by correlating the regional fractional amplitude of low 
frequency fluctuations (fALFF) with the self-reported subjective well-being of 
healthy individuals. Behaviorally, we demonstrated that subjective well-being 
contained two related but distinct components: cognitive and affective 
well-being. Neurally, we showed that the fALFF in the bilateral posterior 
superior temporal gyrus (pSTG), right posterior mid-cingulate cortex (pMCC), 
right thalamus, left postcentral gyrus (PCG), right lingual gyrus, and left 
planum temporale (PT) positively predicted cognitive well-being, whereas the 
fALFF in the bilateral superior frontal gyrus (SFG), right orbitofrontal cortex 
(OFC), and left inferior temporal gyrus (ITG) negatively predicted cognitive 
well-being. In contrast, only the fALFF in the right amygdala reliably predicted 
affective well-being. Furthermore, emotional intelligence partially mediated the 
effects of the right pSTG and thalamus on cognitive well-being, as well as the 
effect of the right amygdala on affective well-being. In summary, we provide the 
first evidence that spontaneous brain activity in multiple regions associated 
with sensation, social perception, cognition, and emotion contributes to 
cognitive well-being, whereas the spontaneous brain activity in only one 
emotion-related region contributes to affective well-being, suggesting that the 
spontaneous activity of the human brain reflect the efficiency of subjective 
well-being.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2014.11.033
PMID: 25463465 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1562. J Pediatr. 2015 Apr;166(4):834-9.e1. doi: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2014.11.002. Epub 2014 
Nov 6.

Postnatal human cytomegalovirus infection in preterm infants has long-term 
neuropsychological sequelae.

Brecht KF(1), Goelz R(2), Bevot A(1), Krägeloh-Mann I(1), Wilke M(1), Lidzba 
K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Neurology and Developmental Medicine, University 
Children's Hospital, Tübingen, Germany.
(2)Department of Neonatology, University Children's Hospital, Tübingen, Germany.

Comment in
    J Pediatr. 2015 Apr;166(4):795-8.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate whether an early postnatal infection poses a long-term 
risk for neuropsychological impairment to neonates born very prematurely.
STUDY DESIGN: Adolescents born very preterm (n = 42, 11.6-16.2 years, mean = 
13.9; 15 girls; 19 with and 23 without an early postnatal human cytomegalovirus 
[CMV] infection) and typically developing, term born controls (n = 24, 11.3-16.6 
years, mean = 13.6; 12 girls) were neuropsychologically assessed with the German 
version of the Wechsler Intelligence Scale and the Developmental Test for Visual 
Perception.
RESULTS: As expected, the full cohort of adolescents born preterm had 
significantly lower scores than term born controls on IQ (preterm: mean [SD] = 
98.43 [14.83], control: 110.00 [8.10], P = .015) and on visuoperceptive 
abilities (95.64 [12.87] vs 106.24 [9.95], P = .016). Furthermore, adolescents 
born preterm with early postnatal CMV infection scored significantly lower than 
those without this infection regarding overall cognitive abilities (92.67 
[14.71] vs 102.75 [13.67], P = .030), but not visuoperceptive abilities (91.22 
[10.88] vs 98.96 [13.45], P > .05).
CONCLUSIONS: In our small but well-characterized group, our results provide 
evidence for adverse effects of early postnatal CMV infection on overall 
cognitive functions in adolescents born preterm. If confirmed, these results 
support the implementation of preventive measures.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2014.11.002
PMID: 25466679 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1563. J Am Coll Radiol. 2014 Dec;11(12 Pt B):1238-40. doi: 10.1016/j.jacr.2014.09.008. 
Epub 2014 Dec 1.

Business intelligence for the radiologist: making your data work for you.

Cook TS(1), Nagy P(2).

Author information:
(1)Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
Electronic address: tessa.cook@uphs.upenn.edu.
(2)Russell H. Morgan Department of Radiology and Radiological Sciences, Johns 
Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland; Johns Hopkins Armstrong Institute for 
Patient Safety and Quality, Baltimore, Maryland.

Although it remains absent from most programs today, business intelligence (BI) 
has become an integral part of modern radiology practice management. BI 
facilitates the transition away from lack of understanding about a system and 
the data it produces toward incrementally more sophisticated comprehension of 
what has happened, could happen, and should happen. The individual components 
that make up BI are common across industries and include data extraction and 
transformation, process analysis and improvement, outcomes measures, performance 
assessment, graphical dashboarding, alerting, workflow analysis, and scenario 
modeling. As in other fields, these components can be directly applied in 
radiology to improve workflow, throughput, safety, efficacy, outcomes, and 
patient satisfaction. When approaching the subject of BI in radiology, it is 
important to know what data are available in your various electronic medical 
records, as well as where and how they are stored. In addition, it is critical 
to verify that the data actually represent what you think they do. Finally, it 
is critical for success to identify the features and limitations of the BI tools 
you choose to use and to plan your practice modifications on the basis of 
collected data. It is equally important to remember that BI plays a critical 
role in continuous process improvement; whichever BI tools you choose should be 
flexible to grow and evolve with your practice.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jacr.2014.09.008
PMID: 25467900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1564. Int J Pediatr Otorhinolaryngol. 2015 Jan;79(1):36-41. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijporl.2014.11.001. Epub 2014 Nov 11.

Studying some elicited verbal prosodic patterns in Egyptian specific language 
impaired children.

Azab SN(1), Ashour H(2).

Author information:
(1)Unit of Phoniatrics, Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Faculty of Medicine, 
Beni Suef University, Egypt. Electronic address: safynagib@hotmail.com.
(2)Unit of Phoniatrics, Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Faculty of Medicine, 
Beni Suef University, Egypt.

BACKGROUND: Prosody is the aspect of language that conveys emotion by changes in 
tone, rhythm, and emphasis during speech and the term specific language 
impairment (SLI) refers to children whose language development is substantially 
below their chronological age, despite a normal nonverbal intelligence and no 
obvious neurological or physiological impairments, or emotional and/or social 
difficulties that could impact language use.
PURPOSE: To assess prosodic skills in Arabic speaking children with specific 
language impairment, in order to answer the question "Are SLI children 
dysprosodic?" And to be put in consideration while choosing and applying the 
training procedure hence, qualifies the rehabilitation program.
METHODS: Thirty Egyptian normal children and 30 Egyptian children with specific 
language impairment (SLI) aged between 4 and 6 years were included in this study 
and were subjected to psychometric evaluation, audio logical assessment, Arabic 
language test, articulation test, and assessment protocol of prosody.
RESULTS: Egyptian specific language impaired children have lower prosodic skills 
scores than control group with positive significant correlation between total 
language ages of specific language impaired children and total prosodic scores.
CONCLUSION: Egyptian specific language impaired children have dysprosodic skills 
and the intervention program must include prosodic rehabilitation program in 
order to achieve higher improvement level.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijporl.2014.11.001
PMID: 25468460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1565. Epilepsy Behav. 2015 Jan;42:147-52. doi: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2014.10.034. Epub 2014 
Nov 18.

Parenting stress does not normalize after child's epilepsy surgery.

Braams O(1), Meekes J(2), Braun K(3), Schappin R(4), van Rijen PC(5), Hendriks 
MP(6), Jennekens-Schinkel A(7), van Nieuwenhuizen O(8).

Author information:
(1)Sector of Neuropsychology for Children and Adolescents, University Medical 
Center Utrecht, PO Box 85090, 3508 AB Utrecht, The Netherlands; Brain Center 
Rudolf Magnus, University Medical Center Utrecht, PO Box 85500, 3508 GA Utrecht, 
The Netherlands; Department of Pediatric Psychology and Social Work, University 
Medical Center Utrecht, PO Box 85090, 3508 AB Utrecht, The Netherlands; Bio 
Research Center for Children, Wekeromseweg 8, 6816 VS Arnhem, The Netherlands. 
Electronic address: Obraams@umcutrecht.nl.
(2)Sector of Neuropsychology for Children and Adolescents, University Medical 
Center Utrecht, PO Box 85090, 3508 AB Utrecht, The Netherlands; Brain Center 
Rudolf Magnus, University Medical Center Utrecht, PO Box 85500, 3508 GA Utrecht, 
The Netherlands; Bio Research Center for Children, Wekeromseweg 8, 6816 VS 
Arnhem, The Netherlands. Electronic address: meekes.joost@gmail.com.
(3)Brain Center Rudolf Magnus, University Medical Center Utrecht, PO Box 85500, 
3508 GA Utrecht, The Netherlands; Department of Child Neurology, University 
Medical Center Utrecht, PO Box 85090, 3508 AB Utrecht, The Netherlands. 
Electronic address: K.Braun@umcutrecht.nl.
(4)Department of Pediatric Psychology and Social Work, University Medical Center 
Utrecht, PO Box 85090, 3508 AB Utrecht, The Netherlands. Electronic address: 
R.Schappin@umcutrecht.nl.
(5)Brain Center Rudolf Magnus, University Medical Center Utrecht, PO Box 85500, 
3508 GA Utrecht, The Netherlands; Department of Neurosurgery, University Medical 
Center Utrecht, PO Box 85500, 3508 GA Utrecht, The Netherlands. Electronic 
address: P.v.Rijen@umcutrecht.nl.
(6)Academic Centre for Epileptology, Kempenhaeghe, Sterkselseweg 65, 5591 VE 
Heeze, The Netherlands; Donders Institute for Brain, Cognition and Behaviour, 
Radboud University, Kapittelweg 29, 6525 EN Nijmegen, The Netherlands. 
Electronic address: HendriksM@kempenhaeghe.nl.
(7)Sector of Neuropsychology for Children and Adolescents, University Medical 
Center Utrecht, PO Box 85090, 3508 AB Utrecht, The Netherlands; Brain Center 
Rudolf Magnus, University Medical Center Utrecht, PO Box 85500, 3508 GA Utrecht, 
The Netherlands; Bio Research Center for Children, Wekeromseweg 8, 6816 VS 
Arnhem, The Netherlands. Electronic address: A.Jennekens@umcutrecht.nl.
(8)Brain Center Rudolf Magnus, University Medical Center Utrecht, PO Box 85500, 
3508 GA Utrecht, The Netherlands; Bio Research Center for Children, Wekeromseweg 
8, 6816 VS Arnhem, The Netherlands. Electronic address: 
OnnovanNieuwenhuizen@umcutrecht.nl.

PURPOSE: This study aimed to investigate parenting stress expressed by parents 
before and two years after their children's epilepsy surgery.
SUBJECTS: Parents of 31 consecutively included surgery patients with epilepsy 
and parents of 31 healthy sex- and age-matched control children were the 
subjects of this study. Materials and procedure: The questionnaire 'Parenting 
Stress Index', which distinguishes a Parent domain (stress leading parents to 
feel themselves inadequate) from a Child domain (child features felt by parent 
to cause stress) was completed before surgery of the patients and two years 
thereafter. At both time points, intelligence examination of the child was part 
of a comprehensive neuropsychological assessment, as were evaluations of recent 
stress-enhancing life events and epilepsy severity.
RESULTS: Prior to surgery, total parenting stress was significantly higher in 
parents of patients than in parents of controls. Two years after surgery, total 
parenting stress had decreased significantly in parents of patients. The scores 
on parent-related subscales Role Restriction and Spouse and on the child-related 
subscale Distractibility/Hyperactivity, all relatively high before surgery, 
decreased significantly. Still, parents of patients experienced significantly 
more stress compared with parents of controls mainly because of persistently 
higher stress scores in parents of patients on the subscale Role Restriction 
(Parent domain) and on five of six subscales in the Child domain. Intelligence 
of the child was associated with parenting stress: the lower the child's 
intelligence, the higher the stress score on the subscale 
Distractibility/Hyperactivity and the lower the stress score on the subscale 
Mood. Stress decreased more in parents of patients who became seizure-free after 
surgery than in parents of patients with recurrent seizures.
CONCLUSIONS: Parenting stress decreases but does not normalize in the first two 
years after epilepsy surgery. Parents should be offered counseling on 
epilepsy-related intricacies contributing to parenting stress, immediately after 
diagnosis as well as after epilepsy surgery, notwithstanding the resulting 
seizure status of the child.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2014.10.034
PMID: 25468727 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1566. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2014 Dec 2;55(12):8366-70. doi: 
10.1167/iovs.14-15807.

Square wave jerks and anxiety as distinctive biomarkers for anorexia nervosa.

Phillipou A(1), Rossell SL(2), Castle DJ(3), Gurvich C(4), Abel LA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Optometry & Vision Sciences, The University of Melbourne, 
Melbourne, Australia.
(2)Brain and Psychological Sciences Research Centre, Swinburne University of 
Technology, Hawthorn, Melbourne, Australia.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, The University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Australia 
Department of Psychiatry, St Vincent's Hospital, Fitzroy, Melbourne, Australia 
Faculty of Health Sciences, Australian Catholic University, Fitzroy, Melbourne, 
Australia.
(4)Monash Alfred Psychiatry Research Centre, Melbourne, Australia.

PURPOSE: The factors contributing to the cause and maintenance of anorexia 
nervosa (AN) are poorly understood, though increasing interest surrounds the 
neurobiological underpinnings of the condition. The examination of saccadic eye 
movements has proven useful in our understanding of the neurobiology of some 
other psychiatric illnesses, as they utilize identifiable brain circuits. Square 
wave jerks (SWJs), which describe an involuntary saccade away and back to 
fixation, have been observed to occur at abnormally high rates in 
neurodegenerative disorders and some psychiatric illnesses, but have not been 
examined in AN. Therefore, the aim of this study was to investigate whether 
individuals with AN and healthy control (HC) individuals differ in SWJ rate 
during attempted fixation.
METHODS: Square wave jerk frequency was compared across 23 female participants 
with AN and 22 HC participants matched for age, sex, and premorbid intelligence.
RESULTS: Anorexia nervosa participants were found to make SWJs at a 
significantly higher rate than HC participants. The rate of SWJs in AN was also 
found to negatively correlate with anxiety. Square wave jerk rate and anxiety 
were found to correctly classify groups, with an accuracy of 87% for AN 
participants and 95.5% for HCs.
CONCLUSIONS: Given our current understanding of saccadic eye movements, the 
findings suggest a potential role of γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA) in the superior 
colliculus, frontal eye fields, or posterior parietal cortex in the 
psychopathology of AN.

© ARVO.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.14-15807
PMID: 25468894 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1567. Clin Med (Lond). 2014 Dec;14 Suppl 6:s7-11. doi: 10.7861/clinmedicine.14-6-s7.

Thyroid and iodine nutritional status: a UK perspective.

Vanderpump M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Royal Free London NHS Foundation Trust, London, 
UK mark.vanderpump@nhs.net.

Iodine is an essential component of the thyroid hormones, which play a crucial 
role in brain and neurological development. At least one-third of the world's 
population is estimated to be iodine deficient predominantly in developing 
countries. Recently concern had also been expressed about the iodine status in 
industrialised countries such as the UK. A recent survey of the UK iodine status 
found that that more than two-thirds of schoolgirls aged 14-15 years were iodine 
deficient due to the reduced milk intake. Maternal iodine deficiency in 
pregnancy is correlated with cognitive outcomes such as intelligence quotient 
and reading ability in offspring. No randomised trial data exist for iodine 
supplementation in mild-moderate iodine-deficient pregnant women. It is possible 
to combine population interventions to reduce population salt intake with salt 
iodisation programmes in order to maintain adequate levels of iodine nutrition.

© 2014 Royal College of Physicians.

DOI: 10.7861/clinmedicine.14-6-s7
PMID: 25468924 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1568. Biosecur Bioterror. 2014 Nov-Dec;12(6):325-36. doi: 10.1089/bsp.2014.0031.

Interfacing a biosurveillance portal and an international network of 
institutional analysts to detect biological threats.

Riccardo F, Shigematsu M, Chow C, McKnight CJ, Linge J, Doherty B, Dente MG, 
Declich S, Barker M, Barboza P, Vaillant L, Donachie A, Mawudeku A, Blench M, 
Arthur R.

The Early Alerting and Reporting (EAR) project, launched in 2008, is aimed at 
improving global early alerting and risk assessment and evaluating the 
feasibility and opportunity of integrating the analysis of biological, chemical, 
radionuclear (CBRN), and pandemic influenza threats. At a time when no 
international collaborations existed in the field of event-based surveillance, 
EAR's innovative approach involved both epidemic intelligence experts and 
internet-based biosurveillance system providers in the framework of an 
international collaboration called the Global Health Security Initiative, which 
involved the ministries of health of the G7 countries and Mexico, the World 
Health Organization, and the European Commission. The EAR project pooled data 
from 7 major internet-based biosurveillance systems onto a common portal that 
was progressively optimized for biological threat detection under the guidance 
of epidemic intelligence experts from public health institutions in Canada, the 
European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, France, Germany, Italy, 
Japan, the United Kingdom, and the United States. The group became the first end 
users of the EAR portal, constituting a network of analysts working with a 
common standard operating procedure and risk assessment tools on a rotation 
basis to constantly screen and assess public information on the web for events 
that could suggest an intentional release of biological agents. Following the 
first 2-year pilot phase, the EAR project was tested in its capacity to monitor 
biological threats, proving that its working model was feasible and 
demonstrating the high commitment of the countries and international 
institutions involved. During the testing period, analysts using the EAR 
platform did not miss intentional events of a biological nature and did not 
issue false alarms. Through the findings of this initial assessment, this 
article provides insights into how the field of epidemic intelligence can 
advance through an international network and, more specifically, how it was 
further developed in the EAR project.

DOI: 10.1089/bsp.2014.0031
PMCID: PMC4248243
PMID: 25470464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1569. J Neurosci. 2014 Dec 3;34(49):16358-68. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.1857-14.2014.

Sleep spindles and intelligence: evidence for a sexual dimorphism.

Ujma PP(1), Konrad BN(2), Genzel L(3), Bleifuss A(4), Simor P(5), Pótári A(1), 
Körmendi J(1), Gombos F(6), Steiger A(4), Bódizs R(7), Dresler M(8).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Behavioral Science, Semmelweis University, H-1089 Budapest, 
Hungary.
(2)Donders Institute for Brain, Cognition and Behaviour, Radboud University 
Medical Centre, 6525 EN Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
(3)Centre for Cognitive and Neural Systems, University of Edinburgh, EH8 9JZ 
Edinburgh, United Kingdom.
(4)Max Planck Institute of Psychiatry, 80804 Munich, Germany.
(5)Department of Cognitive Sciences, Budapest University of Technology and 
Economics, 1111 Budapest, Hungary, Nyírö Gyula Hospital, National Institute of 
Psychiatry and Addictions, H-1135 Budapest, Hungary.
(6)Department of General Psychology, Pázmány Péter Catholic University, H-1088 
Budapest, Hungary, and.
(7)Institute of Behavioral Science, Semmelweis University, H-1089 Budapest, 
Hungary, Department of General Psychology, Pázmány Péter Catholic University, 
H-1088 Budapest, Hungary, and.
(8)Donders Institute for Brain, Cognition and Behaviour, Radboud University 
Medical Centre, 6525 EN Nijmegen, The Netherlands, Max Planck Institute of 
Psychiatry, 80804 Munich, Germany, dresler@mpipsykl.mpg.de.

Sleep spindles are thalamocortical oscillations in nonrapid eye movement sleep, 
which play an important role in sleep-related neuroplasticity and offline 
information processing. Sleep spindle features are stable within and vary 
between individuals, with, for example, females having a higher number of 
spindles and higher spindle density than males. Sleep spindles have been 
associated with learning potential and intelligence; however, the details of 
this relationship have not been fully clarified yet. In a sample of 160 adult 
human subjects with a broad IQ range, we investigated the relationship between 
sleep spindle parameters and intelligence. In females, we found a positive 
age-corrected association between intelligence and fast sleep spindle amplitude 
in central and frontal derivations and a positive association between 
intelligence and slow sleep spindle duration in all except one derivation. In 
males, a negative association between intelligence and fast spindle density in 
posterior regions was found. Effects were continuous over the entire IQ range. 
Our results demonstrate that, although there is an association between sleep 
spindle parameters and intellectual performance, these effects are more modest 
than previously reported and mainly present in females. This supports the view 
that intelligence does not rely on a single neural framework, and stronger 
neural connectivity manifesting in increased thalamocortical oscillations in 
sleep is one particular mechanism typical for females but not males.

Copyright © 2014 the authors 0270-6474/14/3416358-11$15.00/0.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.1857-14.2014
PMCID: PMC6608484
PMID: 25471574 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1570. J Med Genet. 2015 Feb;52(2):111-22. doi: 10.1136/jmedgenet-2014-102757. Epub 
2014 Dec 3.

CTNND2-a candidate gene for reading problems and mild intellectual disability.

Hofmeister W(1), Nilsson D(2), Topa A(3), Anderlid BM(4), Darki F(5), Matsson 
H(6), Tapia Páez I(6), Klingberg T(5), Samuelsson L(3), Wirta V(7), Vezzi F(8), 
Kere J(9), Nordenskjöld M(4), Syk Lundberg E(4), Lindstrand A(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Medicine and Surgery, Karolinska Institutet, 
Stockholm, Sweden Center for Molecular Medicine, Karolinska Institutet, 
Stockholm, Sweden.
(2)Department of Molecular Medicine and Surgery, Karolinska Institutet, 
Stockholm, Sweden Center for Molecular Medicine, Karolinska Institutet, 
Stockholm, Sweden Department of Clinical Genetics, Karolinska University 
Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden Science for Life Laboratory, Karolinska Institutet 
Science Park, Solna, Sweden.
(3)Department of Clinical Genetics, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Gothenburg, 
Sweden.
(4)Department of Molecular Medicine and Surgery, Karolinska Institutet, 
Stockholm, Sweden Center for Molecular Medicine, Karolinska Institutet, 
Stockholm, Sweden Department of Clinical Genetics, Karolinska University 
Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden.
(5)Department of Neuroscience, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
(6)Department of Biosciences and Nutrition, Center for Innovative Medicine, 
Karolinska Institutet, Huddinge, Sweden.
(7)SciLifeLab, School of Biotechnology, KTH Royal Institute of Technology, 
Stockholm, Sweden.
(8)SciLifeLab, Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, Stockholm University, 
Stockholm, Sweden.
(9)Department of Biosciences and Nutrition, Center for Innovative Medicine, 
Karolinska Institutet, Huddinge, Sweden Molecular Neurology Research Program, 
University of Helsinki, and Folkhälsan Institute of Genetics, Helsinki, Finland.

BACKGROUND: Cytogenetically visible chromosomal translocations are highly 
informative as they can pinpoint strong effect genes even in complex genetic 
disorders.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Here, we report a mother and daughter, both with borderline 
intelligence and learning problems within the dyslexia spectrum, and two 
apparently balanced reciprocal translocations: t(1;8)(p22;q24) and 
t(5;18)(p15;q11). By low coverage mate-pair whole-genome sequencing, we were 
able to pinpoint the genomic breakpoints to 2 kb intervals. By direct 
sequencing, we then located the chromosome 5p breakpoint to intron 9 of CTNND2. 
An additional case with a 163 kb microdeletion exclusively involving CTNND2 was 
identified with genome-wide array comparative genomic hybridisation. This 
microdeletion at 5p15.2 is also present in mosaic state in the patient's mother 
but absent from the healthy siblings. We then investigated the effect of CTNND2 
polymorphisms on normal variability and identified a polymorphism (rs2561622) 
with significant effect on phonological ability and white matter volume in the 
left frontal lobe, close to cortical regions previously associated with 
phonological processing. Finally, given the potential role of CTNND2 in neuron 
motility, we used morpholino knockdown in zebrafish embryos to assess its 
effects on neuronal migration in vivo. Analysis of the zebrafish forebrain 
revealed a subpopulation of neurons misplaced between the diencephalon and 
telencephalon.
CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, our human genetic and in vivo data suggest that 
defective migration of subpopulations of neuronal cells due to 
haploinsufficiency of CTNND2 contribute to the cognitive dysfunction in our 
patients.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not 
already granted under a licence) please go to 
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

DOI: 10.1136/jmedgenet-2014-102757
PMID: 25473103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1571. BMC Bioinformatics. 2014;15 Suppl 12(Suppl 12):S5. doi: 
10.1186/1471-2105-15-S12-S5. Epub 2014 Nov 6.

Improved packing of protein side chains with parallel ant colonies.

Quan L, Lü Q, Li H, Xia X, Wu H.

INTRODUCTION: The accurate packing of protein side chains is important for many 
computational biology problems, such as ab initio protein structure prediction, 
homology modelling, and protein design and ligand docking applications. Many of 
existing solutions are modelled as a computational optimisation problem. As well 
as the design of search algorithms, most solutions suffer from an inaccurate 
energy function for judging whether a prediction is good or bad. Even if the 
search has found the lowest energy, there is no certainty of obtaining the 
protein structures with correct side chains.
METHODS: We present a side-chain modelling method, pacoPacker, which uses a 
parallel ant colony optimisation strategy based on sharing a single pheromone 
matrix. This parallel approach combines different sources of energy functions 
and generates protein side-chain conformations with the lowest energies jointly 
determined by the various energy functions. We further optimised the selected 
rotamers to construct subrotamer by rotamer minimisation, which reasonably 
improved the discreteness of the rotamer library.
RESULTS: We focused on improving the accuracy of side-chain conformation 
prediction. For a testing set of 442 proteins, 87.19% of X1 and 77.11% of X12 
angles were predicted correctly within 40° of the X-ray positions. We compared 
the accuracy of pacoPacker with state-of-the-art methods, such as CIS-RR and 
SCWRL4. We analysed the results from different perspectives, in terms of protein 
chain and individual residues. In this comprehensive benchmark testing, 51.5% of 
proteins within a length of 400 amino acids predicted by pacoPacker were 
superior to the results of CIS-RR and SCWRL4 simultaneously. Finally, we also 
showed the advantage of using the subrotamers strategy. All results confirmed 
that our parallel approach is competitive to state-of-the-art solutions for 
packing side chains.
CONCLUSIONS: This parallel approach combines various sources of searching 
intelligence and energy functions to pack protein side chains. It provides a 
frame-work for combining different inaccuracy/usefulness objective functions by 
designing parallel heuristic search algorithms.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2105-15-S12-S5
PMCID: PMC4251090
PMID: 25474164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1572. Aten Primaria. 2014 Nov;46 Suppl 5(Suppl 5):92-100. doi: 
10.1016/S0212-6567(14)70073-3.

Validation of Emotional Intelligence Measure (MIE) for the Portuguese 
population.

Andrade A(1), Martins R(2), Duarte J(2), Madureira A(2).

Author information:
(1)Escola Superior de Saúde de Viseu, Instituto Politécnico de Viseu, Viseu, 
Portugal. Electronic address: anandrade67@gmail.com.
(2)Escola Superior de Saúde de Viseu, Instituto Politécnico de Viseu, Viseu, 
Portugal.

OBJECTIVE: To describe the process of validating Emotional Intelligence 
Measurement (MIE) Scale for Portuguese senior citizens.
DESIGN: Observational, cross-sectional quantitative study.
FRAMEWORK: Senior citizens attending senior universities and from the community 
in the district of Viseu.
PARTICIPANTS: 1084 subjects participated with a mean age of 72.98 years, 
residing in the district of Viseu, no longer involved in formal activities 
(retired) and participating voluntarily in study.
MAIN MEASUREMENTS: the Emotional Intelligence Measuring (MIE) Scale, 
socio-demographic characteristics (age, gender, marital status, residence). An 
exploratory factor analysis (EFA) and confirmatory factor analysis (CFA) of the 
MIE scale were performed.
RESULTS: The MIE showed very good internal consistency (Cronbach's alpha=0.952). 
The main component and rotation factor analysis varimax extracted 36 items and 
five factors which explain 54.78% of the total variance. After confirmatory 
factor analysis and re-specification of the model, the global indicator values 
of the adjustment model for the MIE revealed a quality of good fit 
(X(2)/df=3.46; RMR=0.025). The final version of the MIE was composed of 33 items 
and five factors that represent emotional intelligence skills: Factor 1 - 
Empathy (12 items); Factor 2 - Self-motivation (10 items); Factor 3 - 
Self-awareness (4 items); Factor 4 - Self-control (4 items); Factor 5 - 
Sociability (3 items).
CONCLUSION: The MIE scale is shown to be suitable to assess emotional 
intelligence in Portuguese senior citizens.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier España, S.L.U. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0212-6567(14)70073-3
PMCID: PMC8171456
PMID: 25476043 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1573. J Psychiatr Res. 2015 Feb;61:135-40. doi: 10.1016/j.jpsychires.2014.11.004. Epub 
2014 Nov 21.

Emotional intelligence and impulsive aggression in Intermittent Explosive 
Disorder.

Coccaro EF(1), Solis O(1), Fanning J(1), Lee R(1).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Neuroscience Research Unit, Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral 
Neuroscience, Pritzker School of Medicine, The University of Chicago, Chicago, 
IL, USA.

Emotional intelligence (EI) relates to one's ability to recognize and understand 
emotional information and then, to use it for planning and self-management. 
Given evidence of abnormalities of emotional processing in impulsively 
aggressive individuals, we hypothesized that EI would be reduced in subjects 
with Intermittent Explosive Disorder (IED: n = 43) compared with healthy (n = 
44) and psychiatric (n = 44) controls. The Mayer-Salovey-Caruso Emotional 
Intelligence Test (MSCEIT) was used to assess both Experiential EI and Strategic 
EI. Strategic, but not Experiential, EI was lower in IED compared with control 
subjects. These differences were not accounted for demographic characteristics, 
cognitive intelligence, or the presence of clinical syndromes or personality 
disorder. In contrast, the relationship between IED and Strategic EI was fully 
accounted for by a dimension of hostile cognition defined by hostile attribution 
and hostile automatic thoughts. Interventions targeted at improving Strategic EI 
and reducing hostile cognition will be key to reducing aggressive behavior in 
individuals with IED.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpsychires.2014.11.004
PMCID: PMC4898481
PMID: 25477263 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1574. Front Behav Neurosci. 2014 Nov 20;8:402. doi: 10.3389/fnbeh.2014.00402. 
eCollection 2014.

Low social status decreases the neural salience of unfairness.

Hu J(1), Cao Y(1), Blue PR(1), Zhou X(2).

Author information:
(1)Center for Brain and Cognitive Sciences and Department of Psychology, Peking 
University Beijing, China.
(2)Center for Brain and Cognitive Sciences and Department of Psychology, Peking 
University Beijing, China ; Key Laboratory of Machine Perception (Ministry of 
Education), Peking University Beijing, China ; PKU-IDG/McGovern Institute for 
Brain Research, Peking University Beijing, China.

Social hierarchy exists in almost all social species and affects everything from 
resource allocation to the development of intelligence. Previous studies showed 
that status within a social hierarchy influences the perceived fairness of 
income allocation. However, the effect of one's social status on economic 
decisions is far from clear, as are the neural processes underlying these 
decisions. In this study, we dynamically manipulated participants' social status 
and analyzed their behavior as recipients in the ultimatum game (UG), during 
which event-related potentials (ERPs) were recorded. Behavioral results showed 
that acceptance rates for offers increased with the fairness level of offers. 
Importantly, participants were less likely to accept unfair offers when they 
were endowed with high status than with low status. In addition, cues indicating 
low status elicited a more positive P2 than cues indicating high status in an 
earlier time window (170-240 ms), and cues indicating high status elicited a 
more negative N400 than cues indicating low status in a later time window 
(350-520 ms). During the actual reception of offers, the late positivity 
potential (LPP, 400-700 ms) for unfair offers was more positive in the high 
status condition than in the low status condition, suggesting a decreased 
arousal for unfair offers during low status. These findings suggest a strong 
role of social status in modulating individual behavioral and neural responses 
to fairness.

DOI: 10.3389/fnbeh.2014.00402
PMCID: PMC4238404
PMID: 25477798


1575. Front Psychol. 2014 Nov 18;5:1322. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.01322. eCollection 
2014.

Antecedents of organizational engagement: exploring vision, mood and perceived 
organizational support with emotional intelligence as a moderator.

Mahon EG(1), Taylor SN(2), Boyatzis RE(3).

Author information:
(1)Information Technology, Kent State University Kent, OH, USA.
(2)Management Division, Babson College, Babson Park MA, USA.
(3)Organizational Behavior, Case Western Reserve University Cleveland, OH, USA.

As organizational leaders worry about the appalling low percentage of people who 
feel engaged in their work, academics are trying to understand what causes an 
increase in engagement. We collected survey data from 231 team members from two 
organizations. We examined the impact of team members' emotional intelligence 
(EI) and their perception of shared personal vision, shared positive mood, and 
perceived organizational support (POS) on the members' degree of organizational 
engagement. We found shared vision, shared mood, and POS have a direct, positive 
association with engagement. In addition, shared vision and POS interact with EI 
to positively influence engagement. Besides highlighting the importance of 
shared personal vision, positive mood, and POS, our study contributes to the 
emergent understanding of EI by revealing EI's amplifying effect on shared 
vision and POS in relation to engagement. We conclude by discussing the research 
and practical implications of this study.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.01322
PMCID: PMC4235263
PMID: 25477845


1576. Prax Kinderpsychol Kinderpsychiatr. 2014;63(9):738-60. doi: 
10.13109/prkk.2014.63.9.738.

[The mentalizing vocational training - first results from a pilot study with 
adolescents with learning disabilities].

[Article in German]

Curth C, Kotte S, Taubner S, Unger A.

In this report first results are presented from a pilot study on the Mentalizing 
Vocational Training that aims to increase the effectiveness of vocational 
rehabilitation programs with adolescents diagnosed with learning disabilities. 
The prevention program was based on the hypothesis that adolescents' 
difficulties in motivation and relationships are related to deficits in 
mentalizing. Thus, we created a prevention program that supports an enduring 
mentalizing social system following Twemlow's and Fonagy's suggestions for 
peaceful schools. The program consists of four modules: a psychoeducative 
training for all professionals within the rehabilitation program, an ongoing 
supervision for two selected teams, two mentalizing training groups for selected 
adolescents and a weekly intervision group for the research team analyzing the 
organizational perspective. During the pilot study, mentalization interest and 
attachment styles were assessed from all adolescents and professionals. 
Additionally, adolescents' mentalization capacities were assessed using an 
objective videobased test as well as general intelligence. Results showed that 
participants had significantly more attachment anxiety and avoidance as well as 
less interest to think about themselves and others in a complex way. 
Furthermore, participants achieved very low scores in the mentalization test 
(comparable to the autistic spectrum) which were independent from general 
cognitive deficits. On the organizational level, professionals appeared to be 
conflicted about the changes in management towards more economic efficiency and 
overwhelmed by participants with traumatic backgrounds. This led to a regression 
of the whole organization on the teleological mode.

DOI: 10.13109/prkk.2014.63.9.738
PMID: 25478753 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1577. Lancet. 2015 Mar 28;385(9974):1206-18. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(14)61396-9. Epub 
2014 Dec 3.

40-year trends in an index of survival for all cancers combined and survival 
adjusted for age and sex for each cancer in England and Wales, 1971-2011: a 
population-based study.

Quaresma M(1), Coleman MP(2), Rachet B(2).

Author information:
(1)Cancer Research UK Cancer Survival Group, Department of Non-Communicable 
Disease Epidemiology, London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, London, UK. 
Electronic address: manuela.quaresma@lshtm.ac.uk.
(2)Cancer Research UK Cancer Survival Group, Department of Non-Communicable 
Disease Epidemiology, London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, London, UK.

Erratum in
    Lancet. 2015 Mar 28;385(9974):1182.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2015 Mar 28;385(9974):1162-3.
    Nat Rev Clin Oncol. 2015 Apr;12(4):191-2.

BACKGROUND: Assessment of progress in cancer control at the population level is 
increasingly important. Population-based survival trends provide a key insight 
into the overall effectiveness of the health system, alongside trends in 
incidence and mortality. For this purpose, we aimed to provide a unique measure 
of cancer survival.
METHODS: In this observational study, we analysed trends in survival with 
population-based data for 7·2 million adults diagnosed with a first, primary, 
invasive malignancy in England and Wales during 1971-2011 and followed up to the 
end of 2012. We constructed a survival index for all cancers combined using data 
from the National Cancer Registry and the Welsh Cancer Intelligence and 
Surveillance Unit. The index is designed to be independent of changes in the age 
distribution of patients with cancer and of changes in the proportion of lethal 
cancers in each sex. We analysed trends in the cancer survival index at 1, 5, 
and 10 years after diagnosis for the selected periods 1971-72, 1980-81, 1990-91, 
2000-01, 2005-06, and 2010-11. We also estimated trends in age-sex-adjusted 
survival for each cancer. We define the difference in net survival between the 
oldest (75-99 years) and youngest (15-44 years) patients as the age gap in 
survival. We evaluated the absolute change (%) in the age gap since 1971.
FINDINGS: The overall index of net survival increased substantially during the 
40-year period 1971-2011, both in England and in Wales. For patients diagnosed 
in 1971-72, the index of net survival was 50% at 1 year after diagnosis. 40 
years later, the same value of 50% was predicted at 10 years after diagnosis. 
The average 10% survival advantage for women persisted throughout this period. 
Predicted 10-year net survival adjusted for age and sex for patients diagnosed 
between 2010 and 2011 ranged from 1·1% for pancreatic cancer to 98·2% for 
testicular cancer. Net survival for the oldest patients (75-99 years) was 
persistently lower than for the youngest (15-44 years), even after adjustment 
for the much higher mortality from causes other than cancer in elderly people.
INTERPRETATION: These findings support substantial increases in both short-term 
and long-term net survival from all cancers combined in both England and Wales. 
The net survival index provides a convenient, single number that summarises the 
overall patterns of cancer survival in any one population, in each calendar 
period, for young and old men and women and for a wide range of cancers with 
very disparate survival. The persistent sex difference is partly due to a more 
favourable cancer distribution in women than men. The very wide differences in 
survival for different cancers, and the persistent age gap in survival, suggest 
the need for renewed efforts to improve cancer outcomes. Future monitoring of 
the cancer survival index will not be possible unless the current crisis of 
public concern about sharing of individual data for public health research can 
be resolved.
FUNDING: Cancer Research UK.

Copyright © 2015 Quaresma et al. Open Access article distributed under the terms 
of CC BY. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(14)61396-9
PMID: 25479696 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1578. Physiol Behav. 2015 Feb;139:532-40. doi: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2014.12.003. Epub 
2014 Dec 3.

The contribution of coping-related variables and heart rate variability to 
visual search performance under pressure.

Laborde S(1), Lautenbach F(2), Allen MS(3).

Author information:
(1)German Sport University Cologne, Institute of Psychology, Germany; University 
of Caen, France. Electronic address: sylvain.laborde@yahoo.fr.
(2)German Sport University Cologne, Institute of Psychology, Germany.
(3)University of Wollongong, School of Psychology, Australia.

Visual search performance under pressure is explored within the predictions of 
the neurovisceral integration model. The experimental aims of this study were: 
1) to investigate the contribution of coping-related variables to baseline, 
task, and reactivity (task-baseline) high-frequency heart rate variability 
(HF-HRV), and 2) to investigate the contribution of coping-related variables and 
HF-HRV to visual search performance under pressure. Participants (n=96) 
completed self-report measures of coping-related variables (emotional 
intelligence, coping style, perceived stress intensity, perceived control of 
stress, coping effectiveness, challenge and threat, and attention strategy) and 
HF-HRV was measured during a visual search task under pressure. The data show 
that baseline HF-HRV was predicted by a trait coping-related variable, task 
HF-HRV was predicted by a combination of trait and state coping-related 
variables, and reactivity HF-HRV was predicted by a state coping-related 
variable. Visual search performance was predicted by coping-related variables 
but not by HF-HRV.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2014.12.003
PMID: 25481358 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1579. Cell Mol Life Sci. 2015 Apr;72(7):1231-48. doi: 10.1007/s00018-014-1799-5. Epub 
2014 Dec 7.

Cancer intelligence acquired (CIA): tumor glycosylation and sialylation codes 
dismantling antitumor defense.

Boligan KF(1), Mesa C, Fernandez LE, von Gunten S.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Pharmacology, University of Bern, Friedbühlstrasse 49, 3010, 
Bern, Switzerland, kayluz.frias@pki.unibe.ch.

Aberrant glycosylation is a key feature of malignant transformation and reflects 
epigenetic and genetic anomalies among the multitude of molecules involved in 
glycan biosynthesis. Although glycan biosynthesis is not template bound, altered 
tumor glycosylation is not random, but associated with common glycosylation 
patterns. Evidence suggests that acquisition of distinct glycosylation patterns 
evolves from a 'microevolutionary' process conferring advantages in terms of 
tumor growth, tumor dissemination, and immune escape. Such glycosylation 
modifications also involve xeno- and hypersialylation. Xeno-autoantigens such as 
Neu5Gc-gangliosides provide potential targets for immunotherapy. 
Hypersialylation may display 'enhanced self' to escape immunosurveillance and 
involves several not mutually exclusive inhibitory pathways that all rely on 
protein-glycan interactions. A better understanding of tumor 'glycan codes' as 
deciphered by lectins, such as siglecs, selectins, C-type lectins and galectins, 
may lead to novel treatment strategies, not only in cancer, but also in 
autoimmune disease or transplantation.

DOI: 10.1007/s00018-014-1799-5
PMID: 25487607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1580. Diabetes Care. 2015 Feb;38(2):236-42. doi: 10.2337/dc14-1385. Epub 2014 Dec 8.

Risk factors for decline in IQ in youth with type 1 diabetes over the 12 years 
from diagnosis/illness onset.

Lin A(1), Northam EA(2), Werther GA(3), Cameron FJ(3).

Author information:
(1)Telethon Kids Institute, University of Western Australia, Perth, Australia 
ashleigh.lin@telethonkids.org.au.
(2)Department of Psychology, Royal Children's Hospital, Melbourne, Australia 
Department of Endocrinology and Diabetes, Royal Children's Hospital, Melbourne, 
Australia Murdoch Childrens Research Institute, Royal Children's Hospital, 
Melbourne, Australia.
(3)Department of Endocrinology and Diabetes, Royal Children's Hospital, 
Melbourne, Australia Murdoch Childrens Research Institute, Royal Children's 
Hospital, Melbourne, Australia Department of Paediatrics, University of 
Melbourne, Royal Children's Hospital, Melbourne, Australia.

Comment in
    Diabetes Care. 2015 Aug;38(8):e120.
    Diabetes Care. 2015 Aug;38(8):e121-2.

OBJECTIVE: This study examined illness-related change in intelligence quotient 
(IQ) in a cohort of youth with type 1 diabetes studied prospectively from 
disease onset in childhood to follow-up 12 years later in late adolescence/early 
adulthood.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: Participants included type 1 diabetes patients (n = 
95; mean age at follow-up 21.3 years) and healthy control participants (HCs; n = 
67; mean age at follow-up 21.0 years) from a cohort followed prospectively. 
Measures included Wechsler Preschool and Primary Scale of Intelligence-Revised, 
Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children-Revised, and Wechsler Abbreviated Scale 
of Intelligence and prospective collection of data on metabolic control history.
RESULTS: Young people with type 1 diabetes showed greater decline in verbal IQ 
(VIQ) and full-scale IQ (FSIQ), but not performance IQ (PIQ), than HCs. Within 
the diabetes group, a younger age at diabetes onset was associated with a 
decline in PIQ and FSIQ (P ≤ 0.001). A history of hypoglycemic seizures was 
associated with a decline in VIQ (P = 0.002). Long-term metabolic control was 
not associated with changes in IQ. Interaction terms were not significant, 
suggesting no moderating effect of one diabetes-related variable over another.
CONCLUSIONS: The presence of diabetes may negatively influence some aspects of 
IQ over time. Specific illness risk factors, such as an earlier age of disease 
onset and a history of hypoglycemic seizures, appear to put the young person at 
greater risk. Academic progress of children identified as at risk should be 
monitored and educational supports provided if necessary.

© 2015 by the American Diabetes Association. Readers may use this article as 
long as the work is properly cited, the use is educational and not for profit, 
and the work is not altered.

DOI: 10.2337/dc14-1385
PMID: 25488913 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1581. J Int Med Res. 2015 Feb;43(1):125-38. doi: 10.1177/0300060514558897. Epub 2014 
Dec 8.

The effects of motor and intellectual functions on the effectiveness of 
comprehensive rehabilitation in young children with cerebral palsy.

Zhang H(1), Zhang B(2), Jia F(1), Liang D(2), Li H(1), Chen Y(1), Yang L(2), Ge 
P(3), Liang J(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics, First Bethune Hospital of Jilin University, 
Changchun, Jilin Province, China Neuroscience Research Centre, First Bethune 
Hospital of Jilin University, Changchun, China.
(2)Department of Paediatrics, First Bethune Hospital of Jilin University, 
Changchun, Jilin Province, China.
(3)Department of Neurosurgery, First Bethune Hospital of Jilin University, 
Changchun, China Neuroscience Research Centre, First Bethune Hospital of Jilin 
University, Changchun, China.
(4)Department of Paediatrics, First Bethune Hospital of Jilin University, 
Changchun, Jilin Province, China Neuroscience Research Centre, First Bethune 
Hospital of Jilin University, Changchun, China jackyliangjm@163.com.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the effects of motor and intellectual functions on the 
effectiveness of comprehensive rehabilitation (CR) in young children with 
cerebral palsy (CP).
METHODS: This longitudinal cohort study recruited paediatric patients with a 
confirmed diagnosis of CP. Baseline gross motor function was classified using 
the Gross Motor Function Classification System. Baseline intellectual level was 
evaluated using the Developmental Quotient (DQ) via the Gesell Development 
Scale. Children underwent CR for 3 months and then their motor and intellectual 
functions were assessed using the Gross Motor Function Measure, Fine Motor 
Function Measure and DQ. The changes from baseline were calculated.
RESULTS: Forty-eight children with CP were recruited to this study. Greater 
improvements in motor function were associated with a lower baseline level of 
intellectual impairment. Motor and intellectual function in children with CP was 
significantly improved when treatment was started before 12 months of age.
CONCLUSION: There might be a close and reciprocal relationship between the 
baseline levels of impairment of motor and intellectual function with regard to 
the effectiveness of CR. Early intervention is important to gain a good outcome 
in children with CP.

© The Author(s) 2014 Reprints and permissions: 
sagepub.co.uk/journalsPermissions.nav.

DOI: 10.1177/0300060514558897
PMID: 25488951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1582. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2015 Apr;69(4):347-53. doi: 
10.1136/jech-2014-204958. Epub 2014 Dec 8.

Does high intelligence improve prognosis? The association of intelligence with 
recurrence and mortality among Swedish men with coronary heart disease.

Sörberg Wallin A(1), Falkstedt D(2), Allebeck P(3), Melin B(4), Janszky I(5), 
Hemmingsson T(6).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Environmental Medicine, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, 
Sweden.
(2)Department of Public Health Sciences, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, 
Sweden Division of Psychology, Department of Clinical Neurosciences, Karolinska 
Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
(3)Department of Public Health Sciences, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, 
Sweden.
(4)Division of Psychology, Department of Clinical Neurosciences, Karolinska 
Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
(5)Department of Public Health Sciences, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, 
Sweden Department of Public Health and General Practice, NTNU, Trondheim, 
Norway.
(6)Institute of Environmental Medicine, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden 
Centre for Social Research on Alcohol and Drugs, Stockholm University, 
Stockholm, Sweden.

BACKGROUND: Lower intelligence early in life is associated with increased risks 
for coronary heart disease (CHD) and mortality. Intelligence level might affect 
compliance to treatment but its prognostic importance in patients with CHD is 
unknown.
METHODS: A cohort of 1923 Swedish men with a measure of intelligence from 
mandatory military conscription in 1969-1970 at age 18-20, who were diagnosed 
with CHD 1991-2007, were followed to the end of 2008.
PRIMARY OUTCOME: recurrent CHD event. Secondary outcome: case fatality from the 
first event, cardiovascular and all-cause mortality. National registers provided 
information on CHD events, comorbidity, mortality and socioeconomic factors.
RESULTS: The fully adjusted HRs for recurrent CHD for medium and low 
intelligence, compared with high intelligence, were 0.98, (95% CIs 0.83 to 1.16) 
and 1.09 (0.89 to 1.34), respectively. The risks were increased for 
cardiovascular and all-cause mortality with lower intelligence, but were 
attenuated in the fully adjusted models (fully adjusted HRs for cardiovascular 
mortality 1.92 (0.94 to 3.94) and 1.98 (0.89 to 4.37), respectively; for 
all-cause mortality 1.63 (1.00 to 2.65) and 1.62 (0.94 to 2.78), respectively). 
There was no increased risk for case-fatality at the first event (fully adjusted 
ORs 1.06 (0.73 to 1.55) and 0.97 (0.62 to 1.50), respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: Although we found lower intelligence to be associated with 
increased mortality in middle-aged men with CHD, there was no evidence for its 
possible effect on recurrence in CHD.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not 
already granted under a licence) please go to 
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

DOI: 10.1136/jech-2014-204958
PMCID: PMC4392213
PMID: 25488976 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1583. World J Plast Surg. 2014 Jul;3(2):87-92.

How can bee colony algorithm serve medicine?

Salehahmadi Z(1), Manafi A(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Information Technology, Bushehr University of Medical Sciences, 
Bushehr, Iran;
(2)Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.

Healthcare professionals usually should make complex decisions with far reaching 
consequences and associated risks in health care fields. As it was demonstrated 
in other industries, the ability to drill down into pertinent data to explore 
knowledge behind the data can greatly facilitate superior, informed decisions to 
ensue the facts. Nature has always inspired researchers to develop models of 
solving the problems. Bee colony algorithm (BCA), based on the self-organized 
behavior of social insects is one of the most popular member of the family of 
population oriented, nature inspired meta-heuristic swarm intelligence method 
which has been proved its superiority over some other nature inspired 
algorithms. The objective of this model was to identify valid novel, potentially 
useful, and understandable correlations and patterns in existing data. This 
review employs a thematic analysis of online series of academic papers to 
outline BCA in medical hive, reducing the response and computational time and 
optimizing the problems. To illustrate the benefits of this model, the cases of 
disease diagnose system are presented.

PMCID: PMC4236990
PMID: 25489530


1584. Cognition. 2015 Mar;136:43-8. doi: 10.1016/j.cognition.2014.10.019. Epub 2014 
Dec 6.

Revealing ontological commitments by magic.

Griffiths TL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of California, Berkeley, United States. 
Electronic address: tom_griffiths@berkeley.edu.

Considering the appeal of different magical transformations exposes some 
systematic asymmetries. For example, it is more interesting to transform a vase 
into a rose than a rose into a vase. An experiment in which people judged how 
interesting they found different magic tricks showed that these asymmetries 
reflect the direction a transformation moves in an ontological hierarchy: 
transformations in the direction of animacy and intelligence are favored over 
the opposite. A second and third experiment demonstrated that judgments of the 
plausibility of machines that perform the same transformations do not show the 
same asymmetries, but judgments of the interestingness of such machines do. A 
formal argument relates this sense of interestingness to evidence for an 
alternative to our current physical theory, with magic tricks being a 
particularly pure source of such evidence. These results suggest that people's 
intuitions about magic tricks can reveal the ontological commitments that 
underlie human cognition.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cognition.2014.10.019
PMID: 25490128 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1585. PLoS One. 2014 Dec 9;9(12):e114223. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0114223. 
eCollection 2014.

Determination of optimal parameters for dual-layer cathode of polymer 
electrolyte fuel cell using computational intelligence-aided design.

Chen Y(1), Huang W(2), Peng B(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Mechatronics Engineering, University of Electronic Science and 
Technology of China, Chengdu, 611731, China; Robotic Research Center, University 
of Electronic Science and Technology of China, Chengdu, 611731, China; School of 
Engineering and Built Environment, Glasgow Caledonian University, Glasgow, G4 
0BA, United Kingdom.
(2)School of Mechatronics Engineering, University of Electronic Science and 
Technology of China, Chengdu, 611731, China; Robotic Research Center, University 
of Electronic Science and Technology of China, Chengdu, 611731, China.

Because of the demands for sustainable and renewable energy, fuel cells have 
become increasingly popular, particularly the polymer electrolyte fuel cell 
(PEFC). Among the various components, the cathode plays a key role in the 
operation of a PEFC. In this study, a quantitative dual-layer cathode model was 
proposed for determining the optimal parameters that minimize the over-potential 
difference η and improve the efficiency using a newly developed bat swarm 
algorithm with a variable population embedded in the computational 
intelligence-aided design. The simulation results were in agreement with 
previously reported results, suggesting that the proposed technique has 
potential applications for automating and optimizing the design of PEFCs.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0114223
PMCID: PMC4260849
PMID: 25490761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


1586. Hum Brain Mapp. 2015 Apr;36(4):1407-16. doi: 10.1002/hbm.22710. Epub 2014 Dec 9.

Subcortical intelligence: caudate volume predicts IQ in healthy adults.

Grazioplene RG(1), G Ryman S, Gray JR, Rustichini A, Jung RE, DeYoung CG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota.

This study examined the association between size of the caudate nuclei and 
intelligence. Based on the central role of the caudate in learning, as well as 
neuroimaging studies linking greater caudate volume to better attentional 
function, verbal ability, and dopamine receptor availability, we hypothesized 
the existence of a positive association between intelligence and caudate volume 
in three large independent samples of healthy adults (total N = 517). Regression 
of IQ onto bilateral caudate volume controlling for age, sex, and total brain 
volume indicated a significant positive correlation between caudate volume and 
intelligence, with a comparable magnitude of effect across each of the three 
samples. No other subcortical structures were independently associated with IQ, 
suggesting a specific biological link between caudate morphology and 
intelligence.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/hbm.22710
PMCID: PMC6869035
PMID: 25491047 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1587. Gland Surg. 2014 Nov;3(4):237-42. doi: 10.3978/j.issn.2227-684X.2014.11.01.

Breast cancer in Wales: time trends and geographical distribution.

Abdulrahman GO Jnr(1).

Author information:
(1)Royal Gwent Hospital, The Friars Education Centre, Newport NP20 4EZ, UK.

BACKGROUND: Breast cancer is the second commonest malignancy in the world. In 
2012, approximately 522,000 women died of breast cancer across the world. The 
aim of this study is to provide an up-to-date analysis of time trends in 
incidence, geographical distribution, survival and mortality from breast cancer 
in Wales.
METHODS: Breast cancer cases registered between 1985 and 2012 were identified 
from the Welsh Cancer Intelligence and Surveillance Unit (WCISU). A Poisson 
regression model was fitted to assess temporal trends and rate ratios (RR) and 
95% confidence intervals (CI) were determined and compared in relation to age, 
geographical distribution and mortality across time periods.
RESULTS: A total of 60,227 women diagnosed with breast cancer were registered 
with the Welsh cancer registry between 1985 and 2012. The age-standardised 
incidence rate of breast cancer was 113.4 per 100,000 populations over the 
entire study period. There has been a significant increase in the incidence of 
breast cancer over the study period, although a slight decline was recorded 
towards the end of the study. There is a considerable regional variation in 
incidence, with a higher incidence rate in the rural areas compared to urban 
areas (P<0.001). One- and five-year relative survival improved from 83.3 and 
64.2 respectively in 1985-1989 to 91.1 and 78.8 respectively in 2000-2004. There 
has also been a considerable improvement in relative survival across all age 
groups. Mortality has improved over the study period with the most dramatic 
decline in the age groups 45-54 and 55-64 years (P<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: There has been a significant increase in the incidence of breast 
cancer in Wales over the last three decades, which is likely to be partly due to 
the introduction of the National Health Service Breast Screening Programme. 
Breast cancer incidence is higher in rural areas than urban areas and lower 
incidence was seen in more deprived areas. There was a considerable decline in 
mortality rate across almost all age groups, especially in recent years. 
However, women over the age of 65 years had poorer outcome throughout the study 
period.

DOI: 10.3978/j.issn.2227-684X.2014.11.01
PMCID: PMC4244508
PMID: 25493255


1588. PLoS One. 2014 Dec 10;9(12):e114003. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0114003. 
eCollection 2014.

Persistent Associations between Maternal Prenatal Exposure to Phthalates on 
Child IQ at Age 7 Years.

Factor-Litvak P(1), Insel B(1), Calafat AM(2), Liu X(3), Perera F(4), Rauh 
VA(5), Whyatt RM(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Mailman School of Public Health, Columbia 
University, New York, New York, United States of America.
(2)National Center for Environmental Health, Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention, Atlanta, Georgia, United States of America.
(3)Department of Biostatistics, Mailman School of Public Health, Columbia 
University, New York, New York, United States of America.
(4)Department of Environmental Health Sciences, Columbia Center for Children's 
Environmental Health, Mailman School of Public Health, Columbia University, New 
York, New York, United States of America.
(5)Heilbrunn Department of Population and Family Health, Mailman School of 
Public Health, Columbia University, New York, New York, United States of 
America.

BACKGROUND: Prior research reports inverse associations between maternal 
prenatal urinary phthalate metabolite concentrations and mental and motor 
development in preschoolers. No study evaluated whether these associations 
persist into school age.
METHODS: In a follow up of 328 inner-city mothers and their children, we 
measured prenatal urinary metabolites of di-n-butyl phthalate (DnBP), 
butylbenzyl phthalate (BBzP), di-isobutyl phthalate (DiBP), di-2-ethylhexyl 
phthalate and diethyl phthalate in late pregnancy. The Wechsler Intelligence 
Scale for Children, 4th edition was administered at child age 7 years and 
evaluates four areas of cognitive function associated with overall intelligence 
quotient (IQ).
RESULTS: Child full-scale IQ was inversely associated with prenatal urinary 
metabolite concentrations of DnBP and DiBP: b = -2.69 (95% confidence interval 
[CI] = -4.33, -1.05) and b = -2.69 (95% CI = -4.22, -1.16) per log unit 
increase. Among children of mothers with the highest versus lowest quartile DnBP 
and DiBP metabolite concentrations, IQ was 6.7 (95% CI = 1.9, 11.4) and 7.6 (95% 
CI = 3.2, 12.1) points lower, respectively. Associations were unchanged after 
control for cognition at age 3 years. Significant inverse associations were also 
seen between maternal prenatal metabolite concentrations of DnBP and DiBP and 
child processing speed, perceptual reasoning and working memory; DiBP and child 
verbal comprehension; and BBzP and child perceptual reasoning.
CONCLUSION: Maternal prenatal urinary metabolite concentrations measured in late 
pregnancy of DnBP and DiBP are associated with deficits in children's 
intellectual development at age 7 years. Because phthalate exposures are 
ubiquitous and concentrations seen here within the range previously observed 
among general populations, results are of public health significance.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0114003
PMCID: PMC4262205
PMID: 25493564 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


1589. J Psychol. 2015 Jan-Apr;149(1-2):63-84. doi: 10.1080/00223980.2013.838540. Epub 
2014 Feb 28.

Emotional intelligence as a basis for self-esteem in young adults.

Cheung CK(1), Cheung HY, Hue MT.

Author information:
(1)a City University of Hong Kong.

As self-esteem is likely to build on favorable social experiences, such as those 
derived from achievement (i.e., GPA) and social competence, emotional 
intelligence is likely to be pivotal in fostering social experiences conducive 
to self-esteem. Accordingly, emotional intelligence is likely to underlie social 
competence and mediate the contribution of achievement to self-esteem. This 
uncharted role is the focus of this study, which surveyed 405 undergraduates in 
Hong Kong, China. Results demonstrated the pivotal role of emotional 
intelligence. Essentially, emotional intelligence appeared to be a strong 
determinant of self-esteem and explain away the positive effect of social 
competence on self-esteem. The results imply the value of raising emotional 
intelligence in order to consolidate the basis for the young adult's 
self-esteem.

DOI: 10.1080/00223980.2013.838540
PMID: 25495163 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1590. Child Neuropsychol. 2016;22(2):197-219. doi: 10.1080/09297049.2014.988607. Epub 
2014 Dec 11.

Unique designs, errors and strategies in the Five-Point Test: The contribution 
of age, phonemic fluency and visuospatial abilities in Italian children aged 
6-11 years.

Stievano P(1), Scalisi TG(2).

Author information:
(1)a Local Health Unit "Unità Sanitaria Locale 12" , Viareggio ( LU ), Italy.
(2)b Department of Social and Developmental Psychology , Sapienza University of 
Rome , Roma , Italy.

Performances on the Five-Point Test of 161 Italian children aged 6 to 11 years 
were investigated, along with phonemic fluency, visual-motor integration, visual 
perception, motor coordination, visuospatial memory, and fluid intelligence. 
Five-Point Test accuracy was significantly related to phonemic fluency and 
visual-motor integration, while phonemic fluency was linked to motor 
coordination. The two fluency measures increased linearly with age, but the 
developmental progression of Five-Point Test accuracy was less influenced by 
age. Different age effects were also found on the relationship between fluid 
intelligence and the two fluency measures. The inspection of qualitative aspects 
of Five-Point Test performance (errors and strategies) suggested that strategy 
usage enhanced both productivity and accuracy in children; age-related changes 
were observed in the relationship between the number of errors and the total 
number of designs produced.

DOI: 10.1080/09297049.2014.988607
PMID: 25495262 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1591. Child Neuropsychol. 2016;22(2):177-96. doi: 10.1080/09297049.2014.985642. Epub 
2014 Dec 12.

Cognitive contributions to theory of mind ability in children with a traumatic 
head injury.

Levy NK(1), Milgram N(1).

Author information:
(1)a The Department of Behavioural Sciences , Ariel University , Ariel , Israel.

The objective of the current study is to examine the contribution of 
intellectual abilities, executive functions (EF), and facial emotion recognition 
to difficulties in Theory of Mind (ToM) abilities in children with a traumatic 
head injury. Israeli children with a traumatic head injury were compared with 
their non-injured counterparts. Each group included 18 children (12 males) ages 
7-13. Measurements included reading the mind in the eyes, facial emotion 
recognition, reasoning the other's characteristics based on motive and outcome, 
Raven's Coloured Progressive Matrices, similarities and digit span (Wechsler 
Intelligence Scale for Children - Revised 95 subscales), verbal fluency, and the 
Behaviour Rating Inventory of Executive Functions. Non-injured children 
performed significantly better on ToM, abstract reasoning, and EF measures 
compared with children with a traumatic head injury. However, differences in ToM 
abilities between the groups were no longer significant after controlling for 
abstract reasoning, working memory, verbal fluency, or facial emotion 
recognition. Impaired ToM recognition and reasoning abilities after a head 
injury may result from other cognitive impairments. In children with mild and 
moderate head injury, poorer performance on ToM tasks may reflect poorer 
abstract reasoning, a general tendency to concretize stimuli, working memory and 
verbal fluency deficits, and difficulties in facial emotion recognition, rather 
than deficits in the ability to understand the other's thoughts and emotions. 
ToM impairments may be secondary to a range of cognitive deficits in determining 
social outcomes in this population.

DOI: 10.1080/09297049.2014.985642
PMID: 25495376 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1592. Appl Neuropsychol Child. 2016;5(1):25-34. doi: 10.1080/21622965.2014.935378. 
Epub 2014 Dec 12.

Results From Three Performance Validity Tests in Children With Intellectual 
Disability.

Green P(1), Flaro L(1).

Author information:
(1)a Private Practice , Edmonton , Alberta , Canada.

If we wish to conclude that failure on a performance validity test (PVT) is a 
false positive for poor effort, we must have evidence that the person is truly 
incapable of passing the test because of cognitive impairment. We must show that 
they have a diagnostic condition that is sufficient to account fully for failure 
on that test. The purpose of the current study was to evaluate the performance 
of children with a primary diagnosis of intellectual disability (ID) on the Word 
Memory Test (WMT), the Medical Symptom Validity Test (MSVT), and the Nonverbal 
Medical Symptom Validity Test (Green, 2003 , 2004 , 2008b ; Green & Astner, 1995 
). If a Full-Scale IQ (FSIQ) less than 70 could account for failure on these 
tests in adults, then children with ID would also fail them. In fact, the 
children with ID in the current study did not fail the WMT or MSVT as long as 
they had at least a Grade 3 reading level. Also, the children with ID did not 
fail these tests any more often than did children of significantly higher 
intelligence. The data suggest that an FSIQ in the range of 48 to 70 is not 
sufficient to explain failure on these PVTs by children or adults.

DOI: 10.1080/21622965.2014.935378
PMID: 25495876 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1593. J Viral Hepat. 2015 Aug;22(8):665-70. doi: 10.1111/jvh.12373. Epub 2014 Dec 15.

Cognitive function and endogenous cytokine levels in children with chronic 
hepatitis C.

Abu Faddan NH(1), Shehata GA(2), Abd Elhafeez HA(3), Mohamed AO(4), Hassan 
HS(5), Abd El Sameea F(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Faculty of Medicine, Assiut University, Assiut, 
Egypt.
(2)Department of Neurology, Faculty of Medicine, Assiut University, Assiut, 
Egypt.
(3)Department of Clinical Pathology, Faculty of Medicine, Assiut University, 
Assiut, Egypt.
(4)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Medicine, Assiut University, Assiut, 
Egypt.
(5)Department of Psychology, Faculty of Art, Assiut University, Assiut, Egypt.

Little is known about how hepatitis C (HCV) infection affects cognitive function 
in children. The aim of the study was to assess the impact of HCV infection on 
cognitive function of children with normal liver functions and their 
relationships to endogenous IFN-α, IL-6 and TNF-α. IFN-α, IL-6 and TNF-α were 
measured and the Arabic version of the Stanford-Binet test used to assess 
cognitive functions in 35 children with HCV infection and 23 controls. Serum 
levels of IL-6 and IFN-α were significantly higher in patients compared to 
controls. There was a significant effect on vocabulary, comprehension, and 
abstract visual reasoning, quantitative reasoning and bead memory tests, as well 
as total short-term memory and intelligence quotient in patients compared to 
controls. There was a significant positive correlation between IFN-α and IL-6. 
Also there were significant negative correlations between IFN-α and Abstract 
visual reasoning test, Quantitative reasoning test, Bead memory test, Total 
short-term memory and Intelligence quotient; and between IL-6 and Abstract 
visual reasoning test, Quantitative reasoning test and Intelligence quotient. 
There was no significant correlation between TNF-α and any of the cognitive 
functions. Cytokine levels were not related to demographic characteristics of 
the patients or viral load (PCR). Children with chronic hepatitis C infection in 
its early stages showed signs of cognitive impairment, with the memory tasks 
being mostly affected. There was a significant correlation between endogenous 
cytokines and cognitive impairment in these children. Further studies are needed 
to define the effect of successful antiviral treatment.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jvh.12373
PMID: 25496114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1594. Appl Neuropsychol Adult. 2015;22(4):293-303. doi: 10.1080/23279095.2014.925903. 
Epub 2014 Dec 12.

Results From Three Performance Validity Tests (PVTs) in Adults With Intellectual 
Deficits.

Green P(1), Flaro L.

Author information:
(1)a Private Practice , Edmonton , Alberta , Canada.

Previous studies of performance on the Word Memory Test (WMT; Green, 2003 ; 
Green & Astner, 1995 ) in adults with very low intelligence have provided 
conflicting evidence. Most studies suggest that a Full-Scale IQ (FSIQ) less than 
70 cannot explain failure on the WMT, but Shandera et al. ( 2010 ) suggest that 
many adults with mental retardation (MR) cannot pass the WMT. If so, we would 
expect adults with such low intelligence to fail the WMT at a high rate, even if 
they were motivated to perform well. In the current study, parents with an FSIQ 
of 70 or less, who were seeking custody of their children, rarely failed the WMT 
or the Medical Symptom Validity Test (MSVT; Green, 2004 ). They did not fail the 
WMT or MSVT any more often than adults of higher intelligence. On the other 
hand, adults with an external incentive to appear impaired scored significantly 
lower on the WMT and MSVT than did parents with an incentive to look good. The 
data strongly suggest that MR with an FSIQ in the range of 46 to 70 is not 
sufficient to explain failure on these performance validity tests by adults.

DOI: 10.1080/23279095.2014.925903
PMID: 25496190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1595. Horm Behav. 2015 Jan;67:83-8. doi: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2014.11.014. Epub 2014 Dec 9.

Working memory performance is reduced in children with congenital adrenal 
hyperplasia.

Browne WV(1), Hindmarsh PC(2), Pasterski V(3), Hughes IA(4), Acerini CL(4), 
Spencer D(1), Neufeld S(1), Hines M(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Cambridge, Free School Lane, 
Cambridge CB2 3RQ, United Kingdom.
(2)Department of Paediatric Endocrinology, University College London, Institute 
of Child Health, 30 Guilford Street, London WC1N 1EH, United Kingdom.
(3)Department of Psychology, University of Cambridge, Free School Lane, 
Cambridge CB2 3RQ, United Kingdom; Department of Paediatrics, University of 
Cambridge, Level 8/Box 116, Cambridge Biomedical Campus, Cambridge CB2 0QQ, 
United Kingdom.
(4)Department of Paediatrics, University of Cambridge, Level 8/Box 116, 
Cambridge Biomedical Campus, Cambridge CB2 0QQ, United Kingdom.
(5)Department of Psychology, University of Cambridge, Free School Lane, 
Cambridge CB2 3RQ, United Kingdom. Electronic address: mh504@cam.ac.uk.

Individuals with classic congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH) experience 
impaired glucocorticoid production and are treated postnatally with 
glucocorticoids. Prior research with animals and other human populations 
indicates that glucocorticoids can influence memory, particularly working 
memory. We tested the hypothesis that children with CAH would show reduced 
working memory. Children in the United Kingdom, aged 7-11years, with classical 
CAH (31 girls, 26 boys) were compared to their unaffected relatives (30 girls, 
20 boys) on a test of working memory, the Digit Span test. Vocabulary was also 
assessed to measure verbal intelligence for control purposes. Children with CAH 
showed reduced working memory performance compared to controls, on both 
components of the Digit Span test: p=.008 for Digit Span Forward, and p=.027 for 
Digit Span Backward, and on a composite score, p=.004. These differences were of 
moderate size (d=.53 to .70). Similar differences were also seen in a subset of 
23 matched pairs of children with CAH and their relatives (d=.78 to .92). There 
were no group differences on Vocabulary. Glucocorticoid abnormality, including 
treatment effects, could be responsible for the reduced Digit Span performance 
in children with CAH. Other factors related to CAH, such as salt-wasting crises, 
could also be involved. Additional research is needed to identify the cause of 
the memory reduction, which will help to determine if more rapid diagnosis or 
more precise glucocorticoid treatment would help prevent memory reduction. 
Educational interventions might also be considered for children with CAH.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2014.11.014
PMCID: PMC4332548
PMID: 25496755 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interest The authors have nothing 
to disclose and there are no conflicts of interest.


1596. Soc Sci Med. 2015 May;133:269-79. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2014.12.001. Epub 
2014 Dec 2.

The key role of socio-demographic and socio-environmental factors in urban 
malaria occurrence and control - An illustration using the city of Yaoundé.

Ngom R(1), Siegmund A(2).

Author information:
(1)Centre Eau terre Environnment, Institut National de la Recherche Scientifique 
Québec, Canada. Electronic address: roland_pierre.ngom@ete.inrs.ca.
(2)Department of Geography, Research Group for Earth Observation (rgeo), 
University of Education, Heidelberg, Germany.

Cities in developing countries are experiencing an unprecedented population 
growth that illustrates a demographic transition and a shift towards 
modernization with consequences on their epidemiological profiles. However, this 
change is characterized by an important rural-to-urban social and cultural 
transfer that can bias the expected epidemiological transition; at the same 
time, this transfer renders the understanding of the occurrence of communicable 
diseases more complex than it appears. Urban malaria occurrence was modeled for 
the city of Yaoundé in Cameroon. Retrospective interviews were conducted to 
describe a variety of epidemiological, social and environmental variables at the 
household level. Various ecological variables originating from remote sensing 
data were also integrated. Multivariate multilevel negative binomial analyses 
were developed to evaluate the distinct contributions of explanatory social and 
ecological variables. Spatial models based on the level of urbanity were 
implemented to understand the intelligence of urban malaria as characterized by 
those variables. The results showed an overall higher statistical importance of 
socio-environmental variables, particularly those describing rural origin 
socio-cultural features in terms of non-conventional housing types and urban 
agriculture (UA). The spatial patterns of the urban malaria occurrences 
displayed a complex combination of population density gradients and 
socio-environmental factors, illustrating the importance of conventional urban 
features over rural/non-conventional features in reducing the occurrence of 
urban malaria.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2014.12.001
PMID: 25498155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1597. Behav Processes. 2015 Aug;117:52-8. doi: 10.1016/j.beproc.2014.11.019. Epub 2014 
Dec 9.

Animal memory: A review of delayed matching-to-sample data.

Lind J(1), Enquist M(2), Ghirlanda S(3).

Author information:
(1)Centre for the Study of Cultural Evolution, Stockholm University, S-106 91 
Stockholm, Sweden; Department of Zoology, Stockholm University, S-106 91 
Stockholm, Sweden. Electronic address: johan.lind@zoologi.su.se.
(2)Centre for the Study of Cultural Evolution, Stockholm University, S-106 91 
Stockholm, Sweden; Department of Zoology, Stockholm University, S-106 91 
Stockholm, Sweden.
(3)Centre for the Study of Cultural Evolution, Stockholm University, S-106 91 
Stockholm, Sweden; Department of Psychology, Brooklyn College, Brooklyn, NY 
11210, USA.

We performed a meta-analysis of over 90 data sets from delayed 
matching-to-sample (DMTS) studies with 25 species (birds, mammals, and bees). In 
DMTS, a sample stimulus is first presented and then removed. After a delay, two 
(or more) comparison stimuli are presented, and the subject is rewarded for 
choosing the one matching the sample. We used data on performance vs. delay 
length to estimate two parameters informative of working memory abilities: the 
maximum performance possible with no delay (comparison stimuli presented as soon 
as the sample is removed), and the rate of performance decay as the delay is 
lengthened (related to memory span). We conclude that there is little evidence 
that zero-delay performance varies between these species. There is evidence that 
pigeons do not perform as well as mammals at longer delay intervals. Pigeons, 
however, are the only extensively studied bird, and we cannot exclude that other 
birds may be able to bridge as long a delay as mammals. Extensive training may 
improve memory, although the data are open to other interpretations. Overall, 
DMTS studies suggest memory spans ranging from a few seconds to several minutes. 
We suggest that observations of animals exhibiting much longer memory spans 
(days to months) can be explained in terms of specialized memory systems that 
deal with specific, biologically significant information, such as food caches. 
Events that do not trigger these systems, on the other hand, appear to be 
remembered for only a short time. This article is part of a Special Issue 
entitled: In Honor of Jerry Hogan.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.beproc.2014.11.019
PMID: 25498598 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1598. Med Dosim. 2015 Spring;40(1):53-7. doi: 10.1016/j.meddos.2014.09.003. Epub 2014 
Dec 11.

Prediction of the thickness of the compensator filter in radiation therapy using 
computational intelligence.

Dehlaghi V(1), Taghipour M(1), Haghparast A(1), Roshani GH(2), Rezaei A(3), 
Shayesteh SP(1), Adineh-Vand A(4), Karimi GR(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Kermanshah University of Medical 
Sciences, Kermanshah, Iran.
(2)School of Energy, Kermanshah University of Technology, Kermanshah, Iran.
(3)Department of Electrical Engineering, Kermanshah University of Technology, 
Kermanshah, Iran.
(4)Department of Computer Engineering, Islamic Azad University, Kermanshah, 
Iran; Department of Electrical Engineering, Razi University, Kermanshah, Iran.
(5)Department of Electrical Engineering, Razi University, Kermanshah, Iran. 
Electronic address: ghkarimi@razi.ac.ir.

In this study, artificial neural networks (ANNs) and adaptive neuro-fuzzy 
inference system (ANFIS) are investigated to predict the thickness of the 
compensator filter in radiation therapy. In the proposed models, the input 
parameters are field size (S), off-axis distance, and relative dose (D/D0), and 
the output is the thickness of the compensator. The obtained results show that 
the proposed ANN and ANFIS models are useful, reliable, and cheap tools to 
predict the thickness of the compensator filter in intensity-modulated radiation 
therapy.

Copyright © 2015 American Association of Medical Dosimetrists. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.meddos.2014.09.003
PMID: 25498836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1599. Sci Justice. 2014 Dec;54(6):470-80. doi: 10.1016/j.scijus.2014.07.001. Epub 2014 
Jul 20.

A forensic science perspective on the role of images in crime investigation and 
reconstruction.

Milliet Q(1), Delémont O(2), Margot P(2).

Author information:
(1)Institut de Police Scientifique, Ecole des Sciences Criminelles, University 
of Lausanne, Batochime, CH-1015 Lausanne, Switzerland. Electronic address: 
quentin.milliet@unil.ch.
(2)Institut de Police Scientifique, Ecole des Sciences Criminelles, University 
of Lausanne, Batochime, CH-1015 Lausanne, Switzerland.

This article presents a global vision of images in forensic science. The 
proliferation of perspectives on the use of images throughout criminal 
investigations and the increasing demand for research on this topic seem to 
demand a forensic science-based analysis. In this study, the definitions of and 
concepts related to material traces are revisited and applied to images, and a 
structured approach is used to persuade the scientific community to extend and 
improve the use of images as traces in criminal investigations. Current research 
efforts focus on technical issues and evidence assessment. This article provides 
a sound foundation for rationalising and explaining the processes involved in 
the production of clues from trace images. For example, the mechanisms through 
which these visual traces become clues of presence or action are described. An 
extensive literature review of forensic image analysis emphasises the existing 
guidelines and knowledge available for answering investigative questions (who, 
what, where, when and how). However, complementary developments are still 
necessary to demystify many aspects of image analysis in forensic science, 
including how to review and select images or use them to reconstruct an event or 
assist intelligence efforts. The hypothetico-deductive reasoning pathway used to 
discover unknown elements of an event or crime can also help scientists 
understand the underlying processes involved in their decision making. An 
analysis of a single image in an investigative or probative context is used to 
demonstrate the highly informative potential of images as traces and/or clues. 
Research efforts should be directed toward formalising the extraction and 
combination of clues from images. An appropriate methodology is key to expanding 
the use of images in forensic science.

Copyright © 2014 Forensic Science Society. Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scijus.2014.07.001
PMID: 25498936 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1600. Sci Justice. 2014 Dec;54(6):481-6. doi: 10.1016/j.scijus.2014.08.002. Epub 2014 
Sep 16.

The ParaDNA® Screening System - a case study in bringing forensic R&D to market.

Dawnay N(1), Ahmed R(2), Naif S(2).

Author information:
(1)Product Development Group, LGC Forensics, Culham Science Centre, Abingdon, 
OX14 3ED, United Kingdom. Electronic address: paradna@lgcforensics.com.
(2)Product Development Group, LGC Forensics, Culham Science Centre, Abingdon, 
OX14 3ED, United Kingdom.

The creation of new technologies and their application to forensic science is 
key to the field's development. Rapid DNA profiling is one such area of research 
which has grown in response to a desire from enforcement authorities for 
in-house forensic DNA processing and rapid access to forensic genetic 
intelligence. However, introducing novel technologies into the forensics market 
must be carefully monitored and controlled as the success or failure of any 
technology ultimately has long standing implications for victims, suspects, and 
also to Police and forensic practitioners. This article outlines the research, 
development, validation and implementation of the ParaDNA® Screening System as a 
case study in taking forensic research and development to market.

Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scijus.2014.08.002
PMID: 25498937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1601. Sci Justice. 2014 Dec;54(6):494-501. doi: 10.1016/j.scijus.2014.05.001. Epub 
2014 Jun 2.

Expanding forensic science through forensic intelligence.

Ribaux O(1), Talbot Wright B(2).

Author information:
(1)Ecole des Sciences Criminelles, School of Forensic Science, University of 
Lausanne, Switzerland. Electronic address: Olivier.Ribaux@unil.ch.
(2)Centre for Forensic Science, University of Technology, Sydney, Australia.

Research and Development ('R&D') in forensic science currently focuses on 
innovative technologies improving the efficiency of existing forensic processes, 
from the detection of marks and traces at the scene, to their presentation in 
Court. R&D approached from this perspective provides no response to doubts 
raised by recent criminological studies, which question the effective 
contribution of forensic science to crime reduction, and to policing in general. 
Traces (i.e. forensic case data), as remnants of criminal activity are collected 
and used in various forms of crime monitoring and investigation. The 
aforementioned doubts therefore need to be addressed by expressing how 
information is conveyed by traces in these processes. Modelling from this 
standpoint expands the scope of forensic science and provides new R&D 
opportunities. Twelve propositions for R&D are stated in order to pave the way.

Copyright © 2014 Forensic Science Society. Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scijus.2014.05.001
PMID: 25498939


1602. Neuroscience. 2015 Feb 12;286:345-52. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2014.11.063. 
Epub 2014 Dec 8.

Cortical surface area and cortical thickness in the precuneus of adult humans.

Bruner E(1), Román FJ(2), de la Cuétara JM(2), Martin-Loeches M(3), Colom R(2).

Author information:
(1)Centro Nacional de Investigación sobre la Evolución Humana, Burgos, Spain. 
Electronic address: emiliano.bruner@cenieh.es.
(2)Universidad Autónoma de Madrid, Madrid, Spain.
(3)Centro UCM-ISCIII de Evolución y Comportamiento Humanos, Madrid, Spain.

The precuneus has received considerable attention in the last decade, because of 
its cognitive functions, its role as a central node of the brain networks, and 
its involvement in neurodegenerative processes. Paleoneurological studies 
suggested that form changes in the deep parietal areas represent a major 
character associated with the origin of the modern human brain morphology. A 
recent neuroanatomical survey based on shape analysis suggests that the 
proportions of the precuneus are also a determinant source of overall brain 
geometrical differences among adult individuals, influencing the brain spatial 
organization. Here, we evaluate the variation of cortical thickness and cortical 
surface area of the precuneus in a sample of adult humans, and their relation 
with geometry and cognition. Precuneal thickness and surface area are not 
correlated. There is a marked individual variation. The right precuneus is 
thinner and larger than the left one, but there are relevant fluctuating 
asymmetries, with only a modest correlation between the hemispheres. Males have 
a thicker cortex but differences in cortical area are not significant between 
sexes. The surface area of the precuneus shows a positive allometry with the 
brain surface area, although the correlation is modest. The dilation/contraction 
of the precuneus, described as a major factor of variability within adult 
humans, is associated with absolute increase/decrease of its surface, but not 
with variation in thickness. Precuneal thickness, precuneal surface area and 
precuneal morphology are not correlated with psychological factors such as 
intelligence, working memory, attention control, and processing speed, stressing 
further possible roles of this area in supporting default mode functions. Beyond 
gross morphology, the processes underlying the large phenotypic variation of the 
precuneus must be further investigated through specific cellular analyses, aimed 
at considering differences in cellular size, density, composition, and 
structural covariance compared to other brain areas.

Copyright © 2014 IBRO. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2014.11.063
PMID: 25499315 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1603. Nurse Educ Today. 2015 Mar;35(3):510-7. doi: 10.1016/j.nedt.2014.11.009. Epub 
2014 Nov 26.

Emotional intelligence education in pre-registration nursing programmes: an 
integrative review.

Foster K(1), McCloughen A(2), Delgado C(3), Kefalas C(4), Harkness E(5).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Health, Disciplines of Nursing & Midwifery, PO Locked Bag 1, 
University of Canberra, ACT 2601, Australia. Electronic address: 
Kim.Foster@canberra.edu.au.
(2)Sydney Nursing School, University of Sydney, 88 Mallett Street, Camperdown, 
NSW 2006, Australia. Electronic address: andrea.mccloughen@sydney.edu.au.
(3)Sydney Nursing School, The University of Sydney, 88 Mallett Street, 
Camperdown, NSW 2050, Australia; Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney Local 
Health District, P.O. Box M50, Missenden Road, Camperdown, NSW 2050, Australia. 
Electronic address: Cynthia.Delgado@sydney.edu.au.
(4)Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney Local Health District, P.O. Box M50, 
Missenden Road, Camperdown, NSW 2050, Australia. Electronic address: 
ckef4655@uni.sydney.edu.au.
(5)School of Psychology, University of Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia. Electronic 
address: emily.harkness@sydney.edu.au.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the state of knowledge on emotional intelligence (EI) 
education in pre-registration nursing programmes.
DESIGN: Integrative literature review.
DATA SOURCES: CINAHL, Medline, Scopus, ERIC, and Web of Knowledge electronic 
databases were searched for abstracts published in English between 1992-2014.
REVIEW METHODS: Data extraction and constant comparative analysis of 17 
articles.
RESULTS: Three categories were identified: Constructs of emotional intelligence; 
emotional intelligence curricula components; and strategies for emotional 
intelligence education.
CONCLUSIONS: A wide range of emotional intelligence constructs were found, with 
a predominance of trait-based constructs. A variety of strategies to enhance 
students' emotional intelligence skills were identified, but limited curricula 
components and frameworks reported in the literature. An ability-based model for 
curricula and learning and teaching approaches is recommended.

Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nedt.2014.11.009
PMID: 25499529 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1604. Am J Geriatr Psychiatry. 2015 Aug;23(8):852-62. doi: 10.1016/j.jagp.2014.10.007. 
Epub 2014 Nov 4.

Comparative study of clinical and neuropsychological characteristics between 
early-, late and very-late-onset schizophrenia-spectrum disorders.

Hanssen M(1), van der Werf M(2), Verkaaik M(3), Arts B(2), Myin-Germeys I(2), 
van Os J(4), Verhey F(2), Köhler S(2); Genetic Risk and Outcome in Psychosis 
study group.

Author information:
(1)School of Mental Health and Neuroscience, Maastricht University Medical 
Centre, Maastricht, The Netherlands; Regional Centre for Ambulant Mental Health 
Maastricht, Maastricht, The Netherlands. Electronic address: 
m.hanssen@riagg-maastricht.nl.
(2)School of Mental Health and Neuroscience, Maastricht University Medical 
Centre, Maastricht, The Netherlands.
(3)School of Mental Health and Neuroscience, Maastricht University Medical 
Centre, Maastricht, The Netherlands; Regional Centre for Ambulant Mental Health 
Maastricht, Maastricht, The Netherlands.
(4)School of Mental Health and Neuroscience, Maastricht University Medical 
Centre, Maastricht, The Netherlands; Department of Psychosis Studies, Institute 
of Psychiatry, King's Health Partners, King's College, London, United Kingdom.

OBJECTIVE: To compare the clinical and neurocognitive profile of early-onset 
(EOP, <40 years), late-onset (LOP, 40-59 years) and very-late-onset (VLOP, ≥60 
years) psychosis.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional observational study.
SETTING: Secondary, tertiary, and community mental health care.
PARTICIPANTS: Patients with a DSM-IV diagnosis of non-affective psychotic 
disorder were included from two complementary studies (GROUP and PSITE) on 
genetic and environmental risk factors of psychosis in the Netherlands and 
Belgium.
MEASUREMENTS: Main outcome measures were the severity of positive and negative 
symptoms, quality of life, and age-corrected scores on measures of general 
intelligence, verbal memory, attention, and executive function. One-year 
follow-up data were used to validate diagnoses and exclude participants with 
possible or probable dementia.
RESULTS: 286 EOP (85%), 24 LOP (7%) and 28 VLOP (8%) participated. VLOP patients 
reported significantly more positive symptoms than EOP patients. Age-at-onset 
groups had similar age-corrected scores on IQ, verbal memory, attention and 
executive functions. A significantly better performance was found in VLOP 
compared with LOP on the CAMCOG total score, though scores were still within the 
normal range. After controlling for possible confounding, however, VLOP differed 
significantly on an attention accuracy task compared with LOP patients. 
Re-entering data for probable dementia patients (N = 4) did change the results 
regarding cognition outcomes.
CONCLUSIONS: VLOP patients show more positive symptoms but do not appear to 
differ on neuropsychological tests from EOP and LOP when age is controlled for. 
This questions the idea that VLOP is the expression of underlying 
neurodegeneration.

Copyright © 2015 American Association for Geriatric Psychiatry. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jagp.2014.10.007
PMID: 25500119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1605. Eur Eat Disord Rev. 2015 Jan;23(1):34-42. doi: 10.1002/erv.2337. Epub 2014 Dec 
11.

Cognitive profile of children and adolescents with anorexia nervosa.

Kjaersdam Telléus G(1), Jepsen JR, Bentz M, Christiansen E, Jensen SO, Fagerlund 
B, Thomsen PH.

Author information:
(1)Unit for Psychiatric Research, Aalborg University Hospital, Aalborg, Denmark; 
Section of Eating Disorders, Unit for Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Aalborg 
University Hospital, Aalborg, Denmark; Department of Clinical Medicine, Faculty 
of Medicine, Aalborg University, Aalborg, Denmark.

OBJECTIVE: Few studies of cognitive functioning in children and adolescents with 
anorexia nervosa (AN) have been conducted. The aim of this study was to examine 
the neurocognitive and intelligence profile of this clinical group.
METHOD: The study was a matched case-control (N = 188), multi-centre study 
including children and adolescents with AN (N = 94) and healthy control 
participants (N = 94).
RESULTS: The results suggest that Full Scale Intelligence Quotient (Wechsler 
Intelligence Scale for Children-III/Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-III) in 
this patient group is close to the normal population mean of 100. Individuals 
with AN exhibited significantly worse performance in nonverbal intelligence 
functions (i.e. Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children-III/Wechsler Adult 
Intelligence Scale-III, Perceptual Organization Index) and in verbal memory 
(Test of Memory and Learning-Second Edition, Memory for Stories) and motor speed 
(Cambridge Neuropsychological Test Automated Battery, Simple and Choice Reaction 
Time) compared with healthy control participants. No significant difference in 
set-shifting ability (Cambridge Neuropsychological Test Automated Battery, 
Intra-Extra Dimensional Set Shift and Trail Making Test B) was found.
CONCLUSIONS: Inefficiency in nonverbal intelligence functions and in specific 
cognitive functions was found in this study of children and adolescents with AN.

© 2014 The Authors. European Eating Disorders Review published by John Wiley & 
Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/erv.2337
PMCID: PMC4309487
PMID: 25504443 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1606. J Intell Inf Syst. 2014 Dec;43(3):503-519. doi: 10.1007/s10844-014-0341-4.

Mining the Home Environment.

Cook DJ(1), Krishnan N(1).

Author information:
(1)Washington State University, Pullman, WA 99164-2752.

Individuals spend a majority of their time in their home or workplace and for 
many, these places are our sanctuaries. As society and technology advance there 
is a growing interest in improving the intelligence of the environments in which 
we live and work. By filling home environments with sensors and collecting data 
during daily routines, researchers can gain insights on human daily behavior and 
the impact of behavior on the residents and their environments. In this article 
we provide an overview of the data mining opportunities and challenges that 
smart environments provide for researchers and offer some suggestions for future 
work in this area.

DOI: 10.1007/s10844-014-0341-4
PMCID: PMC4264109
PMID: 25506128


1607. Front Hum Neurosci. 2014 Nov 28;8:952. doi: 10.3389/fnhum.2014.00952. 
eCollection 2014.

Sleep spindling and fluid intelligence across adolescent development: sex 
matters.

Bódizs R(1), Gombos F(2), Ujma PP(3), Kovács I(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Behavioural Sciences, Semmelweis University Budapest, Hungary ; 
Department of General Psychology, Pázmány Péter Catholic University Budapest, 
Hungary.
(2)Department of General Psychology, Pázmány Péter Catholic University Budapest, 
Hungary.
(3)Institute of Behavioural Sciences, Semmelweis University Budapest, Hungary.

Evidence supports the intricate relationship between sleep electroencephalogram 
(EEG) spindling and cognitive abilities in children and adults. Although sleep 
EEG changes during adolescence index fundamental brain reorganization, a 
detailed analysis of sleep spindling and the spindle-intelligence relationship 
was not yet provided for adolescents. Therefore, adolescent development of sleep 
spindle oscillations were studied in a home polysomnographic study focusing on 
the effects of chronological age and developmentally acquired overall mental 
efficiency (fluid IQ) with sex as a potential modulating factor. Subjects were 
24 healthy adolescents (12 males) with an age range of 15-22 years (mean: 18 
years) and fluid IQ of 91-126 (mean: 104.12, Raven Progressive Matrices Test). 
Slow spindles (SSs) and fast spindles (FSs) were analyzed in 21 EEG derivations 
by using the individual adjustment method (IAM). A significant age-dependent 
increase in average FS density (r = 0.57; p = 0.005) was found. Moreover, fluid 
IQ correlated with FS density (r = 0.43; p = 0.04) and amplitude (r = 0.41; p = 
0.049). The latter effects were entirely driven by particularly reliable FS-IQ 
correlations in females [r = 0.80 (p = 0.002) and r = 0.67 (p = 0.012), for 
density and amplitude, respectively]. Region-specific analyses revealed that 
these correlations peak in the fronto-central regions. The control of the 
age-dependence of FS measures and IQ scores did not considerably reduce the 
spindle-IQ correlations with respect to FS density. The only positive 
spindle-index of fluid IQ in males turned out to be the frequency of FSs (r = 
0.60, p = 0.04). Increases in FS density during adolescence may index reshaped 
structural connectivity related to white matter maturation in the late 
developing human brain. The continued development over this age range of 
cognitive functions is indexed by specific measures of sleep spindling 
unraveling gender differences in adolescent brain maturation and perhaps 
cognitive strategy.

DOI: 10.3389/fnhum.2014.00952
PMCID: PMC4246682
PMID: 25506322


1608. BMC Pediatr. 2014 Dec 16;14:308. doi: 10.1186/s12887-014-0308-1.

Early life determinants of low IQ at age 6 in children from the 2004 Pelotas 
Birth Cohort: a predictive approach.

Camargo-Figuera FA(1)(2), Barros AJ(3), Santos IS(4), Matijasevich A(5)(6), 
Barros FC(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Postgraduate Program in Epidemiology, Federal University of Pelotas, Pelotas, 
Brazil. falcamfi@uis.edu.co.
(2)Universidad Industrial de Santander (UIS), Bucaramanga, Colombia. 
falcamfi@uis.edu.co.
(3)Postgraduate Program in Epidemiology, Federal University of Pelotas, Pelotas, 
Brazil. abarros.epi@gmail.com.
(4)Postgraduate Program in Epidemiology, Federal University of Pelotas, Pelotas, 
Brazil. inasantos@uol.com.br.
(5)Postgraduate Program in Epidemiology, Federal University of Pelotas, Pelotas, 
Brazil. amatija@yahoo.com.
(6)Department of Preventive Medicine, School of Medicine, University of São 
Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil. amatija@yahoo.com.
(7)Postgraduate Program in Epidemiology, Federal University of Pelotas, Pelotas, 
Brazil. fcbarros.epi@gmail.com.
(8)Postgraduate Program in Health and Behavior, Catholic University of Pelotas, 
Pelotas, Brazil. fcbarros.epi@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Childhood intelligence is an important determinant of health 
outcomes in adulthood. The first years of life are critical to child 
development. This study aimed to identify early life (perinatal and during the 
first year of life) predictors of low cognitive performance at age 6.
METHODS: A birth cohort study started in the city of Pelotas, southern Brazil, 
in 2004 and children were followed from birth to age six. Information on a broad 
set of biological and social predictors was collected. Cognitive ability-the 
study outcome-was assessed using the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children 
(WISC). IQ scores were standardized into z-scores and low IQ defined as z < -1. 
We applied bootstrapping methods for internal validation with a multivariate 
logistic regression model and carried out external validation using a second 
study from the 1993 Pelotas Birth Cohort.
RESULTS: The proportion of children with IQ z-score < -1 was 16.9% (95% CI 
15.6-18.1). The final model included the following early life variables: child's 
gender; parents' skin color; number of siblings; father's and mother's 
employment status; household income; maternal education; number of persons per 
room; duration of breastfeeding; height-for-age deficit; head 
circumference-for-age deficit; parental smoking during pregnancy; and maternal 
perception of the child's health status. The area under the ROC curve for our 
final model was 0.8, with sensitivity of 72% and specificity of 74%. Similar 
results were found when testing external validation by using data from the 1993 
Pelotas Birth Cohort.
CONCLUSIONS: The study results suggest that a child's and her/his family's 
social conditions are strong predictors of cognitive ability in childhood. 
Interventions for promoting a healthy early childhood development are needed 
targeting children at risk of low IQ so that they can reach their full cognitive 
potential.

DOI: 10.1186/s12887-014-0308-1
PMCID: PMC4272809
PMID: 25510879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1609. Compr Psychiatry. 2015 Feb;57:65-72. doi: 10.1016/j.comppsych.2014.11.022. Epub 
2014 Nov 28.

The role of emotional intelligence in symptom reduction after psychotherapy in a 
heterogeneous psychiatric sample.

Nyklíček I(1), Schalken P(2), Meertens S(2).

Author information:
(1)Center for Research in Psychology in Somatic Disease (CoRPS), Department of 
Medical and Clinical Psychology, Tilburg University, Tilburg, the Netherlands. 
Electronic address: i.nyklicek@tilburguniversity.edu.
(2)Center for Psychological Recovery, Berlicumseweg 8, 5248 NT Rosmalen, 
Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Emotional intelligence of the patient has been claimed to 
potentially be an important factor in psychotherapy. Empirical studies are 
largely lacking. The purpose of this study was to examine if (i) 
pre-intervention emotional intelligence predicts outcome of psychotherapy and 
(ii) change in emotional intelligence during psychotherapy is associated with 
change in symptoms in a patient sample with heterogeneous psychiatric symptoms.
METHODS: Participants were 166 patients with different diagnoses who were 
hospitalized at the Center for Psychological Recovery. Before, after 
hospitalization and 6months after hospitalization they were asked to complete 
the BarOn-EQi for emotional intelligence and the Symptom Checklist-90.
RESULTS: Level of emotional intelligence at the start of hospitalization largely 
did not predict psychological symptoms at post-intervention or at 6month 
follow-up. However, an increase in the level of emotional intelligence over the 
course of the intervention was associated with lower levels of psychological 
symptoms, both immediately post-intervention and at 6-month follow-up.
CONCLUSIONS: The results suggest that while the pre-intervention level of 
emotional intelligence has no substantial effect on treatment outcome, an 
increase in emotional intelligence may have a positive effect on symptom 
decrease and on the preservation of treatment results.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.comppsych.2014.11.022
PMID: 25511325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1610. J Trace Elem Med Biol. 2015 Apr;30:107-11. doi: 10.1016/j.jtemb.2014.11.007. 
Epub 2014 Nov 28.

Performance IQ in children is associated with blood cadmium concentration in 
early pregnancy.

Jeong KS(1), Park H(2), Ha E(3), Hong YC(4), Ha M(5), Park H(3), Kim BN(6), Lee 
BE(7), Lee SJ(8), Lee KY(9), Kim JH(9), Kim Y(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Occupational and Environmental Medicine, Dongguk University 
College of Medicine, Dongguk University Ilsan Hospital, Goyang, Republic of 
Korea.
(2)Dept of Child and Family Welfare, University of Ulsan, Ulsan, Republic of 
Korea.
(3)Department of Preventive Medicine, Ewha Medical Research Center, School of 
Medicine, Ewha Womans University, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(4)Institute of Environmental Medicine, Medical Research Center, Seoul National 
University, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(5)Department of Preventive Medicine, College of Medicine, Dankook University, 
Cheonan, Republic of Korea.
(6)Department of Psychiatry, College of Medicine, Seoul National University, 
Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(7)Environmental Health Research Division, National Institute of Environmental 
Research, Incheon, Republic of Korea.
(8)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Ulsan University Hospital, 
University of Ulsan College of Medicine, Ulsan, Republic of Korea.
(9)Department of Pediatrics, Ulsan University Hospital, University of Ulsan 
College of Medicine, Ulsan, Republic of Korea.
(10)Department of Occupational and Environmental Medicine, Ulsan University 
Hospital, University of Ulsan College of Medicine, Ulsan, Republic of Korea. 
Electronic address: yanghokm@nuri.net.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate whether performance IQ in children is associated with 
maternal blood cadmium concentration in early pregnancy.
METHOD: The present study is a component of the Mothers' and Children's 
Environmental Health (MOCEH) study, a multi-center birth cohort project in Korea 
that began in 2006. The study cohort consisted of 119 children whose mothers 
underwent testing of blood cadmium during early pregnancy. All children were 
evaluated using the Korean version of the Wechsler Preschool and Primary Scale 
of Intelligence, revised edition (WPPSI-R), at 60 months of age. Multivariate 
linear regression analysis was performed to analyze the correlation between IQ 
in children and maternal blood cadmium concentration in early pregnancy, after 
adjustment for covariates.
RESULTS: Maternal blood cadmium concentration during early pregnancy was 
inversely associated with performance IQ, after adjustment for covariates such 
as sex, educational levels of both parents, family income, and maternal BMI. 
Maternal blood cadmium concentration, however, was not associated with cognitive 
IQ.
CONCLUSION: Performance IQ in children is associated with maternal blood cadmium 
concentration in early pregnancy.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtemb.2014.11.007
PMID: 25511909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1611. J Adv Med Educ Prof. 2014 Jan;2(1):20-6.

The relationship between emotional intelligence and job stress in the faculty of 
medicine in Isfahan University of Medical Sciences.

Yamani N(1), Shahabi M(2), Haghani F(1).

Author information:
(1)Medical Education Research Center, Medical Education Department, Isfahan 
University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran;
(2)Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.

INTRODUCTION: health care professionals especially clinicians, undergo lots of 
job stress (JS). Emotional intelligence (EI) is among the variables that appear 
to be associated with stress. It is also included among the ways adopted by the 
individuals in order to resist JS in the workplace. Thus, this study aims to 
investigate the relationship between EI and JS in the faculty members of Isfahan 
University of Medical Sciences (IUMS).
METHODS: This was a correlational study performed on 202 faculty members of 
IUMS. The data was gathered through two valid and reliable questionnaires 
(Bradberry EI questionnaire and JS questionnaire), being analyzed by SPSS 
software using descriptive statistics, Pearson correlation coefficient, t-test, 
analysis of variance (ANOVA) and linear regression analysis (α=0.05).
RESULTS: 142 individuals (70.30%) filled out the questionnaires. 75% of the 
respondents were male and 98% were married. There was an inverse correlation 
between the total score of EI and the level of JS (r=-0.235, p=0.005). Moreover, 
among the factors of EI, self-awareness and self-management scores had 
significant inverse relationship with the level of JS. Linear regression 
analysis showed that the EI factors explained approximately 7% of the variance 
of JS levels of the teachers.
CONCLUSIONS: Individuals with high EI have less JS. Since the EI can be taught, 
it can be expected that the JS of faculty members can be reduced through 
training them on emotional intelligence. Therefore, it is recommended that 
short-term training courses be scheduled and designed based on the concepts of 
EI for teachers, particularly clinicians.

PMCID: PMC4235538
PMID: 25512914


1612. J Adv Med Educ Prof. 2014 Oct;2(4):138-45.

Validity of transactional analysis and emotional intelligence in training 
nursing students.

Whitley-Hunter BL(1).

Author information:
(1)Masters in health administration, University of La Verne, La Verne, United 
States.

INTRODUCTION: Emotional intelligence (EI) is considered a critical component of 
a nurse's characteristic trait which is known as a significant predictor of a 
person's job performance and life success. Transactional Analysis (TA) plays a 
fundamental role in nurse-patient communication and managing emotions during 
difficult dialect with patients. The aim of this review is to discuss the 
framework of EI and TA, and how the combined theories can be utilized to further 
educate nurses and enhance the patient's experience. Exploring the idea of 
combining EI, TA, and other theories and adding these addendums to the nursing 
curriculum may advance the empathy and communication skills of nursing students.
METHODS: The method used in this review is a literature search using databases, 
such as Medline, EBSCO, and Google Scholar, etc. to form a critical discussion 
of this area. Key words such as emotional intelligence, transactional analysis, 
nursing curriculum, and relating theoretical models were used to identify 
applicable documents. Four studies involving EI and TA were sampled. A 
combination of data collection tools, such as lecture series and intervention 
programs, were used to authenticate the results. Other instruments used were ego 
state questionnaires, empathy, and five point Likert scales. No study design or 
type of literature was excluded in healthcare to substantiate the application of 
EI and TA into the nursing curriculum.
RESULTS: Sixteen nurses attended a six-week psycho-education program using 
communication and empathy scales, and patient satisfaction surveys to improve 
their empathetic and communication skills. The result of the mean communication 
score (177.8±20) increased to (198.8±15) after training (p=0.001). The empathy 
score increased from 25.7±7 to 32.6±6 (p=0.001). The overall result reflects 
that training can improve emergency nurse's communication and empathy skills.
CONCLUSION: The data suggests there are under-researched theories with 
futuristic topics that have value to the nursing community. Suitable evaluation 
of these theories is vital to nursing education. Implementation and training for 
nursing students and existing nurses may help shift the culture of medical 
education ahead by creating a more educated and empathetic work environment.

PMCID: PMC4235560
PMID: 25512937


1613. Epilepsy Behav. 2015 Jan;42:18-21. doi: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2014.11.015. Epub 2014 
Dec 13.

Epilepsy-related stigma in European people with epilepsy: correlations with 
health system performance and overall quality of life.

Brigo F(1), Igwe SC(2), Ausserer H(3), Tezzon F(3), Nardone R(4), Otte WM(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurological and Movement Sciences, Section of Clinical 
Neurology, University of Verona, Italy; Department of Neurology, Franz Tappeiner 
Hospital, Merano, Italy. Electronic address: dr.francescobrigo@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Neuro-Psychiatry, Federal Teaching Hospital, Abakaliki, Ebonyi 
State, Nigeria.
(3)Department of Neurology, Franz Tappeiner Hospital, Merano, Italy.
(4)Department of Neurology, Franz Tappeiner Hospital, Merano, Italy; Department 
of Neurology, Christian Doppler Clinic, Paracelsus Medical University, Salzburg, 
Austria.
(5)Department of Pediatric Neurology, Brain Center Rudolf Magnus, University 
Medical Center Utrecht, The Netherlands; Biomedical MR Imaging and Spectroscopy 
Group, Image Sciences Institute, University Medical Center Utrecht, The 
Netherlands.

We aimed to relate the percentages of encountered epilepsy-related stigma in 
people with epilepsy with quantitative indicators of the quality of health 
systems and quality of life by country in Europe. The epilepsy-related stigma 
percentages were obtained from the largest population-based study in people with 
epilepsy available. We correlated percentages of people with perceived stigma 
per European country with data on the country's overall health system 
performance, health expenditure per capita in international dollars, and the 
Economist Intelligence Unit's quality-of-life index. We found a nonsignificant 
trend towards negative correlation between the epilepsy-related stigma 
percentage and the overall health system performance (r=-0.16; p=0.57), the 
health expenditure per capita in international dollars (r=-0.24; p=0.4), and the 
Economist Intelligence Unit's quality-of-life index (r=-0.33; p=0.91). Living in 
a European country with a better health system performance and higher health 
expenditure per capita does not necessarily lead to a reduction in perceived 
epilepsy-related discrimination, unless the public health system invests on 
awareness programs to increase public knowledge and reduce stigma.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2014.11.015
PMID: 25513766 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1614. PLoS One. 2014 Dec 16;9(12):e115212. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0115212. 
eCollection 2014.

Reading the Mind in the Eyes or reading between the lines? Theory of Mind 
predicts collective intelligence equally well online and face-to-face.

Engel D(1), Woolley AW(2), Jing LX(1), Chabris CF(3), Malone TW(1).

Author information:
(1)Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Sloan School of Management, Cambridge, 
Massachusetts, United States of America; Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 
Center for Collective Intelligence, Cambridge, Massachusetts, United States of 
America.
(2)Carnegie Mellon University, Tepper School of Business, Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania, United States of America; Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 
Center for Collective Intelligence, Cambridge, Massachusetts, United States of 
America.
(3)Union College, Department of Psychology, Schenectady, New York, United States 
of America; Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Center for Collective 
Intelligence, Cambridge, Massachusetts, United States of America.

Recent research with face-to-face groups found that a measure of general group 
effectiveness (called "collective intelligence") predicted a group's performance 
on a wide range of different tasks. The same research also found that collective 
intelligence was correlated with the individual group members' ability to reason 
about the mental states of others (an ability called "Theory of Mind" or "ToM"). 
Since ToM was measured in this work by a test that requires participants to 
"read" the mental states of others from looking at their eyes (the "Reading the 
Mind in the Eyes" test), it is uncertain whether the same results would emerge 
in online groups where these visual cues are not available. Here we find that: 
(1) a collective intelligence factor characterizes group performance 
approximately as well for online groups as for face-to-face groups; and (2) 
surprisingly, the ToM measure is equally predictive of collective intelligence 
in both face-to-face and online groups, even though the online groups 
communicate only via text and never see each other at all. This provides strong 
evidence that ToM abilities are just as important to group performance in online 
environments with limited nonverbal cues as they are face-to-face. It also 
suggests that the Reading the Mind in the Eyes test measures a deeper, 
domain-independent aspect of social reasoning, not merely the ability to 
recognize facial expressions of mental states.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0115212
PMCID: PMC4267836
PMID: 25514387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors received 
funding for the research described in this article from Cisco Systems, Inc. 
through their sponsorship of the MIT Center for Collective Intelligence. There 
are no patents, products in development or marketed products to declare. This 
does not alter the authors' adherence to all the PLOS ONE policies on sharing 
data and materials.


1615. Artif Life. 2015 Winter;21(1):21-46. doi: 10.1162/ARTL_a_00150. Epub 2014 Dec 
16.

Investigating Biological Assumptions through Radical Reimplementation.

Lehman J(1), Stanley KO.

Author information:
(1)The University of Texas at Austin.

An important goal in both artificial life and biology is uncovering the most 
general principles underlying life, which might catalyze both our understanding 
of life and engineering lifelike machines. While many such general principles 
have been hypothesized, conclusively testing them is difficult because life on 
Earth provides only a singular example from which to infer. To circumvent this 
limitation, this article formalizes an approach called radical reimplementation. 
The idea is to investigate an abstract biological hypothesis by intentionally 
reimplementing its main principles to diverge maximally from existing natural 
examples. If the reimplementation successfully exhibits properties resembling 
biology, it may support the underlying hypothesis better than an alternative 
example inspired more directly by nature. The approach thereby provides a 
principled alternative to a common tradition of defending and minimizing 
deviations from nature in artificial life. This work reviews examples that can 
be interpreted through the lens of radical reimplementation to yield potential 
insights into biology despite having purposely unnatural experimental setups. In 
this way, radical reimplementation can help renew the relevance of computational 
systems for investigating biological theory and can act as a practical 
philosophical tool to help separate the fundamental features of terrestrial 
biology from the epiphenomenal.

DOI: 10.1162/ARTL_a_00150
PMID: 25514432


1616. Artif Life. 2015 Winter;21(1):47-54. doi: 10.1162/ARTL_a_00151. Epub 2014 Dec 
16.

Creating and maintaining chemical artificial life by robotic symbiosis.

Hanczyc MM(1), Parrilla JM, Nicholson A, Yanev K, Stoy K.

Author information:
(1)University of Trento and University of Southern Denmark.

We present a robotic platform based on the open source RepRap 3D printer that 
can print and maintain chemical artificial life in the form of a dynamic, 
chemical droplet. The robot uses computer vision, a self-organizing map, and a 
learning program to automatically categorize the behavior of the droplet that it 
creates. The robot can then use this categorization to autonomously detect the 
current state of the droplet and respond. The robot is programmed to visually 
track the droplet and either inject more chemical fuel to sustain a motile state 
or introduce a new chemical component that results in a state change (e.g., 
division). Coupling inexpensive open source hardware with sensing and feedback 
allows for replicable real-time manipulation and monitoring of nonequilibrium 
systems that would be otherwise tedious, expensive, and error-prone. This system 
is a first step towards the practical confluence of chemical, artificial 
intelligence, and robotic approaches to artificial life.

DOI: 10.1162/ARTL_a_00151
PMID: 25514433


1617. Psychogeriatrics. 2015 Mar;15(1):1-6. doi: 10.1111/psyg.12066. Epub 2014 Dec 17.

Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-III profile in the early stages of Alzheimer's 
disease: performance in subtests sensitive to and resistant to normal decline 
with ageing.

Matsuda O(1), Saito M, Kato M, Azami H, Shido E.

Author information:
(1)Tokyo Gakugei University, Tokyo, Japan.

AIM: This study examined the significance of age-related subtest scores from the 
Japanese version of the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-III in patients in the 
early stages of Alzheimer's disease (AD).
METHODS: The subjects of this study included 58 elderly Japanese persons 
classified into two groups: AD group (n = 29) and control group (n = 29). These 
groups did not differ in age, years of education, gender ratio, Hasegawa's 
Dementia Scale-Revised score, or Full-Scale IQ score. No subject scored below 
the cut-off point on Hasegawa's Dementia Scale-Revised, a frequently used 
dementia screen test in Japan.
RESULTS: At the index score level, General Ability Index scores were the only 
scores that differed significantly between the groups, with the AD group scoring 
significantly lower than the control group (P < 0.05, Hedges' g = 0.54). At the 
subtest level, information scores were the only scores that differed 
significantly between the groups, with the AD group significantly lower than the 
control group (P < 0.01, Hedges' g = 0.74).
CONCLUSION: The General Ability Index is a composite score that deducts 
components of working memory and processing speed, which are sensitive to 
decline with normal ageing, from the Full-Scale IQ. It also served as a subtest 
measuring crystallized intelligence, especially of acquired knowledge of general 
and factual information. Therefore, the results of this study seem to suggest 
that Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-III profile of very early AD may be 
characterized by weak performance on subtests normally resistant to decline with 
ageing.

© 2014 The Authors. Psychogeriatrics © 2014 Japanese Psychogeriatric Society.

DOI: 10.1111/psyg.12066
PMID: 25515267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1618. Hist Philos Life Sci. 2014;36(2):280-8. doi: 10.1007/s40656-014-0029-7.

Lederberg on bacterial recombination, Haldane, and cold war genetics: an 
interview.

Sarkar S.

Joshua Lederberg (1925-2008), was one of the pioneers of molecular genetics 
perhaps best known for his discovery of genetic recombination in bacteria which 
earned him a Nobel Prize in 1958 (shared with George Beadle and Edward Tatum). 
Lederberg's interests were broad including the origin of life, exobiology (a 
term that he coined) and emerging diseases and artificial intelligence in his, 
later years. This article contains the transcription of an interview in 
excerpts, docu- menting the interactions between Lederberg and fellow biologist 
J.B.S. Haldane wlich lasted from 1946 until Haldane's death in Kolkata (then 
Calcutta) in 1964.

DOI: 10.1007/s40656-014-0029-7
PMID: 25515361 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1619. Nurs Stand. 2014 Dec 31;29(16):63. doi: 10.7748/ns.29.16.63.s48.

Leave it to Florence.

Whyatt J.

There are four practice nurses at Heatherlands Medical Centre in Woodchurch, 
Cheshire--and one 'intelligent system' named Florence. With a voice like a car 
satnav, 'she' is a software robot, or Artificial Intelligence (AI).

DOI: 10.7748/ns.29.16.63.s48
PMID: 25515486 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1620. Clin Infect Dis. 2015 Apr 1;60(7):1111-9. doi: 10.1093/cid/ciu1144. Epub 2014 
Dec 16.

Poorer cognitive performance in perinatally HIV-infected children versus healthy 
socioeconomically matched controls.

Cohen S(1), Ter Stege JA(2), Geurtsen GJ(3), Scherpbier HJ(1), Kuijpers TW(1), 
Reiss P(4), Schmand B(5), Pajkrt D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Hematology, Immunology, and Infectious Diseases.
(2)Department of Pediatric Hematology, Immunology, and Infectious Diseases 
Psychosocial Department, Emma Children's Hospital, Academic Medical Center, 
University of Amsterdam.
(3)Department of Neurology, Academic Medical Center Amsterdam.
(4)Department of Global Health, Academic Medical Center, University of 
Amsterdam, and Amsterdam Institute of Global Health and Development HIV 
Monitoring Foundation Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Infectious 
Diseases, Center for Infection and Immunity Amsterdam, Academic Medical Center.
(5)Department of Neurology, Academic Medical Center Amsterdam Department of 
Psychology, University of Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Despite the declining incidence of severe neurological complications 
such as HIV encephalopathy, human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection in 
children is still associated with a range of cognitive problems. Although most 
HIV-infected children in industrialized countries are immigrants with a 
relatively low socioeconomic status (SES), cognitive studies comparing 
HIV-infected children to SES-matched controls are lacking.
METHODS: This cross-sectional study included perinatally HIV-infected children 
and controls matched for age, sex, ethnicity, and SES, who completed a 
neuropsychological assessment evaluating intelligence, information processing 
speed, attention, memory, executive function, and visual-motor function. 
Multivariate normative comparison was used to assess the prevalence of cognitive 
impairment in the HIV-infected group. Multivariable regression analyses were 
performed to identify HIV- and combination antiretroviral therapy-related 
factors associated with cognitive performance.
RESULTS: In total, 35 perinatally HIV-infected children (median age, 13.8 years; 
median CD4 count, 770 × 10(6) cells/L; 83% with undetectable HIV RNA) and 37 
healthy children (median age, 12.1 years) were included. HIV-infected children 
scored lower than the healthy controls on all cognitive domains (eg, 
intelligence quotient [IQ], 76 [standard deviation {SD}, 15.7] vs 87.5 [SD, 
13.6] for HIV-infected vs healthy children; P = .002). Cognitive impairment was 
found in 6 HIV-infected children (17%). The Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention (CDC) clinical category at HIV diagnosis was inversely associated 
with verbal IQ (CDC clinical category C: coefficient -22.98; P = .010).
CONCLUSIONS: Our results show that cognitive performance of HIV-infected 
children is poor compared with that of SES-matched healthy controls. Gaining 
insight into these cognitive deficits is essential, as subtle impairments may 
progress to more pronounced complications that will influence future 
intellectual performance, job opportunities, and community participation of 
HIV-infected children.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Infectious Diseases Society of America. All rights reserved. For Permissions, 
please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/cid/ciu1144
PMID: 25516183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1621. Asia Pac J Clin Nutr. 2014;23(4):651-9. doi: 10.6133/apjcn.2014.23.4.02.

Body satisfaction, emotional intelligence, and the development of disturbed 
eating: a survey of Taiwanese students.

Wong Y(1), Lin JS, Chang YJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutrition, Chungshan Medical University, 110 Sec.1, Jien-Kuo 
North Road, Taichung City 402, Taiwan, ROC. wyc@csmu.edu.tw.

PURPOSE: This study explored the relationship between adolescents' emotional 
intelligence and the tendency to develop an eating disorder.
METHODS: Senior high school students in Taiwan were recruited for the study. A 
3- part anonymous questionnaire measured demographic information, body weight 
satisfaction, and expectation of body weight. Students also completed the 
Adolescent Emotional Intelligence Scale and the Eating Disorders Attitude- 26 
Test (EAT-26). Height and weight were also measured.
RESULTS: The mean of EAT-26 score was 8.66 ± 7.36, and 8.6% students were at 
high risk to develop eating disorders. Gender, body weight, body dissatisfaction 
and the expected body shape were significantly related to disturbed eating 
attitudes and behaviours. Scores of EAT-26 were positively correlated with 
emotional perception, emotional expression, and emotional application.
CONCLUSIONS: Disturbed eating behaviours exist among adolescents in Taiwan, and 
these behaviours may be related to emotional intelligence. However further 
studies with larger samples are needed.

Publisher: 目的：本研究旨在探討青少年的情商與病態飲食行為傾向的相關性。方法： 以臺灣的高中生為研究對象，以匿名自填式問卷為研究工具，內容包括: 人口 
學資訊、體型滿意度、期待體重、青少年情商量表及病態飲食態度測試 (EAT- 26) ， 並測量身高體重。結果： 病態飲食態度測試(EAT-26) 的平均分為 
8.66±7.36，8.6%的學生為病態飲食行為傾向高危人群(EAT-26>=20)。學生的性 別、體重、體型滿意度及期望體型與病態飲食態度和行為有顯著相關性。 
EAT-26 的分數與情緒察覺、情緒表達及情緒應用顯著正相關。結論：臺灣青 少年確實存在病態飲食行為，且這些行為可能和情商有關，然而此相關議題需 
要有更大樣本數的研究來證實。

DOI: 10.6133/apjcn.2014.23.4.02
PMID: 25516324 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1622. Arq Neuropsiquiatr. 2014 Dec;72(12):954-9. doi: 10.1590/0004-282X20140191.

Clinical and neuropsychological assessment of executive function in a sample of 
children and adolescents with idiopathic epilepsy.

Lima AB(1), Moreira F(2), Gomes Mda M(1), Maia-Filho H(2).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Psiquiatria, Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro, Rio de 
Janeiro, RJ, Brazil.
(2)Departamento de Neurologia, Universidade Federal Fluminense, Niterói, RJ, 
Brazil.

OBJECTIVE: To compare the executive functions of children and adolescents with 
idiopathic epilepsy with a control group and to correlate with clinical data, 
intelligence and academic performance.
METHOD: Cross-sectional, descriptive and analytical study. Thirty-one cases and 
thirty-five controls were evaluated by the WCST (Wisconsin Card Sorting 
Test).The results were compared with clinical data (seizure type and frequency, 
disease duration and number of antiepileptic drugs used), IQ (WISC-III) and 
academic performance (APT).
RESULTS: Patients with epilepsy had poorer executive function scores. There was 
no positive linear correlation between test scores and epilepsy variables. There 
was a positive association between academic performance and some executive 
function results.
CONCLUSION: Children with well controlled idiopathic epilepsy may show deficits 
in executive functions in spite of clinical variables. Those deficits may 
influence academic performance.

DOI: 10.1590/0004-282X20140191
PMID: 25517644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1623. J Med Assoc Thai. 2014 Feb;97 Suppl 2:S77-87.

Effects of phenytoin and valproic acid on cognitive functions of Thai epileptic 
patients: a pilot study.

Sirisamut T, Chinvarun Y, Tantisira MH.

Effects of valproic acid (VPA) and phenytoin (PHT), as monotherapy, on cognitive 
functions and mood of Thai epileptic patients were investigated. Thai Mental 
Status Examination (TMSE) and Alcohol Use Disorder Identification Test (AUDIT) 
were used to screen for eligible subjects. Cognitive performance was assessed by 
neuropsychological tests including Stroop Color Word Test (SCWT), Wechsler 
Abbreviated Scale of Intelligence (WASI) test, Profiles of Mood States (POMS) 
and Adverse Event Profiles (AEP). Thirty epileptic patients, 15 taking PHT and 
15 taking VPA, and 15 age and sex matched normal comparators were enrolled. In 
contrast to the effects of VPA, a statistically significant difference in 
T-score of WASl similarities and WASI-matrix reasoning subtests was observed 
between PHT and normal comparator group indicating poorer performance in 
intellectualfunctioning especially in executive function of the brain in 
patients taking PHT Vigor is the only mood dimension that demonstrated 
significant difference between epileptic patients and normal comparators. VPA 
appears to be more appropriate than PHT when executive brain function is mostly 
concerned, however, further investigation is needed to gain better insight into 
the effects of AEDs on cognitive domain of the Thai epileptic patients.

PMID: 25518179 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1624. Nat Commun. 2014 Dec 18;5:5658. doi: 10.1038/ncomms6658.

Distinct aspects of frontal lobe structure mediate age-related differences in 
fluid intelligence and multitasking.

Kievit RA(1), Davis SW(2), Mitchell DJ(1), Taylor JR(3), Duncan J(1); Cam-CAN 
Research Team; Henson RN(1); Cam-CAN Research Team.

Collaborators: Tyler LK(4), Brayne C(4), Bullmore E(4), Calder A(4), Cusack 
R(4), Dalgleish T(4), Matthews F(4), Marslen-Wilson W(4), Rowe J(4), Shafto 
M(4), Campbell K(4), Cheung T(4), Geerligs L(4), McCarrey A(4), Tsvetanov K(4), 
Williams N(4), Bates L(4), Emery T(4), Erzinçlioglu S(4), Gadie A(4), Gerbase 
S(4), Georgieva S(4), Hanley C(4), Parkin B(4), Troy D(4), Allen J(4), Amery 
G(4), Amunts L(4), Barcroft A(4), Castle A(4), Dias C(4), Dowrick J(4), Fair 
M(4), Fisher H(4), Goulding A(4), Grewal A(4), Hale G(4), Hilton A(4), Johnson 
F(4), Johnston P(4), Kavanagh-Williamson T(4), Kwasniewska M(4), McMinn A(4), 
Norman K(4), Penrose J(4), Roby F(4), Rowland D(4), Sargeant J(4), Squire M(4), 
Stevens B(4), Stoddart A(4), Stone C(4), Thompson T(4), Yazlik O(4), Barnes 
D(4), Dixon M(4), Hillman J(4), Mitchell J(4), Villis L(4).

Author information:
(1)MRC Cognition and Brain Sciences Unit, 15 Chaucer Road, Cambridge CB2 7EF, 
UK.
(2)Department of Psychology, University of Cambridge, Downing Street, Cambridge 
CB2 3EB, UK.
(3)1] MRC Cognition and Brain Sciences Unit, 15 Chaucer Road, Cambridge CB2 7EF, 
UK [2] School of Psychological Sciences, The University of Manchester, Brunswick 
Street, Manchester M13 9PL, UK.
(4)Cambridge Centre for Ageing and Neuroscience (Cam-CAN), University of 
Cambridge and MRC Cognition and Brain Sciences Unit, Cambridge CB2 7EF, UK.

Ageing is characterized by declines on a variety of cognitive measures. These 
declines are often attributed to a general, unitary underlying cause, such as a 
reduction in executive function owing to atrophy of the prefrontal cortex. 
However, age-related changes are likely multifactorial, and the relationship 
between neural changes and cognitive measures is not well-understood. Here we 
address this in a large (N=567), population-based sample drawn from the 
Cambridge Centre for Ageing and Neuroscience (Cam-CAN) data. We relate fluid 
intelligence and multitasking to multiple brain measures, including grey matter 
in various prefrontal regions and white matter integrity connecting those 
regions. We show that multitasking and fluid intelligence are separable 
cognitive abilities, with differential sensitivities to age, which are mediated 
by distinct neural subsystems that show different prediction in older versus 
younger individuals. These results suggest that prefrontal ageing is a manifold 
process demanding multifaceted models of neurocognitive ageing.

DOI: 10.1038/ncomms6658
PMCID: PMC4284640
PMID: 25519467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1625. Encephale. 2015 Jun;41(3):266-73. doi: 10.1016/j.encep.2014.10.005. Epub 2014 
Dec 16.

[Neurocognitive and psychiatric management of the 22q11.2 deletion syndrome].

[Article in French]

Demily C(1), Rossi M(2), Schneider M(3), Edery P(2), Leleu A(4), d'Amato T(5), 
Franck N(6), Eliez S(7).

Author information:
(1)Centre de dépistage et de prise en charge des troubles psychiatriques 
d'origine génétique, pôle Ouest, centre hospitalier Le Vinatier, 95, boulevard 
Pinel, 69677 Bron cedex, France; Centre de neuroscience cognitive, UMR 5229 
(CNRS et université Lyon 1), 67, boulevard Pinel, 69675 Bron cedex, France. 
Electronic address: caroline.demily@ch-le-vinatier.fr.
(2)Service de génétique et centre de référence des anomalies du développement, 
GHE, hospices civils de Lyon, 59, boulevard Pinel, 69500 Bron, France; Centre de 
recherche en neurosciences de Lyon, Inserm U1028, UMR CNRS 5292, université 
Claude-Bernard - Lyon 1, 95, boulevard Pinel, 69500 Bron, France.
(3)Unité de recherche de l'Office médico-pédagogique, département de 
psychiatrie, faculté de médecine, université de Genève, 24, rue du 
Général-Dufour, 1211 Genève 4, Suisse.
(4)Université de Bourgogne, esplanade Erasme, 21078 Dijon, France.
(5)Centre de dépistage et de prise en charge des troubles psychiatriques 
d'origine génétique, pôle Ouest, centre hospitalier Le Vinatier, 95, boulevard 
Pinel, 69677 Bron cedex, France; Pôle Est, centre hospitalier Le Vinatier, 95, 
boulevard Pinel, 69677 Bron cedex, France.
(6)Centre de neuroscience cognitive, UMR 5229 (CNRS et université Lyon 1), 67, 
boulevard Pinel, 69675 Bron cedex, France; SUR, centre hospitalier Le Vinatier, 
95, boulevard Pinel, 69500 Bron, France.
(7)Unité de recherche de l'Office médico-pédagogique, département de 
psychiatrie, faculté de médecine, université de Genève, 24, rue du 
Général-Dufour, 1211 Genève 4, Suisse; Département de médecine génétique et 
développement, faculté de médecine, université de Genève Michel-Servet 1, 24, 
rue du Général-Dufour, 1211 Genève 4, Suisse.

INTRODUCTION: The 22q11.2 deletion syndrome (22q11.2DS) is caused by hemizygous 
microdeletions on chromosome 22. 22q11.2DS has several presentations including 
Di George's syndrome, velo-cardio-facial syndrome or Shprintzen's syndrome and 
it is the most frequent microdeletion syndrome in the general population 
(prevalence estimated at 1/4000 births, de novo: 90%). The inheritance of the 
syndrome (10%) is autosomal dominant. Most people with 22q11.2DS are missing a 
sequence of about 3 million DNA building blocks (base pairs) on one copy of 
chromosome 22 in each cell. A small percentage of affected individuals have 
shorter deletions in the same region (contiguous gene deletion syndrome). The 
general features of 22q11.2DS vary widely (more than 180 phenotypic 
presentations) and the syndrome is under diagnosed. Characteristic symptoms may 
include congenital heart disease, defects in the palate, neuromuscular problems, 
velo-pharyngeal insufficiency, hypoparathyroidism, craniofacial features and 
problems with the immune system T-cell mediated response (caused by hypoplasia 
of the thymus).
COGNITIVE PHENOTYPE: The neurocognitive phenotype of the 22q11.2DS is complex. 
Cognitive deficits are seen in the majority (80-100%) of individuals with 
22q11DS with impairments in sustained attention, executive function, memory and 
visual-spatial perception. Borderline intellectual function (IQ: 70-75) is most 
common, mild intellectual disability (IQ: 55-75) is slightly less frequent and a 
small percentage of children fall into the low average intelligence range. Most 
children with 22q11.2DS achieve higher scores in verbal tasks than in non-verbal 
tasks, although this pattern of dysfunction being not universal. Brain MRI 
studies have shown volumetric changes in multiple cortical and subcortical 
regions in individuals with 22q11DS that could be related to both cognition and 
psychoses.
PSYCHIATRIC PHENOTYPE: General psychiatric features included anxiety disorders, 
attention deficit disorder and poor social skills (40-50%). An elevated risk of 
bipolar disorder and major depression occurs in adolescence and young adulthood. 
A strong and specific relationship exists between the presence of the 22q11.2 
microdeletion and schizophrenia (30-40%). This risk is not associated with any 
other neurogenetic syndrome. Social cognition is impaired in 22q11.2 DS and this 
observation is correlated with psychotic features. So, long-term medical care is 
increasingly being directed towards the treatment and recognition of these 
symptoms.
TREATMENT: Required pharmacological treatment strategies have to be adapted to 
the syndrome. Moreover, cognitive remediation is a promising tool for treating 
neuro- and social cognitive deficits in 22q11.2DS. However, these new 
therapeutic strategies have to be developed to improve quality of life.

Copyright © 2014 L’Encéphale, Paris. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.encep.2014.10.005
PMID: 25523123 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1626. J Psychiatr Ment Health Nurs. 2015 Jun;22(5):326-32. doi: 10.1111/jpm.12192. 
Epub 2014 Dec 18.

Nursing students' post-traumatic growth, emotional intelligence and 
psychological resilience.

Li Y(1), Cao F(1), Cao D(2), Liu J(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, Shandong University, Jinan, Shandong, China.
(2)Qianfo Hospital, Shandong University, Jinan, Shandong, China.

Nursing students in the present sample who have experienced childhood adversity 
have a certain level of post-traumatic growth. If introduced into nursing 
curricula, emotional intelligence interventions may increase emotional coping 
resources and enhance social skills for nurses, which may benefit their 
long-term occupational health. As researchers consider personal resilience a 
strategy for responding to workplace adversity in nurses, resilience building 
should be incorporated into nursing education. This is a preliminary study that 
may guide future investigations of the curvilinear relationship rather than 
linear relationship between post-traumatic growth and positive factors in the 
special sample of nursing students. Resilience, emotional intelligence and 
post-traumatic growth may benefit nursing students' careers and personal 
well-being in clinical work. Developing both their emotional intelligence and 
resilience may assist their individual post-traumatic growth and enhance their 
ability to cope with clinical stress. To investigate the relationships among 
post-traumatic growth, emotional intelligence and psychological resilience in 
vocational school nursing students who have experienced childhood adversities, a 
cross-sectional research design with anonymous questionnaires was conducted and 
self-report data were analysed. The Childhood Adversities Checklist (Chinese 
version), Posttraumatic Growth Inventory, Emotional Intelligence Scale and the 
10-item Connor-Davidson Resilience Scale were used. Survey data were collected 
from 202 Chinese vocational school nursing students during 2011. Post-traumatic 
growth was associated with emotional intelligence and psychological resilience. 
Results indicated a curvilinear relationship between emotional intelligence and 
post-traumatic growth, and between psychological resilience and post-traumatic 
growth. Moderate-level emotional intelligence and psychological resilience were 
most associated with the greatest levels of growth. The results imply that 
moderate resilience and emotional intelligence can help nursing students cope 
with adversity in their future clinical work. This study first provided 
preliminary data suggesting the curvilinear relationship rather than linear 
relationship between post-traumatic growth and positive factors in the sample of 
nursing students.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jpm.12192
PMID: 25524781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1627. Epilepsy Res. 2015 Jan;109:57-64. doi: 10.1016/j.eplepsyres.2014.10.009. Epub 
2014 Oct 28.

A prospective longitudinal study on visuo-cognitive development in Dravet 
syndrome: Is there a "dorsal stream vulnerability"?

Ricci D(1), Chieffo D(1), Battaglia D(1), Brogna C(1), Contaldo I(1), De 
Clemente V(1), Losito E(1), Dravet Ch(1), Mercuri E(1), Guzzetta F(2).

Author information:
(1)Unit of Neurology and Psychiatry, Catholic University, Rome, Italy.
(2)Unit of Neurology and Psychiatry, Catholic University, Rome, Italy. 
Electronic address: fguzzetta@rm.unicatt.it.

A group of five DS patients whose first development was already reported were 
longitudinally followed up till the scholar age. Beside the general and 
epileptic clinical evolution, visual and cognitive functions were investigated 
in order to define their trajectory and possibly provide information about 
mechanisms of cognitive decline as well as to improve prognosis and tertiary 
prevention. Neuropsychological assessment was performed with a test battery 
investigating the development of visual function that progressively integrates 
into extrastriate components and higher cognitive skills (global form and motion 
coherence, stereopsis, crowding cards, ABCDEFV battery, general intelligence and 
specific cognitive tests). Main results showed a fall in visuo-motor items 
including global motion coherence and specific cognitive skills, presenting a 
continuity of the visual function deterioration extended from basic abilities to 
visuo-motor dorsal pathway skills. Moreover, a case whose previous visual and 
cognitive functions had been in the normal range began showing a visual 
deterioration with increasing age, followed by the cognitive decline; that 
prevents from excluding in early ages a poor development in presence of a normal 
visual function. A dorsal stream vulnerability seems thus shown in this sample 
of DS patients, like in other genetic syndromes (Williams, Prader Willi. 
fragile-X), providing new information about mechanisms underlying cognitive 
decline and suggesting a possible strategy to improve their neuropsychological 
outcome. Larger cohorts may confirm whether these findings are part of a 
specific pattern of DS neuropsychological phenotype.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eplepsyres.2014.10.009
PMID: 25524843 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1628. J Atten Disord. 2018 Aug;22(10):959-970. doi: 10.1177/1087054714563792. Epub 
2014 Dec 18.

Comparisons of Intelligence and Behavior in Children With Fetal Alcohol Spectrum 
Disorder and ADHD.

Raldiris TL(1), Bowers TG(1), Towsey C(1).

Author information:
(1)1 Penn State Harrisburg, Middletown, PA, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Children with fetal alcohol spectrum disorder (FASD) can easily be 
misdiagnosed as having ADHD.
METHOD: A total of 164 children were compared on cognitive and behavioral 
measures for four groups of children: FASD, ADHD, FASD + ADHD, and other 
neuropsychological disorders.
RESULTS: The ADHD group was not significantly different from the "other 
diagnosis" group on any of the measurements. The children with FASD were found 
to perform significantly worse than ADHD on externalizing problems, Full-Scale 
IQ, and indices of Verbal Comprehension, Perceptual Reasoning, and Working 
Memory. The comorbid FASD + ADHD group was significantly weaker than ADHD on 
verbal comprehension measures. The FASD children demonstrated significantly 
higher levels of atypicality and aggression relative to ADHD, and the FASD + 
ADHD group demonstrated significantly higher levels of hyperactivity and 
withdrawal relative to ADHD.
CONCLUSION: These results indicate that children with FASD display a 
differential behavioral and cognitive profile that is significantly poorer than 
children with ADHD and other types of neuropsychological disorders.

DOI: 10.1177/1087054714563792
PMID: 25525157 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1629. J Nutr. 2015 Jan;145(1):143-9. doi: 10.3945/jn.114.198457. Epub 2014 Nov 19.

Dietary fiber is positively associated with cognitive control among prepubertal 
children.

Khan NA(1), Raine LB(2), Drollette ES(2), Scudder MR(2), Kramer AF(3), Hillman 
CH(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Kinesiology and Community Health and nakhan2@illinois.edu.
(2)Department of Kinesiology and Community Health and.
(3)Beckman Institute for Advanced Science and Technology, University of 
Illinois, Urbana, IL.
(4)Department of Kinesiology and Community Health and Beckman Institute for 
Advanced Science and Technology, University of Illinois, Urbana, IL.

BACKGROUND: Converging evidence now indicates that aerobic fitness and adiposity 
are key correlates of childhood cognitive function and brain health. However, 
the evidence relating dietary intake to executive function/cognitive control 
remains limited.
OBJECTIVE: The current study assessed cross-sectional associations between 
performance on an attentional inhibition task and dietary fatty acids (FAs), 
fiber, and overall diet quality among children aged 7-9 y (n = 65).
METHODS: Attentional inhibition was assessed by using a modified flanker task. 
Three-day food records were used to conduct nutrient-level analyses and to 
calculate diet quality (Healthy Eating Index-2005) scores.
RESULTS: Bivariate correlations revealed that socioeconomic status and sex were 
not related to task performance or diet measures. However, age, intelligence 
quotient (IQ), pubertal staging, maximal oxygen uptake (V̇O2max), and percentage 
of fat mass (%fat mass) correlated with task accuracy. Hierarchical regression 
models were used to determine the relation between diet variables and task 
accuracy and reaction time across both congruent and incongruent trials of the 
flanker task. After adjustment of confounding variables (age, IQ, pubertal 
staging, V̇O2max, and %fat mass), congruent accuracy was positively associated 
with insoluble fiber (β = 0.26, P = 0.03) and total dietary fiber (β = 0.23, P = 
0.05). Incongruent response accuracy was positively associated with insoluble 
fiber (β = 0.35, P < 0.01), pectins (β = 0.25, P = 0.04), and total dietary 
fiber (β = 0.32, P < 0.01). Higher diet quality was related to lower accuracy 
interference (β = -0.26, P = 0.03), whereas higher total FA intake was related 
to greater accuracy interference (β = 0.24, P = 0.04). No statistically 
significant associations were observed between diet variables and reaction time 
measures.
CONCLUSION: These results demonstrate that children's diet quality, specifically 
dietary fiber, is an important correlate of performance on a cognitive task 
requiring variable amounts of cognitive control.

© 2015 American Society for Nutrition.

DOI: 10.3945/jn.114.198457
PMCID: PMC4264019
PMID: 25527669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Author disclosures: NA Khan, LB Raine, ES 
Drollette, MR Scudder, AF Kramer, and CH Hillman, no conflicts of interest.


1630. Forensic Sci Int Genet. 2015 May;16:48-51. doi: 10.1016/j.fsigen.2014.12.006. 
Epub 2014 Dec 11.

Concordance study between the ParaDNA® Intelligence Test, a rapid DNA profiling 
assay, and a conventional STR typing kit (AmpFlSTR® SGM Plus®).

Ball G(1), Dawnay N(2), Stafford-Allen B(2), Panasiuk M(2), Rendell P(2), 
Blackman S(2), Duxbury N(2), Wells S(2).

Author information:
(1)LGC, ParaDNA Business Unit, F4 Culham Science Centre, Abingdon, Oxfordshire, 
OX14 3ED, United Kingdom. Electronic address: paradna@lgcgroup.com.
(2)LGC, ParaDNA Business Unit, F4 Culham Science Centre, Abingdon, Oxfordshire, 
OX14 3ED, United Kingdom.

The ParaDNA® Intelligence Test enables STR profiling directly from human 
biological samples and evidence items collected from crime scene in 75min. 
Designed for non-expert use this system allows DNA information to be available 
to investigators before it would typically be available from a laboratory. The 
ParaDNA Intelligence Test system amplifies D3S1358, D8S119, D16S539, D18S1358 
and TH01 STR loci and the gender typing locus amelogenin and detects the alleles 
present with HyBeacon® probes. Individual DNA samples from 381 UK Caucasian 
individuals were analysed using AmpFlSTR® SGM Plus® and the ParaDNA Intelligence 
Test with the derived STR profiles compared. Here we describe the high level of 
concordance demonstrated between the two systems and discuss this with reference 
to allele frequencies and the discriminatory power offered by the ParaDNA 
Intelligence Test.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fsigen.2014.12.006
PMID: 25528026 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1631. J Appl Psychol. 2015 May;100(3):917-34. doi: 10.1037/a0038452. Epub 2014 Dec 22.

Regulating and facilitating: the role of emotional intelligence in maintaining 
and using positive affect for creativity.

Parke MR(1), Seo MG(1), Sherf EN(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Business, University of Maryland.

Although past research has identified the effects of emotional intelligence on 
numerous employee outcomes, the relationship between emotional intelligence and 
creativity has not been well established. We draw upon affective information 
processing theory to explain how two facets of emotional intelligence-emotion 
regulation and emotion facilitation-shape employee creativity. Specifically, we 
propose that emotion regulation ability enables employees to maintain higher 
positive affect (PA) when faced with unique knowledge processing requirements, 
while emotion facilitation ability enables employees to use their PA to enhance 
their creativity. We find support for our hypotheses using a multimethod 
(ability test, experience sampling, survey) and multisource (archival, 
self-reported, supervisor-reported) research design of early career managers 
across a wide range of jobs.

(c) 2015 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/a0038452
PMID: 25528247 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1632. Appl Neuropsychol Adult. 2015;22(1):54-60. doi: 10.1080/23279095.2013.838166. 
Epub 2014 Mar 19.

WAIS-IV Verbal Comprehension Index and Perceptual Reasoning Index performance is 
unaffected by cold-pressor pain induction.

Etherton J(1).

Author information:
(1)a Psychology , Texas State University , San Marcos , Texas.

Cognitive complaints are frequently reported by patients with chronic pain, but 
studies of the effects of pain on different forms of cognition have been 
inconsistent. In two studies, cold-pressor pain was induced in nonclinical 
undergraduate volunteers who, under normal conditions, took Verbal Comprehension 
Index (VCI) subtests (Study 1, n=57) or Perceptual Reasoning Index (PRI) 
subtests (Study 2, n=59) followed by a different VCI or PRI subtest taken during 
either cold-pressor pain induction or a nonpainful control condition. Pain was 
not associated with significant reduction in subtest scaled score performance. 
Results indicate that cold-pressor pain in nonclinical volunteers does not 
impair Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Fourth Edition (WAIS-IV) VCI or PRI 
performance and suggest that pain per se should not be expected to substantially 
influence these cognitive abilities. Viewed together with previous Processing 
Speed Index and Working Memory Index studies, no cognitive or intellectual 
functions measured by the WAIS-IV are affected by induced pain. Generalizability 
of these findings may be limited by the fact that patients with chronic pain may 
differ in their pain experience from nonclinical volunteers with induced pain.

DOI: 10.1080/23279095.2013.838166
PMID: 25529592 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1633. Cogn Neuropsychiatry. 2015;20(2):144-56. doi: 10.1080/13546805.2014.991780. Epub 
2014 Dec 20.

Dysbindin gene variability is associated with cognitive abnormalities in 
first-episode non-affective psychosis.

Varela-Gomez N(1), Mata I, Perez-Iglesias R, Rodriguez-Sanchez JM, Ayesa R, 
Fatjo-Vilas M, Crespo-Facorro B.

Author information:
(1)a Department of Psychiatry, School of Medicine, University Hospital Marques 
de Valdecilla, IFIMAV , University of Cantabria , Santander , Spain.

INTRODUCTION: Dystrobrevin-binding protein 1 gene (dysbindin or DTNBP1) has been 
associated with schizophrenia and cognitive performance. Its expression in areas 
implicated in cognition such as the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, as well as 
its role in dopaminergic and glutamatergic system, has been replicated by 
several studies. The main aim of this study was to examine the association 
between DTNBP1 variability and cognitive performance in a sample of 238 patients 
with a first episode of a non-affective psychosis.
METHODS: Patients, and a comparison sample of 47 healthy subjects, completed an 
extensive neuropsychological battery. Five single nucleotide polymorphisms 
(SNPs) within DTNBP1 (rs2619528, rs2619538, rs3213207, rs2619539 and rs760761) 
and three haplotypes (GACAC, GAGAC and GTGAC) were analysed.
RESULTS: In the group of patients, we found a significant association between 
two of the DTNBP1 SNPs and one of the haplotypes (rs2619539, rs3213207 and 
GACAC) and a measure of premorbid IQ [Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-3rd 
Edition (WAIS-III) Vocabulary subtest]. Moreover, one of these SNPs, rs2619539, 
was also associated with our measure of working memory (WAIS-III Backward digits 
subtest) and two haplotypes, GAGAC and GTGAC, with our measure of verbal memory 
(Rey Auditory Verbal Learning Test), of visual memory (Rey Complex Figure Test) 
in the case of GAGAC, and of speed of processing (WAIS-III Digit Symbol-coding) 
in the case of GTGAC.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings add further evidence suggesting an association between 
dysbindin gene variability and cognitive abnormalities in schizophrenia, 
providing preliminary evidence of this association since the time of illness 
onset among minimally medicated patients.

DOI: 10.1080/13546805.2014.991780
PMID: 25530342 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1634. Future Oncol. 2014 Dec;10(16):2603-14. doi: 10.2217/fon.14.186.

Patient-centered care in cancer treatment programs: the future of integrative 
oncology through psychoeducation.

Garchinski CM(1), DiBiase AM, Wong RK, Sagar SM.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Education, Brock University, St Catharines, Ontario, Canada.

The reciprocal relationship between the mind and body has been a neglected 
process for improving the psychosocial care of cancer patients. Emotions form an 
important link between the mind and body. They play a fundamental role in the 
cognitive functions of decision-making and symptom control. Recognizing this 
relationship is important for integrative oncology. We define psychoeducation as 
the teaching of self-evaluation and self-regulation of the mind-body process. A 
gap exists between research evidence and implementation into clinical practice. 
The patients' search for self-empowerment through the pursuit of complementary 
therapies may be a surrogate for inadequate psychoeducation. Integrative 
oncology programs should implement psychoeducation that helps patients to 
improve both emotional and cognitive intelligence, enabling them to better 
negotiate cancer treatment systems.

DOI: 10.2217/fon.14.186
PMID: 25531048 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1635. Pril (Makedon Akad Nauk Umet Odd Med Nauki). 2014;35(2):59-66. doi: 
10.2478/prilozi-2014-0008.

Emotional intelligence and big-five personality factors in female student 
sample.

Pop-Jordanova N(1), Stoimenova-Canevska E.

Author information:
(1)Macedonian Academy of Sciences and Arts, Skopje, R. Macedonia.

The aim of this study is to figure out possible connectedness between emotional 
intelligence and five big personality factors in female students selected from 
social sciences faculties. The evaluated sample comprised 66 healthy students, 
of Macedonian nationality, mean age 18.9 ± 0.63 years. As psychometric 
instruments, we used the EI-test and NEO-PI-R, both with eligible metric 
characteristic and already used in the Republic of Macedonia. Statistical 
analysis was performed using Sta17, both descriptive and inferential statistics 
including medians, standard deviations, and two-tailed Pearson's correlation. 
The obtained results for emotional intelligence showed an average anxiety level 
(M = 77.35), extraversion (M = 50.91) and a realistic outlook on life (M = 
81.64), high self-confidence (M = 44.44) and generally satisfactory empathy (M = 
85.39). Personality characteristics obtained with NEO-PI-R showed high 
extroversion (M = 123. 70), low agreeableness (M = 105.82) and consciousness (M 
= 104.67), as well as mild neuroticism (M = 91.33) and openness (M = 117.45). 
The results confirmed a high positive correlation between anxiety, optimism, and 
empathy; and between self-confidence and empathy within the EI test. Within 
NEO-PR-R there was a positive correlation between factors Extroversion and 
Openness to Experience and a negative correlation between the factors 
Extroversion and Agreeableness. However, just one negative correlation is noted, 
between Extroversion from EI and Openness to experience from NEO-PR-R (-0,25; p 
< 0.05). We concluded that similar facets measured with different psychometric 
instruments have different basic concepts. The obtained results, although they 
figure out some support from other research, also differ from other studies. It 
is important for us to follow the obtained results and to provoke further 
research on a bigger and more diverse sample.

DOI: 10.2478/prilozi-2014-0008
PMID: 25532085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1636. IEEE Trans Cybern. 2015 Feb;45(2):316-27. doi: 10.1109/TCYB.2014.2360680. Epub 
2014 Dec 18.

Intelligent deflection routing in buffer-less networks.

Haeri S, Trajković L.

Deflection routing is employed to ameliorate packet loss caused by contention in 
buffer-less architectures such as optical burst-switched networks. The main goal 
of deflection routing is to successfully deflect a packet based only on a 
limited knowledge that network nodes possess about their environment. In this 
paper, we present a framework that introduces intelligence to deflection routing 
(iDef). iDef decouples the design of the signaling infrastructure from the 
underlying learning algorithm. It consists of a signaling and a decision-making 
module. Signaling module implements a feedback management protocol while the 
decision-making module implements a reinforcement learning algorithm. We also 
propose several learning-based deflection routing protocols, implement them in 
iDef using the ns-3 network simulator, and compare their performance.

DOI: 10.1109/TCYB.2014.2360680
PMID: 25532199


1637. Chin Med J (Engl). 2014;127(24):4197-203.

Postural control and sensory information integration abilities of boys with two 
subtypes of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder: a case-control study.

Ren Y(1), Yu L(2), Yang L(1), Cheng J(1), Feng L(3), Wang Y(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Child Psychiatry Research, Peking University Sixth Hospital, 
Peking University Institute of Mental Health, Key Laboratory of Ministry of 
Health (Peking University), Beijing 100191, China.
(2)Institute of Aviation Medicine of Air Force, Beijing 100036, China.
(3)Depression Treatment Center, Beijing Anding Hospital, Beijing 100124, China.
(4)Department of Child Psychiatry Research, Peking University Sixth Hospital, 
Peking University Institute of Mental Health, Key Laboratory of Ministry of 
Health (Peking University), Beijing 100191, China. Email: wangyf@bjmu.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is one of the most 
commonly diagnosed psychiatric disorder in childhood. ADHD children with 
overlapping symptoms and signs of motor problems have more serious prognosis 
than that of children with ADHD only. However, the motor and sensory processing 
problems in children with ADHD have not been studied well. Few people adopt the 
technique of computerized dynamic posturography (CDP) in the study of ADHD, 
which is applied widely in clinical and laboratory research to objectively 
evaluate human's balance performance. This study aimed to assess the 
characteristics of postural control and sensory information processing of boys 
with two subtypes of ADHD by using CDP, so as to provide the proof for non-drug 
therapy of ADHD.
METHOD: From June 2003 to September 2004, a total of 73 boys (7-15 years of age) 
with ADHD and 73 normal developing boys matched by age and intelligence quotient 
from Peking University Institute of Mental Health were recruited in the study. 
The Sensory Organization Test was adopted to test the static balance performance 
under six sensory input conditions by SMART EquiTest 8.0 (NeuroCom) instrument. 
The sensory information from three sensory systems were available under 
condition 1, the visual inputs were removed or distorted under condition 2 or 3, 
the somatosensory inputs were in conflict with or without the visual inputs 
removed under condition 4 or 5, and both the visual and somatosensory inputs 
were in conflict under condition 6. The indexes of equilibrium score, 
somatosensory, vestibular, and visual ratios, and strategy scores were analyzed 
to indicate the subjects' postural control ability.
RESULTS: ADHD boys had significantly lower composite equilibrium score (CES) 
than the normal group (P < 0.05). Under condition 1 and conditions 3-6, the 
equilibrium scores (ES) of the ADHD group were significantly lower (all P < 
0.05) than those of the control. Significantly lower visual and vestibular 
ratios and strategy scores under conditions 4-6 were found in boys with ADHD 
compared with the control group (P < 0.05). Boys of ADHD-predominantly 
inattentive (ADHD-I) type had a significantly lower CES and ES under conditions 
4-6 than the controls (all P < 0.05) while the ESs of ADHD-combined type 
(ADHD-C) boys under each condition were similar with that of boys with ADHD-I 
and no significant difference was found between boys with ADHD-C and the control 
group (all P > 0.05). Compared with the control group, the ADHD-I boys showed 
significantly lower visual and vestibular ratios and strategy scores under 
conditions 4-6 whereas the ADHD-C boys showed a trend of lower visual ratio (all 
P < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: ADHD boys had a poorer static postural control ability and impaired 
function of processing visual and vestibular information compared with the 
normal control. Boys with ADHD-I showed particularly severe defect of static 
postural control and vestibular function integrating conflict information than 
normal boys. These deficits may be an important contributor to the clinical 
presentation of ADHD children and their cognitive deficits. Assessment and 
training of postural control function would be suggested during the diagnosis 
and treatment of ADHD children.

PMID: 25533821 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1638. Pers Soc Psychol Bull. 2015 Feb;41(2):295-307. doi: 10.1177/0146167214564969. 
Epub 2014 Dec 22.

A company I can trust? Organizational lay theories moderate stereotype threat 
for women.

Emerson KT(1), Murphy MC(2).

Author information:
(1)Indiana University, Bloomington, USA ktemerso@indiana.edu.
(2)Indiana University, Bloomington, USA.

Women remain under-represented in the leadership of corporate America. According 
to stereotype threat theory, this under-representation may persist because women 
are concerned about being stereotyped in business settings. Three studies 
investigated whether an entity (fixed), compared with an incremental 
(malleable), organizational lay theory is threatening for women evaluating a 
consulting company. Men and women viewed a company mission statement or website 
containing an entity or incremental theory. Results revealed that women--more so 
than men--trusted the entity company less than the incremental company. 
Furthermore, only women's mistrust of the entity company was driven by their 
expectations about being stereotyped by its management. Notably, when combined 
with high or low representations of female employees, only organizational lay 
theories predicted trust. Finally, people's--particularly women's--mistrust of 
the entity company led them to disengage more before interacting with a 
representative. Implications for women's experiences and outcomes in workplace 
settings are discussed.

© 2014 by the Society for Personality and Social Psychology, Inc.

DOI: 10.1177/0146167214564969
PMID: 25534242 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1639. Sci Rep. 2014 Dec 23;4:7600. doi: 10.1038/srep07600.

Social networks in primates: smart and tolerant species have more efficient 
networks.

Pasquaretta C(1), Levé M(2), Claidière N(3), van de Waal E(4), Whiten A(4), 
MacIntosh AJ(5), Pelé M(6), Bergstrom ML(7), Borgeaud C(8), Brosnan SF(9), 
Crofoot MC(10), Fedigan LM(7), Fichtel C(11), Hopper LM(12), Mareno MC(13), 
Petit O(14), Schnoell AV(15), di Sorrentino EP(16), Thierry B(1), Tiddi B(17), 
Sueur C(14).

Author information:
(1)1] Université de Strasbourg, Institut Pluridisciplinaire Hubert Curien, 
Strasbourg, France [2] Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique, Département 
Ecologie, Physiologie et Ethologie, Strasbourg, France.
(2)1] Université de Strasbourg, Institut Pluridisciplinaire Hubert Curien, 
Strasbourg, France [2] Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique, Département 
Ecologie, Physiologie et Ethologie, Strasbourg, France [3] Ecole Normale 
Supérieure, Paris, France.
(3)University of St Andrews, Centre for Social Learning and Cognitive Evolution, 
School of Psychology &Neuroscience, St Andrews, United Kingdom.
(4)1] University of St Andrews, Centre for Social Learning and Cognitive 
Evolution, School of Psychology &Neuroscience, St Andrews, United Kingdom [2] 
Inkawu Vervet Project, Mawana Game Reserve, Swart Mfolozi, KwaZulu Natal, South 
Africa.
(5)1] Kyoto University, Primate Research Institute, Center for International 
Collaboration and Advanced Studies in Primatology Kanrin 41-2, Inuyama, Aichi, 
Japan 484-8506 [2] Kyoto University Wildlife Research Center, 2-24 
Tanaka-Sekiden-cho, Sakyo, Kyoto, Japan 606-8203.
(6)Ethobiosciences, Research and Consultancy Agency in Animal Wellbeing and 
Behaviour, Strasbourg, France.
(7)Department of Anthropology, University of Calgary, Canada.
(8)1] Inkawu Vervet Project, Mawana Game Reserve, Swart Mfolozi, KwaZulu Natal, 
South Africa [2] University of Neuchâtel, Institute of Biology, Neuchâtel, 
Switzerland.
(9)Department of Psychology &Language Research Center, Georgia State University, 
Atlanta, GA, 30302, USA.
(10)1] Department of Anthropology, University of California, Davis, 1 Shields 
Ave., Davis, CA 95616, U.S.A. [2] Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, 
Ancon, Panama City, Panama.
(11)1] Behavioral Ecology and Sociobiology Unit, German Primate Center, 
Göttingen, Germany [2] Courant Research Centre "Evolution of Social Behaviour", 
University of Göttingen, Germany.
(12)1] Department of Psychology &Language Research Center, Georgia State 
University, Atlanta, GA, 30302, USA [2] Lester E. Fisher Center for the Study 
and Conservation of Apes, Lincoln Park Zoo, Chicago, IL, 60614, USA [3] Michale 
E. Keeling Center for Comparative Medicine and Research, UT MD Anderson Cancer 
Center, Bastrop, TX, 78602, USA.
(13)Michale E. Keeling Center for Comparative Medicine and Research, UT MD 
Anderson Cancer Center, Bastrop, TX, 78602, USA.
(14)1] Université de Strasbourg, Institut Pluridisciplinaire Hubert Curien, 
Strasbourg, France [2] Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique, Département 
Ecologie, Physiologie et Ethologie, Strasbourg, France [3] Unit of Social 
Ecology, CP231, Université libre de Bruxelles, Campus Plaine, Bd du triomphe, 
1050 Brussels, Belgium.
(15)Courant Research Centre "Evolution of Social Behaviour", University of 
Göttingen, Germany.
(16)Unit of Cognitive Primatology and Primate Center, ISTC-CNR, Rome, Italy.
(17)1] Cognitive Ethology Laboratory, German Primate Center, Goettingen, Germany 
[2] Courant Research Centre "Evolution of Social Behaviour", University of 
Göttingen, Germany.

Network optimality has been described in genes, proteins and human communicative 
networks. In the latter, optimality leads to the efficient transmission of 
information with a minimum number of connections. Whilst studies show that 
differences in centrality exist in animal networks with central individuals 
having higher fitness, network efficiency has never been studied in animal 
groups. Here we studied 78 groups of primates (24 species). We found that group 
size and neocortex ratio were correlated with network efficiency. Centralisation 
(whether several individuals are central in the group) and modularity (how a 
group is clustered) had opposing effects on network efficiency, showing that 
tolerant species have more efficient networks. Such network properties affecting 
individual fitness could be shaped by natural selection. Our results are in 
accordance with the social brain and cultural intelligence hypotheses, which 
suggest that the importance of network efficiency and information flow through 
social learning relates to cognitive abilities.

DOI: 10.1038/srep07600
PMCID: PMC4274513
PMID: 25534964 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1640. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2015 Jan 6;112(1):65-9. doi: 10.1073/pnas.1413570112. 
Epub 2014 Dec 22.

Sound credit scores and financial decisions despite cognitive aging.

Li Y(1), Gao J(2), Enkavi AZ(2), Zaval L(3), Weber EU(3), Johnson EJ(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Business Administration, University of California, Riverside, CA 
92521; ye.li@ucr.edu.
(2)Center for Decision Sciences, Graduate School of Business, Columbia 
University, New York, NY 10027; and.
(3)Center for Decision Sciences, Graduate School of Business, Columbia 
University, New York, NY 10027; and Department of Psychology, Columbia 
University, New York, NY 10027.

Age-related deterioration in cognitive ability may compromise the ability of 
older adults to make major financial decisions. We explore whether knowledge and 
expertise accumulated from past decisions can offset cognitive decline to 
maintain decision quality over the life span. Using a unique dataset that 
combines measures of cognitive ability (fluid intelligence) and of general and 
domain-specific knowledge (crystallized intelligence), credit report data, and 
other measures of decision quality, we show that domain-specific knowledge and 
expertise provide an alternative route for sound financial decisions. That is, 
cognitive aging does not spell doom for financial decision-making in domains 
where the decision maker has developed expertise. These results have important 
implications for public policy and for the design of effective interventions and 
decision aids.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1413570112
PMCID: PMC4291658
PMID: 25535381 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


1641. Plast Surg (Oakv). 2014 Winter;22(4):241-5. doi: 
10.4172/plastic-surgery.1000884.

Do plastic surgery division heads and program directors have the necessary tools 
to provide effective leadership?

Arneja J(1), McInnes C(2), Carr Nj(3), Lennox P(3), Hill M(3), Petersen R(4), 
Woodward K(5), Skarlicki D(6).

Author information:
(1)British Columbia Children's Hospital; ; Sauder School of Business, University 
of British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia;
(2)University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Manitoba;
(3)Vancouver General Hospital and University of British Columbia;
(4)British Columbia Children's Hospital;
(5)Vancouver Coastal Health, Vancouver, British Columbia.
(6)Sauder School of Business, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British 
Columbia;

BACKGROUND: Effective leadership is imperative in a changing health care 
landscape driven by increasing expectations in a setting of rising fiscal 
pressures. Because evidence suggests that leadership abilities are not simply 
innate but, rather, effective leadership can be learned, it is prudent for 
plastic surgeons to evaluate the training and challenges of their leaders 
because there may be opportunities for further growth and support.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the practice profiles, education/training, 
responsibilities and challenges of leaders within academic plastic surgery.
METHODS: Following research ethics board approval, an anonymous online survey 
was sent to division heads and program directors from all university-affiliated 
plastic surgery divisions in Canada. Survey themes included demographics, 
education/training, job responsibilities and challenges.
RESULTS: A response rate of 74% was achieved. The majority of respondents were 
male (94%), promoted to their current position at a mean age of 48 years, did 
not have a leadership-focused degree (88%), directly manage 30 people (14 staff, 
16 faculty) and were not provided with a job description (65%). Respondents 
worked an average of 65 h per week, of which 18% was devoted to their leadership 
role, 59% clinically and the remainder on teaching and research. A discrepancy 
existed between time spent on their leadership role (18%) and related 
compensation (10%). Time management (47%) and managing conflict (24%) were 
described as the greatest leadership challenges by respondents.
CONCLUSIONS: Several gaps were identified among leaders in plastic surgery 
including predominance of male sex, limitations in formal leadership training 
and requisite skill set, as well as compensation and human resources management 
(emotional intelligence). Leadership and managerial skills are key core 
competencies, not only for trainees, but certainly for those in a position of 
leadership. The present study provides evidence that academic departments, 
universities and medical centres may benefit by re-evaluating how they train, 
promote and support their leaders in plastic surgery.

Publisher: HISTORIQUE: Il est essentiel d’assumer un leadership efficace dans un 
paysage de la santé en mutation animé par des attentes toujours plus nombreuses, 
dans un contexte de pressions financières grandissantes. Selon les données 
probantes, les capacités de leadership ne sont pas innées, mais un leadership 
efficace peut être acquis. Ainsi, il est prudent pour les plasticiens d’évaluer 
la formation et les difficultés de leurs leaders, car ils profiteraient 
peut-être d’occasions de perfectionnement et de soutien.
OBJECTIF: Examiner les profils de pratique, la formation, les responsabilités et 
les difficultés des leaders dans le milieu de la chirurgie plastique 
universitaire.
MÉTHODOLOGIE: Après avoir été approuvé par un comité d’éthique de la recherche, 
un sondage virtuel anonyme a été expédié aux chefs et directeurs de programme de 
tous les services de chirurgie plastique associés à une université au Canada. Ce 
sondage portait sur la démographie, la formation, de même que les 
responsabilités et les difficultés liées à l’emploi.
RÉSULTATS: Le sondage a suscité un taux de réponse de 74 %. La majorité des 
répondants étaient des hommes (94 %) promus dans leur fonction à un âge moyen de 
48 ans, qui n’avaient pas de diplôme lié au leadership (88 %), géraient 
directement 30 personnes (14 membres du personnel, 16 professeurs) et n’avaient 
pas de description de tâches (65 %). Les répondants travaillaient en moyenne 65 
heures par semaine, dont 18 % étaient consacrées à leur rôle de leadership, 59 % 
aux tâches cliniques et le reste à l’enseignement et à la recherche. Ils 
remarquaient un écart entre le temps consacré à leur rôle de leadership (18 %) 
et la rémunération s’y rapportant (10 %). Ils décrivaient la gestion du temps 
(47 %) et des conflits (24 %) comme leurs plus grosses difficultés de 
leadership.
CONCLUSIONS: Les chercheurs ont constaté plusieurs lacunes chez les leaders en 
chirurgie plastique, y compris la prédominance du sexe masculin, les limites de 
la formation officielle et des compétences en leadership, la rémunération et la 
gestion des ressources humaines (intelligence émotionnelle). Le leadership et 
les connaissances en gestion sont des compétences de base essentielles, non 
seulement pour les stagiaires, mais aussi pour les personnes en position 
d’autorité. La présente étude démontre qu’il serait bénéfique aux services 
universitaires, aux universités et aux centres médicaux de réévaluer leur mode 
de formation, de promotion et de soutien des leaders en chirurgie plastique.

DOI: 10.4172/plastic-surgery.1000884
PMCID: PMC4271752
PMID: 25535461


1642. Indian J Med Paediatr Oncol. 2014 Oct;35(4):281-7. doi: 
10.4103/0971-5851.144990.

Immediate treatment effects of high-dose methotrexate and cranial irradiation on 
neuropsychological functions of children treated for acute lymphoblastic 
leukemia at a regional cancer center.

Chidambaram S(1), Seshachalam A(2), Elangovan V(1), Rajendranath R(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psycho-Oncology, Cancer Institute (WIA), Chennai, India.
(2)GVN Cancer Hospital, Trichy, Tamil Nadu, India.
(3)Department of Medical Oncology, Cancer Institute (WIA), Chennai, India.

CONTEXT: Overall cure rates for pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) 
have improved; however, the neuropsychological sequelae of ALL treatment have 
not been adequately documented in India.
AIMS: The present study assesses the immediate effects of ALL treatment on 
neuropsychological functioning, at the Regional Cancer Center in Chennai, South 
India.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Newly diagnosed with ALL patients (n = 24) (aged 6-15 
years; 13M:11F) registered between March 2008 and February 2009 were included. 
Patients who had received high-dose methotrexate (HD-MTX) and cranial 
radiotherapy (CRT) as part of their treatment were enrolled for the study. 
Neurocognitive assessments were done to assess various functions such as 
performance intelligence, visuo-perception, visuo-spatial, perceptual 
organization, processing speed, planning, working memory, and immediate verbal 
memory (IVM) (Malin's intelligence scale); verbal fluency (ideation fluency 
test) and verbal attention (vigilance test). Three assessments were done during 
induction (baseline), after re-induction phase (second) and during the 
maintenance phase (third).
RESULTS: The patients performed significantly worse in the third assessment 
(mean duration from diagnosis 17.48 months) on performance intelligence quotient 
(PIQ), visuo-perception, visuo-spatial, processing speed, planning, IVM, verbal 
attention, and verbal fluency (P < 0.05), there were no significant changes 
observed in visuo-perceptual organization and working memory (P > 0.05). 
Significant difference was observed between age groups 6 and 10 (41.7%) and 
11-15 years (58.3%) in perceptual organization, verbal fluency, and verbal 
attention (P < 0.05) and no gender difference was observed across the three 
assessments (P > 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Combining HD MTX and CRT had an immediate effect on 
neuropsychological sequelae among the children with ALL, however, long-term 
evaluation is recommended to study the long-term effects.

DOI: 10.4103/0971-5851.144990
PMCID: PMC4264275
PMID: 25538406

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None declared.


1643. Front Behav Neurosci. 2014 Dec 4;8:417. doi: 10.3389/fnbeh.2014.00417. 
eCollection 2014.

Relationships between brain-derived neurotrophic factor, clinical symptoms, and 
decision-making in chronic schizophrenia: data from the Iowa Gambling Task.

Hori H(1), Yoshimura R(1), Katsuki A(1), Atake K(1), Nakamura J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Occupational and Environmental Health 
Kitakyushu, Japan.

The levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) are significantly 
decreased in patients with schizophrenia and correlate with impairments in 
cognitive function. However, no study has investigated the relationship between 
the serum BDNF levels and decision-making. We compared patients with 
schizophrenia to healthy controls with respect to their decision-making ability 
and serum BDNF levels. Eighty-six chronic schizophrenia patients and 51 healthy 
controls participated in this study. We controlled for gender, age, and 
estimated intelligence quotient (IQ), and we investigated the differences in 
decision-making performance on the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT) between the 
schizophrenia patient and control groups. We also compared the IGT scores, the 
serum BDNF levels, and the clinical symptoms between the groups. The IGT scores 
of the schizophrenia patients were lower than those of the controls. A negative 
correlation was detected between the mean net scores on the trials in the final 
two blocks and the serum BDNF levels (p < 0.05). Multiple regression analysis 
revealed that depressive symptoms and the serum BDNF levels were significantly 
associated with the mean net scores on the trials in the final two blocks. Based 
on these results, impaired sensitivity to both reward and punishment is 
associated with depressive symptoms and reduced serum BDNF levels in chronic 
schizophrenia patients and may be related to their poor performance on the IGT.

DOI: 10.3389/fnbeh.2014.00417
PMCID: PMC4255599
PMID: 25538582


1644. Psychol Rep. 2014 Dec;115(3):840-1. doi: 10.2466/04.PR0.115c32z4.

A study of intelligence in Oman.

Bakhiet SF(1), Lynn R.

Author information:
(1)1 King Saud University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.

There have been two studies of the Coloured Progressive Matrices and the 
Standard Progressive Matrices in Oman, giving British IQs of 87 and 81, 
respectively. The present paper reports results for the Advanced Progressive 
Matrices to ascertain how far these are consistent with the previous studies. 
The Advanced Progressive Matrices was standardized in Oman in 2009-10 on a 
sample of 2,467 Grade 11 and 12 students (M age = 17.13 yr., SD = 1.01, range = 
16-18). The sample obtained a mean score of 12.2, equivalent to a British IQ of 
88, consistent with the results of the two previous studies.

DOI: 10.2466/04.PR0.115c32z4
PMID: 25539169 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1645. Psychol Rep. 2014 Dec;115(3):784-93. doi: 10.2466/03.PR0.115c32z7.

Short form of Spanish version of the WISC-IV for intelligence assessment in 
elementary school children.

Dasi C(1), Soler MJ, Bellver V, Ruiz JC.

Author information:
(1)1 Faculty of Psychology of the University of Valencia (Spain).

In educational settings, quick assessments of intelligence are often required to 
screen children with potential special needs. The WISC-IV is administered 
individually and takes between one and two hours to complete. Given its 
widespread use in Spain, a short-form of the Spanish version is likely to be of 
use to professionals. The goal of this research was to develop a short form of 
the WISC-IV that can be performed in approximately half an hour. Data obtained 
in 100 elementary school children were analyzed following the criteria of 
Resnick and Entin (1971) . The results showed that the most accurate estimation 
of intelligence was achieved with a combination of the Vocabulary, Block Design, 
Letter-Number Sequencing, and Coding subtests.

DOI: 10.2466/03.PR0.115c32z7
PMID: 25539178 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1646. Int J Bipolar Disord. 2014 Dec 24;2:1. doi: 10.1186/s40345-014-0016-7. 
eCollection 2014.

Prophylactic lithium treatment and cognitive performance in patients with a long 
history of bipolar illness: no simple answers in complex disease-treatment 
interplay.

Pfennig A(1), Alda M(2), Young T(3), MacQueen G(4), Rybakowski J(5), Suwalska 
A(5), Simhandl C(6), König B(6), Hajek T(2), O'Donovan C(2), Wittekind D(7), von 
Quillfeldt S(8), Ploch J(7), Sauer C(7), Bauer M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, Carl Gustav Carus University 
Hospital, Technische Universität Dresden, Fetscherstrasse 74, 01307 Dresden, 
Germany ; International Group for the Study of Lithium-Treated Patients (IGSLi), 
Berlin, Germany.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Dalhousie University, Halifax, Canada ; 
International Group for the Study of Lithium-Treated Patients (IGSLi), Berlin, 
Germany.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, University of British Columbia Faculty of Medicine, 
Vancouver, Canada ; International Group for the Study of Lithium-Treated 
Patients (IGSLi), Berlin, Germany.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, Faculty of Medicine, University of Calgary, 
Calgary, Canada ; International Group for the Study of Lithium-Treated Patients 
(IGSLi), Berlin, Germany.
(5)Department of Adult Psychiatry, Poznan University of Medical Sciences, 
Poznan, Poland ; International Group for the Study of Lithium-Treated Patients 
(IGSLi), Berlin, Germany.
(6)Department of Psychiatry, Hospital Neunkirchen, CS now: Bipolar Centre, 
Vienna, Austria ; International Group for the Study of Lithium-Treated Patients 
(IGSLi), Berlin, Germany.
(7)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, Carl Gustav Carus University 
Hospital, Technische Universität Dresden, Fetscherstrasse 74, 01307 Dresden, 
Germany.
(8)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, Charité Berlin, Campus Mitte, 
Berlin, Germany.

Cognitive impairment in patients with bipolar disorder (BD) is not restricted to 
symptomatic phases. It is also present in euthymia. There is evidence of 
differences in the brain's structure between bipolar patients and healthy 
individuals, as well as changes over time in patients. Lithium constitutes the 
gold standard in long-term prophylactic treatment. Appropriate therapy that 
prevents new episodes improves the disease's course and reduces the frequency of 
harmful outcomes. Interestingly, preclinical data suggest that lithium has a 
(additional) neuroprotective effect. There is limited data on its related 
effects in humans and even less on its long-term application. In this 
multi-center cross-sectional study from the International Group for the Study of 
Lithium-treated Patients (IGSLi), we compared three groups: bipolar patients 
without long-term lithium treatment (non-Li group; <3 months cumulative lithium 
exposure, ≥24 months ago), bipolar patients with long-term lithium treatment (Li 
group, ongoing treatment ≥24 months), and healthy subjects (controls). Strict 
inclusion and exclusion criteria were defined; the inclusion criteria for 
patients were diagnosis of BD types I or II, duration of illness ≥10 years, ≥5 
episodes in patient's history and a euthymic mood state. Neurocognitive 
functioning was assessed using the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Revised 
(WAIS-R), the California Verbal Learning Test (CVLT), and a visual backward 
masking (VBM) task. A total of 142 subjects were included, 31 in the non-Li and 
58 in the Li group, as well as 53 healthy controls. Treated patients with 
long-standing BD and controls did not differ significantly in overall cognitive 
functioning and verbal learning, recall, and recognition; regardless of whether 
lithium had been part of the treatment. Patients, however, demonstrated poorer 
early visual information processing than healthy controls, with the 
lithium-treated patients performing worse than those without. Our data suggest 
that bipolar patients with a long illness history and effective prophylactic 
treatment do not reveal significantly impaired general cognitive functioning or 
verbal learning and memory. However, they are worse at processing early visual 
information. Accompanying volumetric and spectroscopic data suggest cell loss in 
patients not treated with lithium that may be counterbalanced by long-term 
lithium treatment.

DOI: 10.1186/s40345-014-0016-7
PMCID: PMC4275548
PMID: 25540718


1647. Mol Genet Metab. 2015 Feb;114(2):170-7. doi: 10.1016/j.ymgme.2014.12.299. Epub 
2014 Dec 9.

Cognitive, medical, and neuroimaging characteristics of attenuated 
mucopolysaccharidosis type II.

Yund B(1), Rudser K(2), Ahmed A(1), Kovac V(1), Nestrasil I(1), Raiman J(3), 
Mamak E(4), Harmatz P(5), Steiner R(6), Lau H(7), Vekaria P(8), Wozniak JR(9), 
Lim KO(9), Delaney K(1), Whitley C(1), Shapiro EG(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN, USA.
(2)Division of Biostatistics, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN, USA.
(3)Hospital for Sick Children, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(4)Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(5)UCSF Benioff Children's Hospital Oakland, Oakland, CA, USA.
(6)Department of Pediatrics, Oregon Health and Science University, Portland, OR, 
USA.
(7)Department of Neurology, New York University, New York, NY, USA.
(8)Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, New York University, New York, 
NY, USA.
(9)Department of Psychiatry, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN, USA.
(10)Department of Pediatrics, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN, USA. 
Electronic address: shapi004@umn.edu.

The phenotype of attenuated mucopolysaccharidosis type II (MPS II), also called 
Hunter syndrome, has not been previously studied in systematic manner. In 
contrast to the "severe" phenotype, the "attenuated" phenotype does not present 
with behavioral or cognitive impairment; however, the presence of mild behavior 
and cognitive impairment that might impact long-term functional outcomes is 
unknown. Previously, significant MRI abnormalities have been found in MPS II. 
Recent evidence suggests white matter abnormalities in many MPS disorders.
METHODS: As the initial cross-sectional analysis of a longitudinal study, we 
studied the association of brain volumes and somatic disease burden with 
neuropsychological outcomes, including measures of intelligence, memory, and 
attention in 20 patients with attenuated MPS II with a mean age of 15.8. MRI 
volumes were compared to 55 normal controls.
RESULTS: While IQ and memory were average, measures of attention were one 
standard deviation below the average range. Corpus callosum volumes were 
significantly different from age-matched controls, differing by 22%. Normal 
age-related volume increases in white matter were not seen in MPS II patients as 
they were in controls. Somatic disease burden and white matter and corpus 
callosum volumes were significantly associated with attention deficits. Neither 
age at evaluation nor age at starting treatment predicted attention outcomes.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite average intelligence, attention is compromised in 
attenuated MPS II. Results confirm an important role of corpus callosum and 
cortical white matter abnormality in MPS II as well as the somatic disease 
burden in contributing to attention difficulties. Awareness by the patient and 
caregivers with appropriate management and symptomatic support will benefit the 
attenuated MPS II patient.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymgme.2014.12.299
PMCID: PMC4312717
PMID: 25541100 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1648. Int J Speech Lang Pathol. 2015 Apr;17(2):159-71. doi: 
10.3109/17549507.2014.977348. Epub 2014 Dec 26.

The Autism Diagnostic Observation Schedule and narrative assessment: Evidence 
for specific narrative impairments in autism spectrum disorders.

Banney RM(1), Harper-Hill K, Arnott WL.

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Rehabilitation Sciences, The University of Queensland , 
St Lucia, Queensland , Australia.

PURPOSE: The Autism Diagnostic Observation Schedule (ADOS) contains a narrative 
generation task in which clients tell a story from a wordless picture book; 
however, the resulting narrative is not usually examined for its linguistic 
properties. This study aimed to examine narrative generation in autism spectrum 
disorder (ASD) by comparing narratives elicited from children with ASD during 
the ADOS to those produced by language-matched typically-developing (TD) peers.
METHOD: Participants were children with ASD (n = 11) and TD controls (n = 17). 
Both groups were aged 9-15 years and were matched for expressive and receptive 
language skills and non-verbal intelligence. Narratives were analysed for local 
structure elements (length, fluency, errors, semantics and syntax), cohesion and 
global elements (story grammar and internal state language).
RESULT: Results indicated that the narratives of the children with ASD were 
syntactically less complex, contained more ambiguous pronouns and included fewer 
story grammar elements than their control counterparts; with further analysis 
showing differences between younger and older children.
CONCLUSION: The present findings provide evidence that children with ASD exhibit 
subtle story generation impairments and provide preliminary support for the 
inclusion of narratives elicited as part of the ADOS in the assessment of 
specific language skills in this population.

DOI: 10.3109/17549507.2014.977348
PMID: 25541740 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1649. Alcohol Alcohol. 2015 Mar;50(2):173-9. doi: 10.1093/alcalc/agu099. Epub 2014 Dec 
27.

Relationship between emotional processing, drinking severity and relapse in 
adults treated for alcohol dependence in Poland.

Kopera M(1), Jakubczyk A(2), Suszek H(3), Glass JM(4), Klimkiewicz A(1), 
Wnorowska A(1), Brower KJ(4), Wojnar M(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Medical University of Warsaw, 27 Nowowiejska St, 
Warsaw, Poland.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Medical University of Warsaw, 27 Nowowiejska St, 
Warsaw, Poland ajakubczyk@wum.edu.pl.
(3)Faculty of Psychology, University of Warsaw, Warsaw, Poland.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, Addiction Research Center, University of Michigan, 
Ann Arbor MI, USA.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, Medical University of Warsaw, 27 Nowowiejska St, 
Warsaw, Poland Department of Psychiatry, Addiction Research Center, University 
of Michigan, Ann Arbor MI, USA.

Erratum in
    Alcohol Alcohol. 2017 May 1;52(3):311.

AIMS: Growing data reveals deficits in perception, understanding and regulation 
of emotions in alcohol dependence (AD). The study objective was to explore the 
relationships between emotional processing, drinking history and relapse in a 
clinical sample of alcohol-dependent patients.
METHODS: A group of 80 inpatients entering an alcohol treatment program in 
Warsaw, Poland was recruited and assessed at baseline and follow-up after 12 
months. Baseline information about demographics, psychopathological symptoms, 
personality and severity of alcohol problems was obtained. The Schutte 
Self-Report Emotional Intelligence (EI) Test and Toronto Alexithymia Scale (TAS) 
were utilized for emotional processing assessment. Follow-up information 
contained data on drinking alcohol during the last month.
RESULTS: At baseline assessment, the duration of alcohol drinking was associated 
with lower ability to utilize emotions. Patients reporting more difficulties 
with describing feelings drank more during their last episode of heavy drinking, 
and had a longer duration of intensive alcohol use. A longer duration of the 
last episode of heavy drinking was associated with more problems identifying and 
regulating emotions. Poor utilization of emotions and high severity of 
depressive symptoms contributed to higher rates of drinking at follow-up.
CONCLUSIONS: These results underline the importance of systematic identification 
of discrete emotional problems and dynamics related to AD. This knowledge has 
implications for treatment. Psychotherapeutic interventions to improve emotional 
skills could be utilized in treatment of alcohol-dependent patients.

© The Author 2014. Medical Council on Alcohol and Oxford University Press. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1093/alcalc/agu099
PMCID: PMC4327344
PMID: 25543129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1650. Pediatr Blood Cancer. 2015 May;62(5):854-8. doi: 10.1002/pbc.25362. Epub 2014 
Dec 24.

Neuropsychological late effects of treatment for acute leukemia in children with 
Down syndrome.

Roncadin C(1), Hitzler J, Downie A, Montour-Proulx I, Alyman C, Cairney E, 
Spiegler BJ.

Author information:
(1)The Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Children with Down syndrome (DS) have an elevated risk of developing 
acute leukemia, but little is known about treatment-related neuropsychological 
morbidity because they are systematically excluded from research in this area. 
The current study investigated neuropsychological outcomes in children with DS 
treated for acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) or acute myeloid leukemia (AML) 
compared to children with DS with no history of cancer.
PROCEDURE: Participants were 4 to 17 years of age at testing and were 
administered measures of intelligence, academic achievement, language, 
visual-motor and fine-motor skills, and adaptive function. Patients had been off 
treatment for at least 2 years.
RESULTS: The AML group (N = 12) had significantly lower verbal intelligence and 
receptive vocabulary compared to controls (N = 21). By contrast, the ALL group 
(N = 14) performed significantly worse than controls on measures of verbal 
intelligence, spelling, receptive and expressive vocabulary, visual-motor 
skills, and adaptive function.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with DS treated for AML may have specific post-treatment 
morbidity in verbal function, whereas those treated for ALL have broader 
morbidity affecting multiple neuropsychological domains and overall adaptive 
function. We hypothesize that the broader impairment profile of ALL survivors 
may be related to a combination of the longer duration of central nervous 
system-directed treatment for ALL compared to AML and the concomitant limited 
access to intervention opportunities during active treatment.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/pbc.25362
PMID: 25545182 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1651. Arch Pediatr. 2015 Feb;22(2):171-80. doi: 10.1016/j.arcped.2014.10.027. Epub 
2014 Dec 26.

[Monitoring network for vulnerable children in the Pays de la Loire ("Grandir 
ensemble" - Cohort LIFT): 10 years of activity 2003-2013].

[Article in French]

Branger B(1), Rouger V(2), Berlie I(3), Beucher A(4), Flamant C(5), N'guyen The 
Tich S(4), Garcia J(6), Brossier JP(7), Montcho Y(8), Hanf M(9), Roze JC(5); 160 
médecins référents du réseau.

Collaborators: Abilchamat J, Audrain Y, Azar Z, Baguenier Désormeaux H, Bailly 
C, Baraton L, Barthelemy A, Bellouin AS, Beringue F, Berteaud Zbotil B, Perrier 
J, Bertrand S, Biette Effray S, Blanchais T, Blauwblomme M, Boscher C, Boucherit 
C, Bouderlique C, Boulengier S, Bourge-Piquet M, Boutet A, Bressollette R, 
Brisset I, Bunker I, Cadot Boutteloup C, Caillaux G, Camus N, Caloyanni L, 
Carreau E, Carrez G, Carriou Cottereau A, Cesaro H, Chaabane A, Charrié MT, 
Frondas Chauty A, Chedane C, Cheignon J, Cipierre C, Cloitre E, Cochois B, Colin 
D, Colomb Polo N, Courtin V, de Cornulier M, de St Loup A, Darnis N, Elisabeth 
E, Delmas C, Denizot S, Denoual H, D'Harambure S, Dima B, Durigneux J, Dutartre 
T, Evain Guimard K, Fauveau Robine G, Fisenne MC, Florentin E, Fouche S, 
Foussier G, Freour I, Gachet JL, Garcia J, Gascoin G, Gasmi H, Gasnier JL, 
Gasser A, Gaubicher S, Gilmert G, Godon N, Göttle C, Gouray-Garcia M, Grimal I, 
Guépin JY, Guihard G, Guiheneuf C, Guiller-Sitbon J, Guillet S, Guilley N, 
Guillier M, Guillon C, Guittet J, Guitton B, Habay C, Hardy A, Helffer L, Henri 
Babinet G, Herbouiller MC, Herpin de Backer C, Hostein C, Houdebine E, Houdayer 
Crossay C, Ivorra Weyd I, Jaouen C, Jouanny AC, Jousse MO, Kellou E, Korber F, 
Lagoun N, Lagrue J, Lardière D, Lavigne E, Leboucher B, Lebrun S, Le Bouedec S, 
Le Corroller R, Le Faucheux F, Leblanc M, Lecarpentier M, Ledru S, Lefaix C, 
Lehebel D, Lelièvre Pacary R, Lenoir M, Ligny C, Loko F, Maillard C, Maingueneau 
C, Mainguy B, Malgorn G, Mandin F, Masson Bellanger C, Mawas C, Maxaud A, M'Bula 
P, Meyer L, Messaouden MC, Migraine A, Mongo A, Montcho Y, Mourad AR, Muet A, 
Mukwamu J, Murat G, Navel M, Oiry P, Ollivier M, Pantin C, Papin M, Parlier G, 
Parquet AM, Perraut D, Piet S, Pihour F, Pineau P, Picquenot G, Pocholle F, 
Poidevin D, Poignant S, Poitevin M, Poitou V, Porcheret H, Pouplin C, Pozzo di 
Borgo E, Py I, Querret M, Quézéde J, Rabiller B, Raguideau N, Rakotomalala HZ, 
Rigal E, Rivron M, Robine A, Rosas C, Rouleau S, Sable A, Savagner C, Schmit C, 
Segura Martin N, Seres M, Sorea Boul S, Tendron F, Tessiot C, Thomas MC, Tohier 
C, Trifard V, Tutin C, Verdier C, Verdon E, Veron F, Viot Huchet C, Vulser F.

Author information:
(1)« Sécurité naissance-naître ensemble » des Pays de la Loire, 2, rue de la 
Loire, 1, allée Baco, 44200 Nantes, France. Electronic address: 
bernard.branger@naitre-ensemble-ploire.org.
(2)« Grandir ensemble », CHU, 44093 Nantes, France.
(3)CAMSP, CHU, 49333 Angers, France.
(4)49000 Angers, France.
(5)CHU, 44093 Nantes, France.
(6)Maternité, centre hospitalier, 44600 Saint-Nazaire, France.
(7)Réseau « Sécurité naissance-naître ensemble » des Pays de la Loire, 
néonatologie, centre hospitalier, 85925 La Roche-sur-Yon, France.
(8)Centre hospitalier, 72000 Le Mans, France.
(9)Centre d'investigation clinique - épidémiologie clinique, CHU de Nantes, 
Nantes, France.

INTRODUCTION: Vulnerable children are at-risk newborns including premature 
infants and some children with pathologies presented by fear anomalies and 
deficiencies, most particularly neurological. Monitoring is based on the 
detection of these abnormalities and their early management. The organization of 
this monitoring system is based on a network of doctors, mostly pediatricians, 
trained regularly. The objective of this review was to assess the resources, 
means, and results of 10 years of follow-up.
METHODS: The Pays de la Loire network includes 24 maternity wards and 13 
neonatal departments. Annual admissions are around 5000 newborns to 
approximately 45,000 annual births. Upon discharge of newborns, born prematurely 
at 34 weeks of gestation (WG) or less, or term infants with neurological 
problems, parents are asked to have their child monitored by a referring doctor. 
During the consultation, a reference document is filled out by the doctor and 
sent to the project manager for data collection and specific compensation for 
private practitioners. Standardized questionnaires were used such as the ASQ 
(Ages and Stage Questionnaire) completed by parents, the developmental quotient 
(DQ) with the Lézine Brunet-Revised test (BLR), the intelligence quotient (IQ) 
with the Wechsler Preschool and Primary Scale of Intelligence (WIPPSI III) 
completed by psychologists employed in the network, and a questionnaire 
completed by the teacher at 5 years of age.
RESULTS: The network started on 1st March 2003, and 28th February 2013, after 10 
years of inclusion, 10,800 children had been included. This population accounts 
for 2.4% of all annual births: 1.1% were included for prematurity less than 33 
weeks and 0.25% were term-born infants. The characteristics of children are 
presented with gestational age, birth weight, and obstetric and neonatal 
pathologies. The percentage of these children followed was 80% at 2 years and 
63% at 5 years. At 2 years, the results are presented according to gestational 
age with approximately 60% of children without disabilities at 25-26 WG, 73% at 
27-28 WG, 77% at 29-30 WG, and 86% at 31-32 WG. Absorptions are diverse and vary 
according to the age of the child with physical therapy, psychomotor skill work, 
speech therapy, hearing and vision consultations, and psychology/psychiatry. 
Assessment tools were refined by specific analyses: the ASQ 24 months (completed 
by parents) was deemed valid and predictive with respect to IQ (abandoned in 
2012), and the grid completed by the teacher was found to predict abnormalities 
in 5 years.
CONCLUSION: The Pays de la Loire monitoring network has met its initial 
objective, namely to detect disabilities early and provide practical help to 
parents in a population of vulnerable children. Benefits for professionals and 
other children not followed in the network were observed, with an increase in 
pediatricians' skills. The benefits of the evaluation results are more difficult 
to assess with the care than neonatal care in obstetrics. The sustainability of 
such a network seems assured for healthcare professionals, provided that funding 
is maintained by the health authorities.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arcped.2014.10.027
PMID: 25547193 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1652. Artif Intell Med. 2015 Jan;63(1):1-6. doi: 10.1016/j.artmed.2014.11.001. Epub 
2014 Dec 17.

Self-focusing therapeutic gene delivery with intelligent gene vector swarms: 
intra-swarm signalling through receptor transgene expression in targeted cells.

Tolmachov OE(1).

Author information:
(1)Section of Molecular Medicine, National Heart and Lung Institute, Imperial 
College London, London, United Kingdom. Electronic address: 
oleg.tolmachov@imperial.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: Gene delivery in vivo that is tightly focused on the intended target 
cells is essential to maximize the benefits of gene therapy and to reduce 
unwanted side-effects. Cell surface markers are immediately available for 
probing by therapeutic gene vectors and are often used to direct gene transfer 
with these vectors to specific target cell populations. However, it is not 
unusual for the choice of available extra-cellular markers to be too scarce to 
provide a reliable definition of the desired therapeutically relevant set of 
target cells. Therefore, interrogation of intra-cellular determinants of 
cell-specificity, such as tissue-specific transcription factors, can be vital in 
order to provide detailed cell-guiding information to gene vector particles. An 
important improvement in cell-specific gene delivery can be achieved through 
auto-buildup in vector homing efficiency using intelligent 'self-focusing' of 
swarms of vector particles on target cells. Vector self-focusing was previously 
suggested to rely on the release of diffusible chemo-attractants after a 
successful target-specific hit by 'scout' vector particles.
HYPOTHESIS: I hypothesize that intelligent self-focusing behaviour of swarms of 
cell-targeted therapeutic gene vectors can be accomplished without the 
employment of difficult-to-use diffusible chemo-attractants, instead relying on 
the intra-swarm signalling through cells expressing a non-diffusible 
extra-cellular receptor for the gene vectors. In the proposed model, 
cell-guiding information is gathered by the 'scout' gene vector particles, 
which: (1) attach to a variety of cells via a weakly binding (low affinity) 
receptor; (2) successfully facilitate gene transfer into these cells; (3) query 
intra-cellular determinants of cell-specificity with their transgene expression 
control elements and (4) direct the cell-specific biosynthesis of a 
vector-encoded strongly binding (high affinity) cell-surface receptor. Free 
members of the vector swarm loaded with therapeutic cargo are then attracted to 
and internalized into the intended target cells via the expressed cognate 
strongly binding extra-cellular receptor, causing escalation of gene transfer 
into these cells and increasing the copy number of the therapeutic gene 
expression modules. Such self-focusing swarms of gene vectors can be either 
homogeneous, with 'scout' and 'therapeutic' members of the swarm being 
structurally identical, or, alternatively, heterogeneous (split), with 'scout' 
and 'therapeutic' members of the swarm being structurally specialized.
CONCLUSIONS: It is hoped that the proposed self-focusing cell-targeted gene 
vector swarms with receptor-mediated intra-swarm signalling could be 
particularly effective in 'top-up' gene delivery scenarios, achieving high-level 
and sustained expression of therapeutic transgenes that are prone to shut-down 
through degradation and silencing. Crucially, in contrast to low-precision 
'general location' vector guidance by diffusible chemo-attractants, ear-marking 
non-diffusible receptors can provide high-accuracy targeting of therapeutic 
vector particles to the specific cell, which has undergone a 'successful 
cell-specific hit' by a 'scout' vector particle. Opportunities for cell 
targeting could be expanded, since in the proposed model of self-focusing it 
could be possible to probe a broad selection of intra-cellular determinants of 
cell-specificity and not just to rely exclusively on extra-cellular markers of 
cell-specificity. By employing such self-focusing gene vectors for the 
improvement of cell-targeted delivery of therapeutic genes, e.g., in cancer 
therapy or gene addition therapy of recessive genetic diseases, it could be 
possible to broaden a leeway for the reduction of the vector load and, 
consequently, to minimize undesired vector cytotoxicity, immune reactions, and 
the risk of inadvertent genetic modification of germline cells in genetic 
treatment in vivo.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.artmed.2014.11.001
PMID: 25547266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1653. Int J Telemed Appl. 2014;2014:592342. doi: 10.1155/2014/592342. Epub 2014 Dec 3.

Scheduling in Sensor Grid Middleware for Telemedicine Using ABC Algorithm.

Vigneswari T(1), Mohamed MA(2).

Author information:
(1)Kings College of Engineering, Punalkulam, Tamilnadu 613303, India ; System 
Software Group, M.A.M College of Engineering, Tiruchirappalli, Tamilnadu 621105, 
India.
(2)System Software Group, M.A.M College of Engineering, Tiruchirappalli, 
Tamilnadu 621105, India.

Advances in microelectromechanical systems (MEMS) and nanotechnology have 
enabled design of low power wireless sensor nodes capable of sensing different 
vital signs in our body. These nodes can communicate with each other to 
aggregate data and transmit vital parameters to a base station (BS). The data 
collected in the base station can be used to monitor health in real time. The 
patient wearing sensors may be mobile leading to aggregation of data from 
different BS for processing. Processing real time data is compute-intensive and 
telemedicine facilities may not have appropriate hardware to process the real 
time data effectively. To overcome this, sensor grid has been proposed in 
literature wherein sensor data is integrated to the grid for processing. This 
work proposes a scheduling algorithm to efficiently process telemedicine data in 
the grid. The proposed algorithm uses the popular swarm intelligence algorithm 
for scheduling to overcome the NP complete problem of grid scheduling. Results 
compared with other heuristic scheduling algorithms show the effectiveness of 
the proposed algorithm.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/592342
PMCID: PMC4273462
PMID: 25548557


1654. J Hosp Infect. 2015 Feb;89(2):77-81. doi: 10.1016/j.jhin.2014.10.006. Epub 2014 
Nov 22.

Working practices and success of infection prevention and control teams: a 
scoping study.

Hale R(1), Powell T(2), Drey NS(3), Gould DJ(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Healthcare Sciences, Cardiff University, Cardiff, UK. Electronic 
address: HaleR1@cardiff.ac.uk.
(2)School of Healthcare Sciences, Cardiff University, Cardiff, UK.
(3)School of Health Sciences, City University, London, UK.

Little research has been undertaken on how infection prevention and control 
(IPC) teams operate and how their effectiveness is assessed. This review aimed 
to explore how IPC teams embed IPC throughout hospitals, balance outbreak 
management with strategic aspects of IPC work (e.g. education), and how IPC team 
performance is measured. A scoping exercise was performed combining literature 
searches, evidence synthesis, and intelligence from expert advisers. Eleven 
publications were identified. One paper quantified how IPC nurses spend their 
time, two described daily activities of IPC teams, five described initiatives to 
embed IPC across organizations following legislation since 1999 in the UK or 
changes in the delivery of healthcare, and three explored the contribution of 
IPC intermediaries (link nurses and champions). Eight publications reported 
research findings. The others reported how IPC teams are embedding IPC practice 
in UK hospitals. In conclusion, there is scope for research to explore different 
models of IPC team-working and effectiveness, and cost-effectiveness. Other 
topics that need addressing are the willingness and ability of ward staff to 
assume increased responsibility for IPC and the effectiveness of intermediaries.

Copyright © 2014 The Healthcare Infection Society. Published by Elsevier Ltd. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhin.2014.10.006
PMID: 25549828 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1655. Microscopy (Oxf). 2015 Feb;64(1):17-26. doi: 10.1093/jmicro/dfu112. Epub 2014 
Dec 30.

Three-dimensional volume imaging with electron microscopy toward connectome.

Ohno N(1), Katoh M(2), Saitoh Y(2), Saitoh S(2), Ohno S(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy and Molecular Histology, Interdisciplinary Graduate 
School of Medicine and Engineering, University of Yamanashi, 1110 Shimokato, 
Chuo city, Yamanashi 409-3898, Japan nohno@yamanashi.ac.jp.
(2)Department of Anatomy and Molecular Histology, Interdisciplinary Graduate 
School of Medicine and Engineering, University of Yamanashi, 1110 Shimokato, 
Chuo city, Yamanashi 409-3898, Japan.

Ultrastructural analyses with electron microscopy have provided indispensable 
information to understand physiology and pathology of the nervous system. Recent 
advancement in imaging methodology paved the way for complete reconstruction of 
the neuronal connection map in the central nervous system, which is termed 
'connectome' and would provide key insights to understand the functions of the 
brain. The critical advancement includes serial ultrastructural observation with 
scanning electron microscopy (SEM) instead of conventional serial sectioning 
transmission electron microscopy along with specific tissue preparation methods 
to increase heavy metal deposition for efficient SEM imaging. The advanced 
imaging methods using SEM have distinct advantages and disadvantages in multiple 
aspects, such as resolution and imaging speed, and should be selected depending 
on the observation conditions, such as target tissue sizes, required spatial 
resolution and necessity for re-observation. Dealing with the huge dataset 
remained to be a major obstacle, and automation in segmentation and 3D 
reconstruction would be critical to understand neuronal circuits in a larger 
volume of the brain. Future improvement in acquisition and analyses of the 
morphological data obtained with the advanced SEM imaging is awaited to 
elucidate the significance of whole connectome as the structural basis of the 
consciousness, intelligence and memory of a subject.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The 
Japanese Society of Microscopy. All rights reserved. For permissions, please 
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jmicro/dfu112
PMID: 25550364 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1656. PLoS One. 2014 Dec 31;9(12):e112691. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0112691. 
eCollection 2014.

Medial frontal white and gray matter contributions to general intelligence.

Ohtani T(1), Nestor PG(2), Bouix S(3), Saito Y(3), Hosokawa T(1), Kubicki M(3).

Author information:
(1)Psychiatry Neuroimaging Laboratory, Department of Psychiatry and Radiology, 
Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, United States 
of America; Clinical Neuroscience Division, Laboratory of Neuroscience, 
Department of Psychiatry, Veterans Affairs (VA) Boston Healthcare System, 
Harvard Medical School Brockton, MA, United States of America.
(2)Clinical Neuroscience Division, Laboratory of Neuroscience, Department of 
Psychiatry, Veterans Affairs (VA) Boston Healthcare System, Harvard Medical 
School Brockton, MA, United States of America; Department of Psychology, 
University of Massachusetts, Boston, MA, United States of America.
(3)Psychiatry Neuroimaging Laboratory, Department of Psychiatry and Radiology, 
Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, United States 
of America.

The medial orbitofrontal cortex (mOFC) and rostral anterior cingulate cortex 
(rACC) are part of a wider neural network that plays an important role in 
general intelligence and executive function. We used structural brain imaging to 
quantify magnetic resonance gray matter volume and diffusion tensor white matter 
integrity of the mOFC-rACC network in 26 healthy participants who also completed 
neuropsychological tests of intellectual abilities and executive function. 
Stochastic tractography, the most effective Diffusion Tensor Imaging method for 
examining white matter connections between adjacent gray matter regions, was 
employed to assess the integrity of mOFC-rACC pathways. Fractional anisotropy 
(FA), which reflects the integrity of white matter connections, was calculated. 
Results indicated that higher intelligence correlated with greater gray matter 
volumes for both mOFC and rACC, as well as with increased FA for left posterior 
mOFC-rACC connectivity. Hierarchical regression analyses revealed that 
DTI-derived FA of left posterior mOFC-rACC uniquely accounted for 29%-34% of the 
variance in IQ, in comparison to 11%-16% uniquely explained by gray matter 
volume of the left rACC. Together, left rACC gray matter volume and white matter 
connectivity between left posterior mOFC and rACC accounted for up to 50% of the 
variance in general intelligence. This study is to our knowledge the first to 
examine white matter connectivity between OFC and ACC, two gray matter regions 
of interests that are very close in physical proximity, and underscores the 
important independent contributions of variations in rACC gray matter volume and 
mOFC-rACC white matter connectivity to individual differences in general 
intelligence.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0112691
PMCID: PMC4281236
PMID: 25551572 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


1657. Appl Psychol Meas. 2015 Jan;39(1):16-30. doi: 10.1177/0146621614552014. Epub 
2014 Oct 20.

The Multicomponent Latent Trait Model for Diagnosis: Applications to 
Heterogeneous Test Domains.

Embretson SE(1).

Author information:
(1)Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, USA.

Heterogeneous item content is prevalent on psychological and educational tests 
that measure global traits or competencies, such as general intelligence and 
achievement tests. In such tests, the domain is broadly defined, so as to 
include many attributes and skills. Items often vary substantially in both the 
type and the number of attributes or skills that are involved in item solving. A 
hierarchical organization is often necessary to accommodate the heterogeneity of 
the test domain. For example, the mathematical achievement tests that are 
routinely administered in all U.S. states at the end of the school year 
typically have this hierarchical structure. The multicomponent latent trait 
model for diagnosis (MLTM-D) was developed for application to heterogeneous 
tests. MLTM-D is a confirmatory model that permits diagnosis at broad and more 
specific attribute or skill levels. In the current study, MLTM-D is applied to 
diagnose mastery at both the broad and specific skill levels in middle school 
mathematics. MLTM-D is presented, and methods involved in application are 
described.

DOI: 10.1177/0146621614552014
PMCID: PMC5978570
PMID: 29880991

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting Interests: The 
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


1658. Drug Des Devel Ther. 2014 Dec 17;9:103-25. doi: 10.2147/DDDT.S51476. eCollection 
2015.

Pharmacological approaches to improving cognitive function in Down syndrome: 
current status and considerations.

Gardiner KJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Linda Crnic Institute for Down Syndrome, Department of Pediatrics, Department 
of Biochemistry and Molecular Genetics, Human Medical Genetics and Genomics 
Program, Neuroscience Program, University of Colorado School of Medicine, 
Aurora, CO, USA.

Down syndrome (DS), also known as trisomy 21, is the most common genetic cause 
of intellectual disability (ID). Although ID can be mild, the average 
intelligence quotient is in the range of 40-50. All individuals with DS will 
also develop the neuropathology of Alzheimer's disease (AD) by the age of 30-40 
years, and approximately half will display an AD-like dementia by the age of 60 
years. DS is caused by an extra copy of the long arm of human chromosome 21 
(Hsa21) and the consequent elevated levels of expression, due to dosage, of 
trisomic genes. Despite a worldwide incidence of one in 700-1,000 live births, 
there are currently no pharmacological treatments available for ID or AD in DS. 
However, over the last several years, very promising results have been obtained 
with a mouse model of DS, the Ts65Dn. A diverse array of drugs has been shown to 
rescue, or partially rescue, DS-relevant deficits in learning and memory and 
abnormalities in cellular and electrophysiological features seen in the Ts65Dn. 
These results suggest that some level of amelioration or prevention of cognitive 
deficits in people with DS may be possible. Here, we review information from the 
preclinical evaluations in the Ts65Dn, how drugs were selected, how efficacy was 
judged, and how outcomes differ, or not, among studies. We also summarize the 
current state of human clinical trials for ID and AD in DS. Lastly, we describe 
the genetic limitations of the Ts65Dn as a model of DS, and in the preclinical 
testing of pharmacotherapeutics, and suggest additional targets to be considered 
for potential pharmacotherapies.

DOI: 10.2147/DDDT.S51476
PMCID: PMC4277121
PMID: 25552901 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1659. Big Data. 2014 Dec 1;2(4):185-195. doi: 10.1089/big.2014.0046.

Forecasting Significant Societal Events Using The Embers Streaming Predictive 
Analytics System.

Doyle A(1), Katz G(1), Summers K(1), Ackermann C(1), Zavorin I(1), Lim Z(1), 
Muthiah S(2), Butler P(2), Self N(2), Zhao L(2), Lu CT(2), Khandpur RP(2), Fayed 
Y(3), Ramakrishnan N(2).

Author information:
(1)CACI Inc. , Lanham, Maryland.
(2)Virginia Tech , Arlington, Virginia.
(3)BASIS Technology , Herndon, Virginia.

Developed under the Intelligence Advanced Research Project Activity Open Source 
Indicators program, Early Model Based Event Recognition using Surrogates 
(EMBERS) is a large-scale big data analytics system for forecasting significant 
societal events, such as civil unrest events on the basis of continuous, 
automated analysis of large volumes of publicly available data. It has been 
operational since November 2012 and delivers approximately 50 predictions each 
day for countries of Latin America. EMBERS is built on a streaming, scalable, 
loosely coupled, shared-nothing architecture using ZeroMQ as its messaging 
backbone and JSON as its wire data format. It is deployed on Amazon Web Services 
using an entirely automated deployment process. We describe the architecture of 
the system, some of the design tradeoffs encountered during development, and 
specifics of the machine learning models underlying EMBERS. We also present a 
detailed prospective evaluation of EMBERS in forecasting significant societal 
events in the past 2 years.

DOI: 10.1089/big.2014.0046
PMCID: PMC4276118
PMID: 25553271


1660. Psychiatry Res. 2015 Feb 28;225(3):550-5. doi: 10.1016/j.psychres.2014.11.049. 
Epub 2014 Dec 5.

Selective attention deficits in obsessive-compulsive disorder: the role of 
metacognitive processes.

Koch J(1), Exner C(2).

Author information:
(1)Schoen Klinik Bad Arolsen, Hofgarten 10, D-34454 Bad Arolsen, Germany. 
Electronic address: jukoch@schoen-kliniken.de.
(2)Department of Clinical Psychology and Psychotherapy, University of Leipzig, 
Seeburgstr. 14-20, D-04103 Leipzig, Germany.

While initial studies supported the hypothesis that cognitive characteristics 
that capture cognitive resources act as underlying mechanisms in memory deficits 
in obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), the influence of those characteristics 
on selective attention has not been studied, yet. In this study, we examined the 
influence of cognitive self-consciousness (CSC), rumination and worrying on 
performance in selective attention in OCD and compared the results to a 
depressive and a healthy control group. We found that 36 OCD and 36 depressive 
participants were impaired in selective attention in comparison to 36 healthy 
controls. In all groups, hierarchical regression analyses demonstrated that age, 
intelligence and years in school significantly predicted performance in 
selective attention. But only in OCD, the predictive power of the regression 
model was improved when CSC, rumination and worrying were implemented as 
predictor variables. In contrast, in none of the three groups the predictive 
power improved when indicators of severity of obsessive-compulsive (OC) and 
depressive symptoms and trait anxiety were introduced as predictor variables. 
Thus, our results support the assumption that mental characteristics that bind 
cognitive resources play an important role in the understanding of selective 
attention deficits in OCD and that this mechanism is especially relevant for 
OCD.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2014.11.049
PMID: 25554356 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1661. J Pediatr. 2015 Mar;166(3):717-22. doi: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2014.11.031. Epub 2014 
Dec 31.

The role of pre-primary classes on school-age cognition in rural Nepal.

Jaganath D(1), Khatry SK(2), Murray-Kolb LE(3), LeClerq SC(2), Christian P(4).

Author information:
(1)Center for Human Nutrition, Department of International Health, Johns Hopkins 
Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, MD; Department of Pediatrics, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD.
(2)Center for Human Nutrition, Department of International Health, Johns Hopkins 
Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, MD; Nepal Nutrition Intervention 
Project, Sarlahi, Kathmandu, Nepal.
(3)Department of Nutritional Sciences, The Pennsylvania State University, 
University Park, PA.
(4)Center for Human Nutrition, Department of International Health, Johns Hopkins 
Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, MD. Electronic address: 
pchrist1@jhu.edu.

OBJECTIVES: In rural Nepal, we assessed the factors associated with pre-primary 
school attendance and its relationship to cognitive testing and school progress.
STUDY DESIGN: Sociodemographic, household, and schooling data were collected 
among 1466 children age 7-9 years from Sarlahi, Nepal. We performed the 
Universal Nonverbal Intelligence Test, backward digit span, go/no-go test, 
Movement Assessment Battery for Children, finger-tapping test, and Stroop 
numbers test. We conducted adjusted regression analyses to determine the 
association of pre-primary school attendance with test results and school 
progress.
RESULTS: We found that pre-primary class enrollment was lower among children of 
female sex, Madheshi ethnicity, and low socioeconomic status. In adjusted 
analyses, pre-primary school enrollment was associated with beneficial scores on 
all cognitive tests. In addition, children who attended pre-primary school were 
less likely to repeat grade 1 (prevalence ratio 0.15, 95% CI 0.08-0.30, P < 
.001) or ever fail a grade (prevalence ratio 0.48, 95% CI 0.26-0.90, P = .02).
CONCLUSIONS: In rural Nepal, there continue to be disparities in pre-primary 
school attendance; however, independent of these factors, pre-primary school 
attendance was associated with benefits in multiple cognitive domains and early 
school performance.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2014.11.031
PMID: 25557964 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1662. Pediatr Neurol. 2015 Apr;52(4):428-34. doi: 10.1016/j.pediatrneurol.2014.11.016. 
Epub 2014 Dec 3.

Hemiparesis and epilepsy are associated with worse reported health status 
following unilateral stroke in children.

Smith SE(1), Vargas G(2), Cucchiara AJ(3), Zelonis SJ(4), Beslow LA(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, Perelman 
School of Medicine at The University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania; Department of Pediatrics, The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, 
Perelman School of Medicine at The University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania; Division of Pediatric Neurology, Kaiser Permanente Oakland Medical 
Center, Oakland, California. Electronic address: Sabrina.E.Smith@kp.org.
(2)Department of Neurology, The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, Perelman 
School of Medicine at The University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania; Department of Pediatrics, The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, 
Perelman School of Medicine at The University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania; Department of Psychology, Penn State University, University Park, 
Pennsylvania.
(3)Clinical and Translational Research Center, The University of Pennsylvania, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
(4)Department of Neurology, The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, Perelman 
School of Medicine at The University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania; Department of Pediatrics, The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, 
Perelman School of Medicine at The University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania.
(5)Department of Neurology, The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, Perelman 
School of Medicine at The University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania; Department of Pediatrics, The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, 
Perelman School of Medicine at The University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania; Department of Pediatrics, Yale University School of Medicine, New 
Haven, Connecticut; Department of Neurology, Yale University School of Medicine, 
New Haven, Connecticut.

BACKGROUND: Perinatal and childhood stroke result in neurological impairment in 
the majority of survivors, but less is known about patient and parent perception 
of function following stroke in children. Our aim was to characterize 
parent-proxy and child-reported health status in children following unilateral 
arterial ischemic stroke or intraparenchymal hemorrhage.
METHODS: Fifty-nine children 2-18 years (30 girls, 29 boys) with unilateral 
arterial ischemic stroke or spontaneous intraparenchymal hemorrhage at least 6 
months before evaluation were enrolled from a single center. The PedsQL version 
4.0 Generic Short Form and PedsQL version 3.0 Cerebral Palsy Module were 
administered to childhood stroke subjects and parents. Generic PedsQL Inventory 
scores were compared between children with stroke and published data from 
healthy children. Reported health status scores for children with varying 
degrees of hemiparesis were compared.
RESULTS: Children with stroke had lower reported health status scores on the 
Generic PedsQL Inventory than healthy children. Children with moderate-severe 
hemiparesis had worse scores than children without hemiparesis on several 
measures of the Cerebral Palsy Module as reported by both parents and children. 
The parents of children with epilepsy reported worse scores on several measures 
compared with children without epilepsy, and the parent scores were lower on 
several measures for children with lower intelligence quotients. Agreement 
between parent and child scores was better on the Cerebral Palsy Module than on 
the Generic Inventory.
CONCLUSIONS: Children with stroke have worse reported health status than healthy 
controls. Degree of hemiparesis, epilepsy, and lower intelligence quotient 
affect reported health status on some measures. Agreement between parent-proxy 
and child scores ranges from slight to good which suggests that both provide 
useful information.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pediatrneurol.2014.11.016
PMCID: PMC4556437
PMID: 25559938 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1663. Glob J Health Sci. 2014 Aug 31;7(1):210-9. doi: 10.5539/gjhs.v7n1p210.

Do self-perceptions of emotional intelligence predict health-related quality of 
life? A case study in hospital managers in Greece.

Gourzoulidis G(1), Kontodimopoulos N, Kastanioti C, Bellali T, Goumas K, 
Voudigaris D, Polyzos N.

Author information:
(1). geo_gourzoulidis@hotmail.com.

The aim of this study was to examine HRQoL outcome and EI of managers of Health 
Organizations. We collected data from 120 general managers of Greek public 
hospitals who completed the Assessing Emotions Scale (AES) and the SF-36 Health 
Survey. The results showed that male managers generally exhibited better HRQoL 
and slightly worse EI than females, although differences were not significant 
throughout. The three EI factors of the AES addressing appraisal, 
optimism/regulation and utilization of emotions correlated from 0.18 to 0.39 
with sub-dimensions of HRQoL mostly related to mental -rather than physical- 
aspects of health, and were also significant predictors of HRQoL. There was a 
noteworthy gender difference in the manner in which EI predicted HRQoL and this 
suggests more testing. Overall, this study might enrich the potential for EI 
studies in Greece as well as to contribute to the international literature.

DOI: 10.5539/gjhs.v7n1p210
PMCID: PMC4796501
PMID: 25560350 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1664. Osong Public Health Res Perspect. 2014 Dec;5(6):339-44. doi: 
10.1016/j.phrp.2014.09.004. Epub 2014 Nov 12.

Dentofacial and cranial changes in down syndrome.

Shukla D(1), Bablani D(1), Chowdhry A(1), Thapar R(2), Gupta P(3), Mishra S(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral Pathology and Microbiology, Faculty of Dentistry, Jamia 
Millia Islamia University, New Delhi, India.
(2)Department of Oral Pathology and Microbiology, Shri Bankey Bihari Dental 
College, Ghaziabad, India.
(3)Department of Preventive and Community Dentistry, Government College of 
Dentistry, New Dehli, India.
(4)Department of Neurosurgery, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New 
Delhi, India.

OBJECTIVES: This study aimed to determine the prevalence of certain oral 
characteristics usually associated with Down syndrome and to determine the oral 
health status of these patients.
METHODS: The cross-sectional study was conducted among patients attending a 
special education program at Faculty of Dentistry, Jamia Millia Islamia, Delhi, 
India. The study design consisted of closed-ended questions on demographic 
characteristics (age, sex, and education and income of parents), dietary habits, 
and oral hygiene habits. Clinical examination included assessment of oral 
hygiene according to Simplified Oral Hygiene Index (OHI-S), dental caries 
according to decayed, missing, and filled teeth (DMFT) index, periodontal status 
according to the Community Periodontal Index of Treatment Needs (CPITN), and 
malocclusion according to Angles classification of malocclusion. Examinations 
were carried out using a using a CPI probe and a mouth mirror in accordance with 
World Health Organization criteria and methods. Craniometric measurements, 
including maximum head length and head breadth were measured for each 
participant using Martin spreading calipers centered on standard anthropological 
methods.
RESULTS: The majority of the patients were males (n = 63; 82%) with age ranging 
from 6-40 years. The Intelligence Quotient (IQ) score of the patients indicated 
that 31% had moderate mental disability and 52% had mild mental disability. 22% 
exhibited hearing and speech problems.12% had missing teeth and 15% had retained 
deciduous teeth in adult population. The overall prevalence of dental caries in 
the study population was 78%. DMFT, CPITN and OHI scores of the study group were 
3.8 ± 2.52, 2.10 ± 1.14 and 1.92 ± 0.63 respectively. The vast majority of 
patients required treatment (90%), primarily of scaling, root planing, and oral 
hygiene education. 16% of patients reported CPITN scores of 4 (deep pockets) 
requiring complex periodontal care. The prevalence of malocclusion was 97% 
predominantly of Class III malocclusions. Further 14% presented with fractured 
anterior teeth primarily central incisor. The percentage means of cephalic index 
was 84.6% in the study population. The brachycephalic and hyperbrachycephalic 
type of head shape was dominant in the Down syndrome individuals (90%).
CONCLUSION: The most common dentofacial anomaly seen in these individuals was 
fissured tongue followed by macroglossia.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phrp.2014.09.004
PMCID: PMC4281609
PMID: 25562042


1665. Indian J Dent. 2014 Oct;5(4):218-21. doi: 10.4103/0975-962X.144738.

Pycnodysostosis: A bone dysplasia with unusual oral manifestation.

Balaji MS(1), Sundaram RK(1), Karthik P(1), Asokan K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral Medicine and Radiology, SRM Dental College, Ramapuram, 
Chennai, India.

Pycnodysostosis, a sclerosing bone dysplasia, is a rare autosomal recessive 
disorder with an estimated prevalence rate of one in one million. Patients with 
pycnodyostosis usually have normal intelligence, sexual development and life 
span. This condition is characterized by increased bone density and fragility 
along with oral manifestations like malposition teeth, hypoplastic maxilla, 
receded chin and delayed eruption of permanent teeth with discharging sinuses in 
the jaws because of poor blood supply. This is one such rare case report of a 
47-year-old patient presenting with a complaint of fractured jaw and reviewing 
the clinical and radiographic characteristics of pycnodysostosis.

DOI: 10.4103/0975-962X.144738
PMCID: PMC4260389
PMID: 25565757

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None declared.


1666. Front Psychol. 2014 Dec 16;5:1447. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.01447. eCollection 
2014.

Long term impact of emotional, social and cognitive intelligence competencies 
and GMAT on career and life satisfaction and career success.

Amdurer E(1), Boyatzis RE(2), Saatcioglu A(3), Smith ML(2), Taylor SN(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Organizational Behavior, Case Western Reserve University 
Cleveland, OH, USA ; YSC Ltd New York, NY, USA.
(2)Department of Organizational Behavior, Case Western Reserve University 
Cleveland, OH, USA.
(3)Department of Educational Leadership and Policy Studies, University of Kansas 
Lawrence, KS, USA.
(4)Management Division, Babson College Wellesley, MA, USA.

Career scholars have called for a broader definition of career success by 
inviting greater exploration of its antecedents. While success in various jobs 
has been predicted by intelligence and in other studies by competencies, 
especially in management, long term impact of having intelligence and using 
competencies has not been examined. Even in collegiate outcome studies, few have 
examined the longer term impact on graduates' careers or lives. This study 
assesses the impact of demonstrated emotional, social, and cognitive 
intelligence competencies assessed at graduation and g measured through GMAT at 
entry from an MBA program on career and life satisfaction, and career success 
assessed 5 to 19 years after graduation. Using behavioral measures of 
competencies (i.e., as assessed by others), we found that emotional intelligence 
competencies predict career satisfaction and success. Adaptability had a 
positive impact, but influence had the opposite effect on these career measures 
and life satisfaction. Life satisfaction was negatively affected by achievement 
orientation and positively affected by teamwork. Current salary, length of 
marriage, and being younger at time of graduation positively affect all three 
measures of life and career satisfaction and career success. GMAT (as a measure 
of g) predicted life satisfaction and career success to a slight but significant 
degree in the final model analyzed. Meanwhile, being female and number of 
children positively affected life satisfaction but cognitive intelligence 
competencies negatively affected it, and in particular demonstrated systems 
thinking was negative.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.01447
PMCID: PMC4267171
PMID: 25566128


1667. Front Psychol. 2014 Dec 17;5:1450. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.01450. eCollection 
2014.

Processing speed enhances model-based over model-free reinforcement learning in 
the presence of high working memory functioning.

Schad DJ(1), Jünger E(2), Sebold M(1), Garbusow M(1), Bernhardt N(3), Javadi 
AH(4), Zimmermann US(2), Smolka MN(3), Heinz A(1), Rapp MA(5), Huys QJ(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, Charité Universitätsmedizin 
Berlin Berlin, Germany.
(2)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University Hospital Carl Gustav 
Carus, Technische Universität Dresden Dresden, Germany.
(3)Department of Psychiatry and Neuroimaging Center, Technische Universität 
Dresden Dresden, Germany.
(4)Institute of Behavioural Neuroscience, University College London London, UK.
(5)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, Charité Universitätsmedizin 
Berlin Berlin, Germany ; Area of Excellence Cognitive Sciences, University of 
Potsdam Potsdam, Germany.
(6)Translational Neuromodeling Unit, Institute of Biomedical Engineering, 
University of Zurich and Swiss Federal Institute of Technology Zurich, 
Switzerland ; Department of Psychiatry, Psychosomatics, and Psychotherapy, 
Hospital of Psychiatry, University of Zurich Zurich, Switzerland.

Theories of decision-making and its neural substrates have long assumed the 
existence of two distinct and competing valuation systems, variously described 
as goal-directed vs. habitual, or, more recently and based on statistical 
arguments, as model-free vs. model-based reinforcement-learning. Though both 
have been shown to control choices, the cognitive abilities associated with 
these systems are under ongoing investigation. Here we examine the link to 
cognitive abilities, and find that individual differences in processing speed 
covary with a shift from model-free to model-based choice control in the 
presence of above-average working memory function. This suggests shared 
cognitive and neural processes; provides a bridge between literatures on 
intelligence and valuation; and may guide the development of process models of 
different valuation components. Furthermore, it provides a rationale for 
individual differences in the tendency to deploy valuation systems, which may be 
important for understanding the manifold neuropsychiatric diseases associated 
with malfunctions of valuation.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.01450
PMCID: PMC4269125
PMID: 25566131


1668. Front Psychol. 2014 Dec 16;5:1479. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.01479. eCollection 
2014.

Number processing and arithmetic skills in children with cochlear implants.

Pixner S(1), Leyrer M(2), Moeller K(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Applied Psychology, UMIT - The Health and Life Sciences 
University Hall in Tyrol, Austria.
(2)Department of Otolaryngology, Paracelsus University Medical School Salzburg 
Salzburg, Austria ; Department of Linguistics, University of Salzburg Salzburg, 
Austria.
(3)Knowledge Media Research Center Tübingen, Germany ; Department of Psychology, 
University of Tübingen Tübingen, Germany.

Though previous findings report that hearing impaired children exhibit impaired 
language and arithmetic skills, our current understanding of how hearing and the 
associated language impairments may influence the development of arithmetic 
skills is still limited. In the current study numerical/arithmetic performance 
of 45 children with a cochlea implant were compared to that of controls matched 
for hearing age, intelligence and sex. Our main results were twofold disclosing 
that children with CI show general as well as specific numerical/arithmetic 
impairments. On the one hand, we found an increased percentage of children with 
CI with an indication of dyscalculia symptoms, a general slowing in 
multiplication and subtraction as well as less accurate number line estimations. 
On the other hand, however, children with CI exhibited very circumscribed 
difficulties associated with place-value processing. Performance declined 
specifically when subtraction required a borrow procedure and number line 
estimation required the integration of units, tens, and hundreds instead of only 
units and tens. Thus, it seems that despite initially atypical language 
development, children with CI are able to acquire arithmetic skills in a 
qualitatively similar fashion as their normal hearing peers. Nonetheless, when 
demands on place-value understanding, which has only recently been proposed to 
be language mediated, hearing impaired children experience specific 
difficulties.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.01479
PMCID: PMC4267190
PMID: 25566152


1669. BMC Psychol. 2014 Mar 31;2(1):8. doi: 10.1186/2050-7283-2-8. eCollection 2014.

An association of adult personality with prenatal and early postnatal growth: 
the EPQ lie-scale.

Flensborg-Madsen T(1), Revsbech R(2), Sørensen HJ(3), Mortensen EL(4).

Author information:
(1)Unit of Medical Psychology, Institute of Public Health, University of 
Copenhagen, Øster Farimagsgade 5, 1353 Copenhagen K, Denmark.
(2)Hvidovre Psychiatric Center, Dep. 807, Cognitive Research Unit, 
Brondbyostervej 160, 2605 Brondby, Denmark.
(3)Mental Health Centre Copenhagen, Bispebjerg Bakke 23, 2400 Copenhagen NV, 
Denmark.
(4)Unit of Medical Psychology, Institute of Public Health, University of 
Copenhagen, Øster Farimagsgade 5, 1353 Copenhagen K, Denmark ; Center for 
Healthy Aging, Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, University of Copenhagen, 
Blegdamsvej 3B, 2200 Copenhagen K, Denmark ; Institute of Preventive Medicine, 
Frederiksberg Hospital, Hovedvejen 5, Nordre Fasanvej 57, 2000 Frederiksberg, 
Denmark.

BACKGROUND: Recent studies have noted differences in social acquiescence and 
interpersonal relations among adults born preterm or with very low birth weight 
compared to full term adults. In addition, birth weight has been observed to be 
negatively correlated with lie-scale scores in two studies. We attempted to 
replicate and extend these studies by examining young adult lie-scale scores in 
a Danish birth cohort.
METHOD: Weight, length and head circumference of 9125 children from the 
Copenhagen Perinatal Cohort were measured at birth and at 1, 3 and 6 years. A 
subsample comprising 1182 individuals participated in a follow-up at 20-34 years 
and was administered the Eysenck Personality Questionnaire (EPQ) which includes 
a lie-scale (indicating social acquiescence or self-insight). Associations 
between lie-scale scores and weight, length and head circumference respectively 
were analysed by multiple linear regression adjusting for single-mother status, 
parity, mother's age, father's age, parental social status, age at EPQ 
measurement, intelligence, and adult size.
RESULTS: Male infants with lower weight, length, and head-circumference at birth 
and the following three years grew up to have higher scores on the lie-scale as 
young adults. Most of these associations remained significant after adjustment 
for the included covariates. No associations were found for females. Analyses 
were also conducted with neuroticism, extraversion and psychoticism as outcome 
variables, but no significant associations were found for these traits after 
adjustment.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings replicate and extend findings from previous studies 
suggesting that size at birth and during the first three years of life is 
significantly associated with social acquiescence in adult men. They highlight 
the potential influence of prenatal and early postnatal development on 
personality growth and development.

DOI: 10.1186/2050-7283-2-8
PMCID: PMC4270018
PMID: 25566381


1670. Ann Rehabil Med. 2014 Dec;38(6):752-8. doi: 10.5535/arm.2014.38.6.752. Epub 2014 
Dec 24.

The differences in clinical aspect between specific language impairment and 
global developmental delay.

Kim SW(1), Jeon HR(1), Park EJ(1), Chung HJ(2), Song JE(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, National Health Insurance 
Service Ilsan Hospital, Goyang, Korea.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, National Health Insurance Service Ilsan Hospital, 
Goyang, Korea.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, National Health Insurance Service Ilsan Hospital, 
Goyang, Korea.

OBJECTIVE: To compare and analyze the clinical characteristics of children with 
delayed language acquisition due to two different diagnoses, which were specific 
language impairment (SLI, a primarily delayed language development) and global 
developmental delay (GDD, a language delay related to cognitive impairment).
METHODS: Among 1,598 children who had visited the developmental delay clinic 
from March 2005 to February 2011, 467 children who were diagnosed with GDD and 
183 children who were diagnosed with SLI were included in this study. All 
children were questioned about past, family, and developmental history, and 
their language competences and cognitive function were assessed. Some children 
got electroencephalography (EEG), in case of need.
RESULTS: The presence of the perinatal risk factors showed no difference in two 
groups. In the children with GDD, they had more delayed acquisition of 
independent walking and more frequent EEG abnormalities compared with the 
children with SLI (p<0.01). The positive family history of delayed language 
development was more prevalent in children with SLI (p<0.01). In areas of 
language ability, the quotient of receptive language and expressive language did 
not show any meaningful statistical differences between the two groups. 
Analyzing in each group, the receptive language quotient was higher than 
expressive language quotient in both group (p<0.01). In the GDD group, the 
Bayley Scales of Infant Development II (BSID-II) showed a marked low mental and 
motor quotient while the Wechsler Intelligence Scale showed low verbal and 
nonverbal IQ. In the SLI group, the BSID-II and Wechsler Intelligence Scale 
showed low scores in mental area and verbal IQ but sparing motor area and 
nonverbal IQ.
CONCLUSION: The linguistic profiles of children with language delay could not 
differentiate between SLI and GDD. The clinicians needed to be aware of these 
developmental issues, and history taking and clinical evaluation, including 
cognitive assessment, could be helpful to diagnose adequately and set the 
treatment plan for each child.

DOI: 10.5535/arm.2014.38.6.752
PMCID: PMC4280370
PMID: 25566473

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest relevant to 
this article was reported.


1671. Ann Rehabil Med. 2014 Dec;38(6):759-65. doi: 10.5535/arm.2014.38.6.759. Epub 
2014 Dec 24.

Characteristics of Cognitive Impairment in Patients With Post-stroke Aphasia.

Lee B(1), Pyun SB(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Korea University College 
of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

OBJECTIVE: To analyze cognitive functions of post-stroke aphasia patients 
compared to patients having right hemispheric stroke and left hemispheric 
lesions without aphasia, and to look for a relationship between cognitive 
deficits and aphasia severity.
METHODS: Thirty-six patients with right hemispheric stroke (group 1), 32 with 
left hemispheric lesion without aphasia (group 2), and 26 left hemispheric 
stroke patients with aphasia (group 3) completed a set of tests in the 
computerized neurocognitive function batteries for attention, executive function 
and intelligence and Korean version of Western Aphasia Battery. Data analyses 
explored cognitive characteristics among the three groups and the correlation 
between cognitive deficits and aphasia severity.
RESULTS: Right hemispheric and left hemispheric stroke patients without aphasia 
showed similar findings except for digit span forward test. Cognitive tests for 
working memory and sustained attention were significantly impaired in the 
aphasic patients, but intelligence was shown to be similar in the three groups. 
Significant correlation between cognitive deficit and aphasia severity was only 
shown in some attention tests.
CONCLUSION: Cognitive deficits may be accompanied with post-stroke aphasia and 
there are possible associations between language and cognitive measures. 
Therefore, detection and treatment towards coexisting cognitive impairment may 
be necessary for efficient aphasia treatment.

DOI: 10.5535/arm.2014.38.6.759
PMCID: PMC4280371
PMID: 25566474

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest relevant to 
this article was reported.


1672. Front Public Health. 2014 Dec 22;2:280. doi: 10.3389/fpubh.2014.00280. 
eCollection 2014.

Vector-borne disease intelligence: strategies to deal with disease burden and 
threats.

Braks M(1), Medlock JM(2), Hubalek Z(3), Hjertqvist M(4), Perrin Y(5), Lancelot 
R(6), Duchyene E(7), Hendrickx G(7), Stroo A(8), Heyman P(9), Sprong H(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Zoonoses and Environmental Microbiology, Netherlands National 
Institute for Public Health and the Environment (RIVM) , Bilthoven , 
Netherlands.
(2)Medical Entomology Group, MRA, Emergency Response Department, Public Health 
England , Salisbury , UK.
(3)Medical Zoology Laboratory, Institute of Vertebrate Biology, Academy of 
Sciences, v.v.i. , Brno , Czech Republic ; Faculty of Science, Department of 
Experimental Biology, Masaryk University , Brno , Czech Republic.
(4)Public Health Agency of Sweden (Folkhälsomyndigheten) , Solna , Sweden.
(5)Centre National d'Expertise sur les Vecteurs, Centre IRD de Montpellier , 
Montpellier , France.
(6)CIRAD, UMR CMAEE , Montpellier , France ; INRA, UMR CMAEE 1309 , Montpellier 
, France.
(7)Avia-GIS , Zoersel , Belgium.
(8)Centre for Monitoring of Vectors, Netherlands Food and Consumer Product 
Safety Authority (NWVA) , Wageningen , Netherlands.
(9)Research Laboratory for Vector-Borne Diseases, Queen Astrid Military Hospital 
, Brussels , Belgium.

Owing to the complex nature of vector-borne diseases (VBDs), whereby monitoring 
of human case patients does not suffice, public health authorities experience 
challenges in surveillance and control of VBDs. Knowledge on the presence and 
distribution of vectors and the pathogens that they transmit is vital to the 
risk assessment process to permit effective early warning, surveillance, and 
control of VBDs. Upon accepting this reality, public health authorities face an 
ever-increasing range of possible surveillance targets and an associated 
prioritization process. Here, we propose a comprehensive approach that 
integrates three surveillance strategies: population-based surveillance, 
disease-based surveillance, and context-based surveillance for EU member states 
to tailor the best surveillance strategy for control of VBDs in their geographic 
region. By classifying the surveillance structure into five different contexts, 
we hope to provide guidance in optimizing surveillance efforts. Contextual 
surveillance strategies for VBDs entail combining organization and data 
collection approaches that result in disease intelligence rather than a preset 
static structure.

DOI: 10.3389/fpubh.2014.00280
PMCID: PMC4273637
PMID: 25566522


1673. Front Bioeng Biotechnol. 2014 Dec 19;2:75. doi: 10.3389/fbioe.2014.00075. 
eCollection 2014.

Toward synthesizing executable models in biology.

Fisher J(1), Piterman N(2), Bodik R(3).

Author information:
(1)Microsoft Research , Cambridge , UK ; Department of Biochemistry, University 
of Cambridge , Cambridge , UK.
(2)Department of Computer Science, University of Leicester , Leicester , UK.
(3)Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, University of California 
Berkeley , Berkeley, CA , USA.

Over the last decade, executable models of biological behaviors have repeatedly 
provided new scientific discoveries, uncovered novel insights, and directed new 
experimental avenues. These models are computer programs whose execution 
mechanistically simulates aspects of the cell's behaviors. If the observed 
behavior of the program agrees with the observed biological behavior, then the 
program explains the phenomena. This approach has proven beneficial for gaining 
new biological insights and directing new experimental avenues. One advantage of 
this approach is that techniques for analysis of computer programs can be 
applied to the analysis of executable models. For example, one can confirm that 
a model agrees with experiments for all possible executions of the model 
(corresponding to all environmental conditions), even if there are a huge number 
of executions. Various formal methods have been adapted for this context, for 
example, model checking or symbolic analysis of state spaces. To avoid manual 
construction of executable models, one can apply synthesis, a method to produce 
programs automatically from high-level specifications. In the context of 
biological modeling, synthesis would correspond to extracting executable models 
from experimental data. We survey recent results about the usage of the 
techniques underlying synthesis of computer programs for the inference of 
biological models from experimental data. We describe synthesis of biological 
models from curated mutation experiment data, inferring network connectivity 
models from phosphoproteomic data, and synthesis of Boolean networks from gene 
expression data. While much work has been done on automated analysis of similar 
datasets using machine learning and artificial intelligence, using synthesis 
techniques provides new opportunities such as efficient computation of 
disambiguating experiments, as well as the ability to produce different kinds of 
models automatically from biological data.

DOI: 10.3389/fbioe.2014.00075
PMCID: PMC4271700
PMID: 25566538


1674. Cortex. 2015 Mar;64:293-309. doi: 10.1016/j.cortex.2014.11.005. Epub 2014 Dec 2.

The smarter, the stronger: intelligence level correlates with brain resilience 
to systematic insults.

Santarnecchi E(1), Rossi S(2), Rossi A(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Surgery and Neuroscience, Neurology and Clinical 
Neurophysiology Section, Brain Investigation & Neuromodulation Lab, University 
of Siena, Italy; Berenson-Allen Center for Non-Invasive Brain Stimulation, Beth 
Israel Medical Center, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA. Electronic 
address: esantarn@bidmc.harvard.edu.
(2)Department of Medicine, Surgery and Neuroscience, Neurology and Clinical 
Neurophysiology Section, Brain Investigation & Neuromodulation Lab, University 
of Siena, Italy.

Neuroimaging evidences posit human intelligence as tightly coupled with several 
structural and functional brain properties, also suggesting its potential 
protective role against aging and neurodegenerative conditions. However, whether 
higher order cognition might in fact lead to a more resilient brain has not been 
quantitatively demonstrated yet. Here we document a relationship between 
individual intelligence quotient (IQ) and brain resilience to targeted and 
random attacks, as measured through resting-state fMRI graph-theoretical 
analysis in 102 healthy individuals. In this modeling context, enhanced brain 
robustness to targeted attacks (TA) in individuals with higher IQ is supported 
by an increased distributed processing capacity despite the systematic loss of 
the most important node(s) of the system. Moreover, brain resilience in 
individuals with higher IQ is supported by a set of neocortical regions mainly 
belonging to language and memory processing network(s), whereas regions related 
to emotional processing are mostly responsible for lower IQ individuals. Results 
suggest intelligence level among the predictors of post-lesional or 
neurodegenerative recovery, also promoting the evolutionary role of higher order 
cognition, and simultaneously suggesting a new framework for brain stimulation 
interventions aimed at counteract brain deterioration over time.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cortex.2014.11.005
PMID: 25569764 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1675. Annu Int Conf IEEE Eng Med Biol Soc. 2014;2014:1338-41. doi: 
10.1109/EMBC.2014.6943846.

Enhancing accuracy of mental fatigue classification using advanced computational 
intelligence in an electroencephalography system.

Chai R, Tran Y, Craig A, Ling SH, Nguyen HT.

A system using electroencephalography (EEG) signals could enhance the detection 
of mental fatigue while driving a vehicle. This paper examines the 
classification between fatigue and alert states using an autoregressive (AR) 
model-based power spectral density (PSD) as the features extraction method and 
fuzzy particle swarm optimization with cross mutated of artificial neural 
network (FPSOCM-ANN) as the classification method. Using 32-EEG channels, 
results indicated an improved overall specificity from 76.99% to 82.02%, an 
improved sensitivity from 74.92 to 78.99% and an improved accuracy from 75.95% 
to 80.51% when compared to previous studies. The classification using fewer EEG 
channels, with eleven frontal sites resulted in 77.52% for specificity, 73.78% 
for sensitivity and 75.65% accuracy being achieved. For ergonomic reasons, the 
configuration with fewer EEG channels will enhance capacity to monitor fatigue 
as there is less set-up time required.

DOI: 10.1109/EMBC.2014.6943846
PMID: 25570210 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1676. Annu Int Conf IEEE Eng Med Biol Soc. 2014;2014:1760-4. doi: 
10.1109/EMBC.2014.6943949.

Ambient intelligence might support increased longevity.

Noury N.

Several technologies entered our homes to change our lives. First electricity 
brought light and comfort, now communication technologies are transforming our 
living place into a connected place allowing new services to be invented, 
comfort, security, wellness and health services. The ICTs in homes can now help 
prolonge our longevity.

DOI: 10.1109/EMBC.2014.6943949
PMID: 25570317 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1677. Annu Int Conf IEEE Eng Med Biol Soc. 2014;2014:2472-5. doi: 
10.1109/EMBC.2014.6944123.

Screening for pre-diabetes using support vector machine model.

Chung JW, Kim WJ, Choi SB, Park JS, Kim DW.

The global prevalence of diabetes is rapidly increasing. Studies support 
screening and interventions for pre-diabetes, which results in serious 
complications and diabetes. This study aimed at developing an intelligence-based 
screening model for pre-diabetes that could assist with decreasing the 
prevalence of diabetes through early identification and subsequent 
interventions. Data from the Korean National Health and Nutrition Examination 
Survey (KNHANES) were used, excluding subjects with diabetes. The KNHANES 2010 
data (n = 4,685) were used for training and internal validation, while data from 
KNHANES 2011 (n = 4,566) were used for external validation. We developed a model 
to screen for pre-diabetes using support vector machine (SVM), and performed a 
systematic evaluation of the SVM model using internal and external validation. 
We compared the performance of the SVM model with that of a screening score 
model based on logistic regression analysis for pre-diabetes that had been 
developed previously. Backward elimination logistic regression resulted in 
associations between pre-diabetes and age, sex, waist circumference, body mass 
index, alcohol intake, family history of diabetes, and hypertension. The areas 
under the curves (AUCs) for the SVM model in the internal and external datasets 
were 0.761 and 0.731, respectively, while the AUCs for the screening score model 
were 0.734 and 0.712, respectively. The SVM model developed in this study 
performed better than the screening score model that had been developed 
previously and may be more effective for pre-diabetes screening.

DOI: 10.1109/EMBC.2014.6944123
PMID: 25570491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1678. Annu Int Conf IEEE Eng Med Biol Soc. 2014;2014:3468-71. doi: 
10.1109/EMBC.2014.6944369.

Prototype early warning system for heart disease detection using Android 
Application.

Zennifa F, Fitrilina, Kamil H, Iramina K.

Heart Disease affects approximately 70 million people worldwide where most 
people do not even know the symptoms. This research examines the prototype of 
early warning system for heart disease by android application. It aims to 
facilitate users to early detect heart disease which can be used independently. 
To build the application in android phone, variable centered intelligence rule 
system (VCIRS) as decision makers and pulse sensor - Arduino as heart rate 
detector were applied in this study. Moreover, in Arduino, the heart rate will 
become an input for symptoms in Android Application. The output of this system 
is the conclusion statement of users diagnosed with either coronary heart 
disease, hypertension heart disease, rheumatic heart disease or do not get any 
kind of heart disease. The result of diagnosis followed by analysis of the value 
of usage variable rate (VUR) rule usage rate (RUR) and node usage rate (NUR) 
that shows the value of the rule that will increase when the symptoms frequently 
appear. This application was compared with the medical analysis from 35 cases of 
heart disease and it showed concordance between diagnosis from android 
application and expert diagnosis of the doctors.

DOI: 10.1109/EMBC.2014.6944369
PMID: 25570737 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1679. Annu Int Conf IEEE Eng Med Biol Soc. 2014;2014:4755-8. doi: 
10.1109/EMBC.2014.6944687.

A novel genome-wide polyadenylation sites recognition system based on condition 
random field.

Han J, Zhang S, Liu J, Liu R.

Polyadenylation including the cleavage of pre-mRNA and addition of a stretch of 
adenosines to the 3'-end is an essential step of pre-mRNA processing in 
eukayotes. The known regulatory role of polyadenylation in mRNA localization, 
stability, and translation and the emerging link between poly(A) and disease 
states underline the necessary to fully characterize polyadenylation sites. 
Several artificial intelligence methods have been proposed for poly(A) sites 
recognition. However, these methods are suitable to small subsets of genome 
sequences. It is necessary to propose a method for genome-wide recognition of 
poly(A) sites. Recent efforts have found a lot of poly(A) related factors on DNA 
level. Here, we proposed a novel genome-wide poly(A) recognition method based on 
the Condition Random Field (CRF) by integrating multiple features. Compared with 
the polya_svm (the most accurate program for prediction of poly(A) sites till 
date), our method had a higher performance with the area under ROC curve(0.8621 
versus 0.6796). The result suggests that our method is an effective method in 
genome wide poly(A) sites recognition.

DOI: 10.1109/EMBC.2014.6944687
PMID: 25571055 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1680. BMC Genomics. 2014;15 Suppl 7(Suppl 7):S4. doi: 10.1186/1471-2164-15-S7-S4. Epub 
2014 Oct 27.

SNPs selection using support vector regression and genetic algorithms in GWAS.

de Oliveira FC, Borges CC, Almeida FN, e Silva FF, da Silva Verneque R, da Silva 
MV, Arbex W.

INTRODUCTION: This paper proposes a new methodology to simultaneously select the 
most relevant SNPs markers for the characterization of any measurable phenotype 
described by a continuous variable using Support Vector Regression with Pearson 
Universal kernel as fitness function of a binary genetic algorithm. The proposed 
methodology is multi-attribute towards considering several markers 
simultaneously to explain the phenotype and is based jointly on statistical 
tools, machine learning and computational intelligence.
RESULTS: The suggested method has shown potential in the simulated database 1, 
with additive effects only, and real database. In this simulated database, with 
a total of 1,000 markers, and 7 with major effect on the phenotype and the other 
993 SNPs representing the noise, the method identified 21 markers. Of this 
total, 5 are relevant SNPs between the 7 but 16 are false positives. In real 
database, initially with 50,752 SNPs, we have reduced to 3,073 markers, 
increasing the accuracy of the model. In the simulated database 2, with additive 
effects and interactions (epistasis), the proposed method matched to the 
methodology most commonly used in GWAS.
CONCLUSIONS: The method suggested in this paper demonstrates the effectiveness 
in explaining the real phenotype (PTA for milk), because with the application of 
the wrapper based on genetic algorithm and Support Vector Regression with 
Pearson Universal, many redundant markers were eliminated, increasing the 
prediction and accuracy of the model on the real database without quality 
control filters. The PUK demonstrated that it can replicate the performance of 
linear and RBF kernels.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2164-15-S7-S4
PMCID: PMC4243330
PMID: 25573332 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1681. Comput Math Methods Med. 2014;2014:713818. doi: 10.1155/2014/713818. Epub 2014 
Dec 9.

Feature selection in classification of eye movements using electrooculography 
for activity recognition.

Mala S(1), Latha K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Anna University, BIT Campus, 
Tiruchirappalli, Tamil Nadu 620 024, India.

Activity recognition is needed in different requisition, for example, 
reconnaissance system, patient monitoring, and human-computer interfaces. 
Feature selection plays an important role in activity recognition, data mining, 
and machine learning. In selecting subset of features, an efficient evolutionary 
algorithm Differential Evolution (DE), a very efficient optimizer, is used for 
finding informative features from eye movements using electrooculography (EOG). 
Many researchers use EOG signals in human-computer interactions with various 
computational intelligence methods to analyze eye movements. The proposed system 
involves analysis of EOG signals using clearness based features, minimum 
redundancy maximum relevance features, and Differential Evolution based 
features. This work concentrates more on the feature selection algorithm based 
on DE in order to improve the classification for faultless activity recognition.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/713818
PMCID: PMC4276354
PMID: 25574185 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1682. Int J Proteomics. 2014;2014:845479. doi: 10.1155/2014/845479. Epub 2014 Dec 11.

A survey of computational intelligence techniques in protein function 
prediction.

Tiwari AK(1), Srivastava R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Computer Science & Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology 
(BHU), Varanasi 221005, India.

During the past, there was a massive growth of knowledge of unknown proteins 
with the advancement of high throughput microarray technologies. Protein 
function prediction is the most challenging problem in bioinformatics. In the 
past, the homology based approaches were used to predict the protein function, 
but they failed when a new protein was different from the previous one. 
Therefore, to alleviate the problems associated with homology based traditional 
approaches, numerous computational intelligence techniques have been proposed in 
the recent past. This paper presents a state-of-the-art comprehensive review of 
various computational intelligence techniques for protein function predictions 
using sequence, structure, protein-protein interaction network, and gene 
expression data used in wide areas of applications such as prediction of DNA and 
RNA binding sites, subcellular localization, enzyme functions, signal peptides, 
catalytic residues, nuclear/G-protein coupled receptors, membrane proteins, and 
pathway analysis from gene expression datasets. This paper also summarizes the 
result obtained by many researchers to solve these problems by using 
computational intelligence techniques with appropriate datasets to improve the 
prediction performance. The summary shows that ensemble classifiers and 
integration of multiple heterogeneous data are useful for protein function 
prediction.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/845479
PMCID: PMC4276698
PMID: 25574395


1683. Forensic Sci Int. 2015 Mar;248:15-32. doi: 10.1016/j.forsciint.2014.11.015. Epub 
2014 Dec 17.

Forensic intelligence for medicine anti-counterfeiting.

Dégardin K(1), Roggo Y(2), Margot P(3).

Author information:
(1)F Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, Bldg 250 Room 3.504, Wurmisweg, 4303 Kaiseraugst, 
Switzerland. Electronic address: klara.degardin@roche.com.
(2)F Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, Bldg 250 Room 3.504, Wurmisweg, 4303 Kaiseraugst, 
Switzerland. Electronic address: yves.roggo@roche.com.
(3)Institute of Forensic Science, School of criminal Sciences, University of 
Lausanne, Batochimie, 1015 Lausanne, Switzerland. Electronic address: 
pierre.margot@unil.ch.

Medicine counterfeiting is a crime that has increased in recent years and now 
involves the whole world. Health and economic repercussions have led 
pharmaceutical industries and agencies to develop many measures to protect 
genuine medicines and differentiate them from counterfeits. Detecting 
counterfeit is chemically relatively simple for the specialists, but much more 
information can be gained from the analyses in a forensic intelligence 
perspective. Analytical data can feed criminal investigation and law enforcement 
by detecting and understanding the criminal phenomenon. Profiling seizures using 
chemical and packaging data constitutes a strong way to detect organised 
production and industrialised forms of criminality, and is the focus of this 
paper. Thirty-three seizures of a commonly counterfeited type of capsule have 
been studied. The results of the packaging and chemical analyses were gathered 
within an organised database. Strong linkage was found between the seizures at 
the different production steps, indicating the presence of a main counterfeit 
network dominating the market. The interpretation of the links with 
circumstantial data provided information about the production and the 
distribution of counterfeits coming from this network. This forensic 
intelligence perspective has the potential to be generalised to other types of 
products. This may be the only reliable approach to help the understanding of 
the organised crime phenomenon behind counterfeiting and to enable efficient 
strategic and operational decision making in an attempt to dismantle counterfeit 
network.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.forsciint.2014.11.015
PMID: 25576676 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1684. Sci Justice. 2015 Jan;55(1):2-9. doi: 10.1016/j.scijus.2014.08.006. Epub 2014 
Oct 5.

A review of some recent studies on the stable isotope profiling of 
methylamphetamine: Is it a useful adjunct to conventional chemical profiling?

Collins M(1), Salouros H(2).

Author information:
(1)National Measurement Institute, Riverside Corporate Park, North Ryde, Sydney, 
Australia. Electronic address: michael.collins@measurement.gov.au.
(2)National Measurement Institute, Riverside Corporate Park, North Ryde, Sydney, 
Australia.

This paper reviews a body of work published by the authors over a number of 
years aimed at providing a complementary "signature" to conventional chemical 
profiling of methylamphetamine. The work, beginning in 2009, was undertaken 
because of the changing nature of clandestine methylamphetamine manufacture 
which has seen a dramatic rise in production and a major shift to a higher 
quality product. As manufacturing methods changed and methylamphetamine purity 
increased some conventional drug profiling techniques became less useful as an 
intelligence tool. For instance, the value of the organic impurity profile, a 
mainstay of conventional profiling, decreases as there are fewer impurities 
present in seized samples. However, whilst many seizures may contain less 
conventional chemical intelligence another property of the methylamphetamine 
molecule is always available, i.e. the light element stable isotope ratios. The 
stable isotope ratios of carbon, hydrogen and nitrogen are an integral part of 
the methylamphetamine molecule itself. This review describes previous work by 
the authors and by researchers in other national laboratories to investigate and 
implement the use of stable isotope ratios as an everyday methylamphetamine 
profiling tool. It also looks at how powerful this technique can be when used to 
compare samples from different seizures.

Crown Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scijus.2014.08.006
PMID: 25577001


1685. Alcohol Clin Exp Res. 2014 Dec;38(12):2998-3007. doi: 10.1111/acer.12566.

Social cognition deficits and associations with drinking history in alcoholic 
men and women.

Valmas MM(1), Mosher Ruiz S, Gansler DA, Sawyer KS, Oscar-Berman M.

Author information:
(1)Psychology Research Service , VA Boston Healthcare System, Boston, 
Massachusetts; Department of Psychology , Suffolk University, Boston, 
Massachusetts; Department of Anatomy & Neurobiology , Boston University School 
of Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts.

BACKGROUND: Previous studies have demonstrated the presence of a social 
cognition factor as an element of general cognition in healthy control and 
clinical populations. Recently developed measures of social cognition include 
the social perception and faces subtests of the Wechsler Advanced Clinical 
Solutions (ACS) Social Cognition module. While these measures have been 
validated on various clinical samples, they have not been studied in alcoholics. 
Alcoholism has been associated with emotional abnormalities and diminished 
social cognitive functioning as well as neuropathology of brain areas underlying 
social processing abilities. We used the ACS Social Perception and Faces 
subtests to assess alcoholism-related impairments in social cognition.
METHODS: Social cognitive functioning was assessed in 77 abstinent alcoholic 
individuals (37 women) and 59 nonalcoholic control participants (29 women), 
using measures of the ACS Social Cognition module and subtests of the Wechsler 
Adult Intelligence Scale-Fourth Edition (WAIS-IV) that contain a social 
cognition component (Picture Completion and Comprehension). Group and gender 
differences in ACS and WAIS-IV performance were assessed, as well as 
relationships between measures of alcoholism severity and social cognitive 
functioning.
RESULTS: Alcoholics performed significantly worse than nonalcoholics on the ACS 
measures of Affect Naming and Faces Content. Alcoholic men were impaired 
relative to alcoholic women on Prosody Face Matching and Faces Content scores. 
Among alcoholics, longer durations of heavy drinking were associated with poorer 
performance on Affect Naming, and a greater number of daily drinks were 
associated with lower Prosody Face Matching performance. For alcoholic women, a 
longer duration of abstinence was associated with better performance on Affect 
Naming.
CONCLUSIONS: Alcoholic men and women showed different patterns of associations 
between alcoholism indices and clinically validated social cognition 
assessments. These findings extend into the social cognition domain, previous 
literature demonstrating the presence of cognitive deficits in alcoholism, their 
association with alcoholism severity, and variability by gender. Moreover, 
because impairments in social cognition can persist despite extended abstinence, 
they have important implications for relapse prevention.

Copyright © 2015 by the Research Society on Alcoholism.

DOI: 10.1111/acer.12566
PMCID: PMC4293081
PMID: 25581654 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1686. Front Surg. 2014 Oct 20;1:40. doi: 10.3389/fsurg.2014.00040. eCollection 2014.

Applying evidence-based medicine principles to hip fracture management.

Bernstein J(1), Morshed S(2), Helfet DL(3), Bhandari M(4), Ahn J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, University of Pennsylvania , Philadelphia, 
PA , USA.
(2)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, University of California San Francisco , 
San Francisco, CA , USA.
(3)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Hospital for Special Surgery , New York, 
NY , USA.
(4)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, McMaster University , Hamilton, ON , 
Canada.

Bone has the capacity to regenerate and not scar after injury - sometimes 
leaving behind no evidence at all of a prior fracture. As surgeons capable of 
facilitating such healing, it becomes our responsibility to help choose a 
treatment that minimizes functional deficits and residual symptoms. And in the 
case of the geriatric hip fracture, we have seen the accumulation of a vast 
amount of evidence to help guide us. The best method we currently have for 
selecting treatment plans is by the practice of evidence-based medicine. 
According to the now accepted hierarchy, the best is called Level I evidence 
(e.g., well performed randomized controlled trials) - but this evidence is best 
only if it is available and appropriate. Lower forms of accepted evidence 
include cohort studies, case control studies, case series, and case reports, and 
last, expert opinion - all of which can be potentially instructive. The hallmark 
of evidence-based treatment is not so much the reliance on evidence in general, 
but to use the best available evidence relative to the particular patient, the 
clinical setting and surgeon experience. Correctly applied, varying forms of 
evidence each have a role in aiding surgeons offer appropriate care for their 
patients - to help them best fix the fracture.

DOI: 10.3389/fsurg.2014.00040
PMCID: PMC4286989
PMID: 25593964


1687. Front Surg. 2015 Jan 5;1:50. doi: 10.3389/fsurg.2014.00050. eCollection 2014.

Immunohistochemistry - microarray analysis of patients with peritoneal 
metastases of appendiceal or colorectal origin.

Green DE(1), Jayakrishnan TT(1), Hwang M(1), Pappas SG(2), Gamblin TC(1), Turaga 
KK(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Surgical Oncology, Department of Surgery, Medical College of 
Wisconsin , Milwaukee, WI , USA.
(2)Division of Surgical Oncology, Department of Surgery, Loyola University 
Medical Center , Maywood, IL , USA.

BACKGROUND: The value of immunohistochemistry (IHC)-microarray analysis of 
pathological specimens in the management of patients is controversial, although 
preliminary data suggest potential benefit. We describe the characteristics of 
patients undergoing a commercially available IHC-microarray method in patients 
with peritoneal metastases (PM) and the feasibility of this technique in this 
population.
METHODS: We retrospectively analyzed consecutive patients with pathologically 
confirmed PM from appendiceal or colorectal primary who underwent Caris 
Molecular Intelligence(™) testing. IHC, microarray, FISH, and mutational 
analysis were included and stratified by Peritoneal Carcinomatosis Index (PCI) 
score, histology, and treatment characteristics. Statistical analysis was 
performed using non-parametric tests.
RESULTS: Our study included 5 patients with appendiceal and 11 with colorectal 
PM. The median age of patients was 51 (IQR 39-65) years, with 11 (68%) female. 
The median PCI score of the patients was 17 (IQR 10-25). Hyperthermic 
intra-peritoneal chemoperfusion was performed in 4 (80%) patients with 
appendiceal primary tumors and 4 (36%) with colorectal primary. KRAS mutations 
were encountered in 40% of appendiceal vs. 30% colorectal tumors, while BRAF 
mutations were seen in 40% of colorectal PM and none of the patients with 
appendiceal PM (p = 0.06). IHC biomarker expression was not significantly 
different between the two primaries. Sufficient tumor for microarray analysis 
was found in 44% (n = 7) patients, which was not associated with previous use of 
chemotherapy (p > 0.20 for 5-FU/LV, Irinotecan and Oxaliplatin).
CONCLUSION: In a small sample of patients with PM, the feasibility and results 
of IHC-microarray staining based on a commercially available test is reported. 
The apparent high incidence of the BRAF mutation in patients with PM may 
potentially offer opportunities for novel therapeutics and suggest that 
IHC-microarray is a method that can be used in this population.

DOI: 10.3389/fsurg.2014.00050
PMCID: PMC4286965
PMID: 25593974


1688. Health Serv Manage Res. 2014 Feb-Jun;27(1-2):22-32. doi: 
10.1177/0951484814546958. Epub 2014 Aug 26.

Leadership in academic health centers in the US: a review of the role and some 
recommendations.

Weil TP(1).

Author information:
(1)Bedford Health Associates, Inc, Management Consultants for Health and 
Hospital Services, Katonah, NY, and Asheville, NC, USA Tpweil@aol.com.

The leadership of the US's most complex academic health centers (AHCs)/medical 
centers requires individuals who possess a high level of clinical, 
organizational, managerial, and interpersonal skills. This paper first outlines 
the major attributes desired in a dean/vice president of health affairs before 
then summarizing the educational opportunities now generally available to train 
for such leadership and management roles. For the most part, the masters in 
health administration (MHA), the traditional MBA, and the numerous alternatives 
primarily available at universities are considered far too general and too 
lacking in emotional intelligence tutoring to be particularly relevant for those 
who aspire to these most senior leadership positions. More appropriate 
educational options for these roles are discussed: (a) the in-house leadership 
and management programs now underway at some AHCs for those selected early on in 
their career for future executive-type roles as well as for those who are 
appointed later on to a chair, directorship or similar position; and (b) a more 
controversial approach of potentially establishing at one or a few universities, 
a mid-career, professional program (a maximum of 12 months and therefore, being 
completed in less time than an MBA) leading to a masters degree in academic 
health center administration (MHCA) for those who aspire to fill a senior AHC 
leadership position. The proposed curriculum as outlined herein might be along 
the lines of some carefully designed masters level on-line, self-teaching 
modules for the more technical subjects, yet vigorously emphasizing 
integrate-type courses focused on enhancing personal and professional team 
building and leadership skills.

© The Author(s) 2014 Reprints and permissions: 
sagepub.co.uk/journalsPermissions.nav.

DOI: 10.1177/0951484814546958
PMID: 25595014 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1689. JMIR Med Inform. 2014 Aug 6;2(2):e16. doi: 10.2196/medinform.3590.

Using business intelligence to analyze and share health system infrastructure 
data in a rural health authority.

Haque W(1), Urquhart B, Berg E, Dhanoa R.

Author information:
(1)University of Northern British Columbia, Department of Computer Science and 
School of Business, Prince George, BC, Canada. waqar.haque@unbc.ca.

BACKGROUND: Health care organizations gather large volumes of data, which has 
been traditionally stored in legacy formats making it difficult to analyze or 
use effectively. Though recent government-funded initiatives have improved the 
situation, the quality of most existing data is poor, suffers from 
inconsistencies, and lacks integrity. Generating reports from such data is 
generally not considered feasible due to extensive labor, lack of reliability, 
and time constraints. Advanced data analytics is one way of extracting useful 
information from such data.
OBJECTIVE: The intent of this study was to propose how Business Intelligence 
(BI) techniques can be applied to health system infrastructure data in order to 
make this information more accessible and comprehensible for a broader group of 
people.
METHODS: An integration process was developed to cleanse and integrate data from 
disparate sources into a data warehouse. An Online Analytical Processing (OLAP) 
cube was then built to allow slicing along multiple dimensions determined by 
various key performance indicators (KPIs), representing population and patient 
profiles, case mix groups, and healthy community indicators. The use of mapping 
tools, customized shape files, and embedded objects further augment the 
navigation. Finally, Web forms provide a mechanism for remote uploading of data 
and transparent processing of the cube. For privileged information, access 
controls were implemented.
RESULTS: Data visualization has eliminated tedious analysis through legacy 
reports and provided a mechanism for optimally aligning resources with needs. 
Stakeholders are able to visualize KPIs on a main dashboard, slice-and-dice 
data, generate ad hoc reports, and quickly find the desired information. In 
addition, comparison, availability, and service level reports can also be 
generated on demand. All reports can be drilled down for navigation at a finer 
granularity.
CONCLUSIONS: We have demonstrated how BI techniques and tools can be used in the 
health care environment to make informed decisions with reference to resource 
allocation and enhancement of the quality of patient care. The data can be 
uploaded immediately upon collection, thus keeping reports current. The modular 
design can be expanded to add new datasets such as for smoking rates, teen 
pregnancies, human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) rates, immunization coverage, 
and vital statistical summaries.

DOI: 10.2196/medinform.3590
PMCID: PMC4288065
PMID: 25599727

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: None declared.


1690. JMIR Med Inform. 2014 Jul 8;2(2):e8. doi: 10.2196/medinform.2984.

A validation of an intelligent decision-making support system for the nutrition 
diagnosis of bariatric surgery patients.

Cruz MR(1), Martins C, Dias J, Pinto JS.

Author information:
(1)Pontifical Catholic University of Paraná (PUCPR), Curitiba, Brazil. 
nutriclinmagda@bol.com.br.

BACKGROUND: Bariatric surgery is an important method for treatment of morbid 
obesity. It is known that significant nutritional deficiencies might occur after 
surgery, such as, calorie-protein malnutrition, iron deficiency anemia, and lack 
of vitamin B12, thiamine, and folic acid.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of our study was to validate a computerized intelligent 
decision support system that suggests nutritional diagnoses of patients 
submitted to bariatric surgery.
METHODS: There were fifteen clinical cases that were developed and sent to three 
dietitians in order to evaluate and define a nutritional diagnosis. After this 
step, the cases were sent to four bariatric surgery expert dietitians who were 
aiming to collaborate on a gold standard. The nutritional diagnosis was to be 
defined individually, and any disagreements were solved through a consensus. The 
final result was used as the gold standard. Bayesian networks were used to 
implement the system, and database training was done with Shell Netica. For the 
system validation, a similar answer rate was calculated, as well as the 
specificity and sensibility. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves were 
projected to each nutritional diagnosis.
RESULTS: Among the four experts, the rate of similar answers found was 80% 
(48/60) to 93% (56/60), depending on the nutritional diagnosis. The rate of 
similar answers of the system, compared to the gold standard, was 100% (60/60). 
The system sensibility and specificity were 95.0%. The ROC curves projection 
showed that the system was able to represent the expert knowledge (gold 
standard), and to help them in their daily tasks.
CONCLUSIONS: The system that was developed was validated to be used by health 
care professionals for decision-making support in their nutritional diagnosis of 
patients submitted to bariatric surgery.

DOI: 10.2196/medinform.2984
PMCID: PMC4288110
PMID: 25601419

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: None declared.


1691. Am J Psychol. 2014 Winter;127(4):431-45. doi: 10.5406/amerjpsyc.127.4.0431.

Emotions in the classroom: the role of teachers' emotional intelligence ability 
in predicting students' achievement.

Curci A(1), Lanciano T, Soleti E.

Author information:
(1)University of Bari, Department of Education, Psychology, Communication, 
Italy. antonietta.curci@uniba.it

School days can be a difficult time, especially when students are faced with 
subjects that require motivational investment along with cognitive effort, such 
as mathematics and sciences. In the present study, we investigated the effects 
of teachers' emotional intelligence (El) ability, self-efficacy, and emotional 
states and students' self-esteem, perceptions of ability, and metacognitive 
beliefs in predicting school achievement. We hypothesized that the level of 
teacher EI ability would moderate the impact of students' self-perceptions and 
beliefs about their achievements in mathematics and sciences. Students from 
Italian junior high schools (N = 338) and their math teachers (N = 12) were 
involved in the study, and a multilevel approach was used. Findings showed that 
teachers' EI has a positive role in promoting students' achievement, by 
enhancing the effects of students' self-perceptions of ability and 
self-esteem.These results have implications for the implementation of 
intervention programs on the emotional, motivational, and metacognitive 
correlates of studying and learning behavior.

DOI: 10.5406/amerjpsyc.127.4.0431
PMID: 25603580 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1692. Am J Psychol. 2014 Winter;127(4):447-61. doi: 10.5406/amerjpsyc.127.4.0447.

Incremental validity of emotional intelligence ability in predicting academic 
achievement.

Lanciano T(1), Curci A.

Author information:
(1)University of Bari, Italy. t.lanciano@psico.uniba.it

We tested the incremental validity of an ability measure of emotional 
intelligence (El) in predicting academic achievement in undergraduate students, 
controlling for cognitive abilities and personality traits. Academic achievement 
has been conceptualized in terms of the number of exams, grade point average, 
and study time taken to prepare for each exam. Additionally, gender differences 
were taken into account in these relationships. Participants filled in the 
Mayer-Salovey-Caruso Emotional Intelligence Test (MSCEIT), the Raven's Advanced 
Progressive Matrices, the reduced version of the Eysenck Personality 
Questionnaire, and academic achievement measures. Results showed that El 
abilities were positively related to academic achievement indices, such as the 
number of exams and grade point average; total El ability and the Perceiving 
branch were negatively associated with the study time spent preparing for exams. 
Furthermore, El ability adds a percentage of incremental variance with respect 
to cognitive ability and personality variables in explaining scholastic success. 
The magnitude of the associations between El abilities and academic achievement 
measures was generally higher for men than for women. Jointly considered, the 
present findings support the incremental validity of the MSCEIT and provide 
positive indications of the importance of El in students' academic development. 
The helpfulness of El training in the context of academic institutions is 
discussed.

DOI: 10.5406/amerjpsyc.127.4.0447
PMID: 25603581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1693. Meta Gene. 2014 Jan 31;2:160-3. doi: 10.1016/j.mgene.2013.10.013. eCollection 
2014 Dec.

Is microcephaly a so-far unrecognized feature of XYY syndrome?

Nguyen-Minh S(1), Bührer C(2), Hübner C(1), Kaindl AM(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Neurology, Charité - Universitätsmedizin Berlin, 
Campus Virchow-Klinikum, Augustenburger Platz 1, 13353 Berlin, Germany.
(2)Department of Neonatology, Charité - Universitätsmedizin Berlin, 
Augustenburger Platz 1, 13353 Berlin, Germany.
(3)Department of Pediatric Neurology, Charité - Universitätsmedizin Berlin, 
Campus Virchow-Klinikum, Augustenburger Platz 1, 13353 Berlin, Germany ; SPZ 
Pediatric Neurology, Charité - Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Campus 
Virchow-Klinikum, Augustenburger Platz 1, 13353 Berlin, Germany ; Institute of 
Neuroanatomy and Cell Biology, Charité - Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Campus 
Mitte, Charitéplatz 1, 10115 Berlin, Germany.

•47,XYY syndrome is a frequent sex chromosome aneuploidy.•Overview of 
characteristic symptoms of 47,XXY•First report of 47,XYY and microcephaly in a 
preterm child•Brief differential diagnosis of microcephaly.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mgene.2013.10.013
PMCID: PMC4287790
PMID: 25606399


1694. Meta Gene. 2014 Nov 16;2:844-53. doi: 10.1016/j.mgene.2014.10.006. eCollection 
2014 Dec.

Genes and personality characteristics: Possible association of the genetic 
background with intelligence and decision making in 830 Caucasian Greek 
subjects.

Marinos G(1), Naziris N(1), Limnaios SA(2), Drakoulis N(1).

Author information:
(1)National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, School of Health Sciences, 
Faculty of Pharmacy, Greece.
(2)Hellenic Police, Forensic Science Division/Subdivision of Biological & 
Biochemical Examination & Analysis, Athens, Greece.

It is well known that intelligence consists of a variety of interactional and 
cognitive skills and abilities (e.g. tradecraft; critical and divergent 
thinking; perception of foreign information). Decision making is defined as the 
conscious choice between given options, relating to a problem. Both genetic 
background and environment comprise key elements for personality characteristics 
of the human being. The aim of this study is to determine the frequency 
distribution of rs324420, rs1800497, rs363050, rs6265, rs1328674 polymorphisms 
known to be involved in individual personality characteristics, in 830 Greek 
Subjects. The study is independent from direct clinical measurements (e.g. IQ 
measurements; physiological tests). The population of the volunteers is 
described, based on genotype, sex, with the respective gene frequencies, 
including the Minor Allele Frequency (MAF). A potential influence of the 
volunteer gender with the above characteristics (based on genotypes and alleles) 
is examined and finally, volunteers are classified as follows: A volunteer 
receives + 1, for each genotype/allele, which enhances his intelligence or his 
decision-making. In contrast, he receives - 1, for each genotype/allele, which 
relegates the individual characteristic. No statistically significant 
gender-characteristics correlation is observed. According to their genetic 
profile, a rate of 92.5%, of the volunteers may be characterized by prudence and 
temperance of thought, with only a small proportion of them (7.5%) may be 
classified as genetically spontaneous and adventurous. Regarding intelligence, 
the study population may lay around average and a little above it, at a rate of 
96.3%, while the edges of the scale suggest only a 0.5% of the volunteers, who, 
although the "smartest", somehow seem to lack prudence. In conclusion, 
individuals with low cognitive ability may be more prudent than others and vice 
versa, while the "smartest" ones tend to be more risky, in decision-making. 
Therefore, intelligence and decision-making may, after all, be less linked to 
each other than expected.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mgene.2014.10.006
PMCID: PMC4287817
PMID: 25606466


1695. J Korean Acad Nurs. 2014 Dec;44(6):682-96. doi: 10.4040/jkan.2014.44.6.682.

[Development and effects of emotional intelligence program for undergraduate 
nursing students: mixed methods research].

[Article in Korean]

Lee OS(1), Gu MO(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nursing, Changshin University, Changwon, Korea.
(2)College of Nursing; Gerontological Health Research Center, Institute of 
Health Sciences, Gyeongsang National University, Jinju, Korea. mogu@gnu.ac.kr.

PURPOSE: This study was conducted to develop and test the effects of an 
emotional intelligence program for undergraduate nursing students.
METHODS: The study design was a mixed method research. Participants were 36 
nursing students (intervention group: 17, control group: 19). The emotional 
intelligence program was provided for 4 weeks (8 sessions, 20 hours). Data were 
collected between August 6 and October 4, 2013. Quantitative data were analyzed 
using Chi-square, Fisher's exact test, t-test, repeated measure ANOVA, and 
paired t-test with SPSS/WIN 18.0. Qualitative data were analyzed using content 
analysis.
RESULTS: Quantitative results showed that emotional intelligence, communication 
skills, resilience, stress coping strategy, and clinical competence were 
significantly better in the experimental group compared to the control group. 
According to the qualitative results, the nursing students experienced 
improvement in emotional intelligence, interpersonal relationships, and 
empowerment, as well as a reduction in clinical practice stress after 
participation in the emotional intelligence program.
CONCLUSION: Study findings indicate that the emotional intelligence program for 
undergraduate nursing students is effective and can be recommended as an 
intervention for improving the clinical competence of undergraduate students in 
a nursing curriculum.

DOI: 10.4040/jkan.2014.44.6.682
PMID: 25608546 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1696. Mol Genet Genomic Med. 2014 Nov;2(6):512-21. doi: 10.1002/mgg3.105. Epub 2014 
Aug 18.

A common cognitive, psychiatric, and dysmorphic phenotype in carriers of NRXN1 
deletion.

Viñas-Jornet M(1), Esteba-Castillo S(2), Gabau E(3), Ribas-Vidal N(2), Baena 
N(3), San J(2), Ruiz A(3), Coll MD(4), Novell R(2), Guitart M(3).

Author information:
(1)Laboratori de Genètica, UDIAT-Centre Diagnòstic, Corporació Sanitària Parc 
Taulí, Institut Universitari Parc Tauli-UAB Sabadell, Spain ; Unitat de Biologia 
Cellular, Facultat de Biociències, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona Bellaterra, 
Spain.
(2)Servei Especialitzat de Salut Mental i Discapacitat Intellectual, Institut 
Asistència Sanitària (IAS), Parc Hospitalari Martí i Julià Girona, Spain.
(3)Laboratori de Genètica, UDIAT-Centre Diagnòstic, Corporació Sanitària Parc 
Taulí, Institut Universitari Parc Tauli-UAB Sabadell, Spain.
(4)Unitat de Biologia Cellular, Facultat de Biociències, Universitat Autònoma de 
Barcelona Bellaterra, Spain.

Deletions in the 2p16.3 region that includes the neurexin (NRXN1) gene are 
associated with intellectual disability and various psychiatric disorders, in 
particular, autism and schizophrenia. We present three unrelated patients, two 
adults and one child, in whom we identified an intragenic 2p16.3 deletion within 
the NRXN1 gene using an oligonucleotide comparative genomic hybridization array. 
The three patients presented dual diagnosis that consisted of mild intellectual 
disability and autism and bipolar disorder. Also, they all shared a dysmorphic 
phenotype characterized by a long face, deep set eyes, and prominent premaxilla. 
Genetic analysis of family members showed two inherited deletions. A 
comprehensive neuropsychological examination of the 2p16.3 deletion carriers 
revealed the same phenotype, characterized by anxiety disorder, borderline 
intelligence, and dysexecutive syndrome. The cognitive pattern of dysexecutive 
syndrome with poor working memory and reduced attention switching, mental 
flexibility, and verbal fluency was the same than those of the adult probands. 
We suggest that in addition to intellectual disability and psychiatric disease, 
NRXN1 deletion is a risk factor for a characteristic cognitive and dysmorphic 
profile. The new cognitive phenotype found in the 2p16.3 deletion carriers 
suggests that 2p16.3 deletions might have a wide variable expressivity instead 
of incomplete penetrance.

DOI: 10.1002/mgg3.105
PMCID: PMC4303221
PMID: 25614873


1697. Epilepsy Res. 2015 Feb;110:39-48. doi: 10.1016/j.eplepsyres.2014.11.014. Epub 
2014 Nov 24.

Selective medial temporal volume reduction in the hippocampus of patients with 
idiopathic generalized tonic-clonic seizures.

Zhou SY(1), Tong L(2), Song F(3), Hong XJ(4), Sun HF(5), Chang H(6), Xing HJ(7), 
Li ZY(8), Dong CB(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Dalian Medical University, Dalian, China. 
Electronic address: zhoushiyu@dlmedu.edu.cn.
(2)Department of Neurology, First Affiliated Hospital of Dalian Medical 
University, No. 222 of ZhongShan Road, 116011 Dalian, China; Department of 
Neurology, Yantai Municipal Hospital, Yantai, China. Electronic address: 
sdzy006@163.com.
(3)Department of Neurology, First Affiliated Hospital of Dalian Medical 
University, No. 222 of ZhongShan Road, 116011 Dalian, China. Electronic address: 
songfandalian@yahoo.com.cn.
(4)Department of Neurology, First Affiliated Hospital of Dalian Medical 
University, No. 222 of ZhongShan Road, 116011 Dalian, China. Electronic address: 
chinalpha@163.com.
(5)Department of Neurology, First Affiliated Hospital of Dalian Medical 
University, No. 222 of ZhongShan Road, 116011 Dalian, China. Electronic address: 
shf2006317@sohu.com.
(6)Department of Neurology, The Third People's Hospital of Dalian, Dalian, 
China. Electronic address: ada.learnworld@163.com.
(7)Department of Neurology, The Third People's Hospital of Dalian, Dalian, 
China. Electronic address: 53381626@qq.com.
(8)Department of Radiology, First Affiliated Hospital of Dalian Medical 
University, Dalian, China. Electronic address: zjy_lzy@126.com.
(9)Department of Neurology, First Affiliated Hospital of Dalian Medical 
University, No. 222 of ZhongShan Road, 116011 Dalian, China. Electronic address: 
chunbodong@dlmedu.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Different subtypes of idiopathic generalized epilepsy may indicate 
different mechanisms and outcomes, suggesting that it is necessary to use a 
'pure sample' of a single subtype.
METHODS: A volumetric study, in conjunction with cognition assessments, was 
performed in a pure sample of patients with idiopathic generalized tonic-clonic 
seizures (IGE-GTCS; 15 males and 15 females) matched with normal control 
subjects (15 males and 17 females). The volumetric measurements were focused on 
the hippocampus and its surrounding structures, including the amygdala, the 
parahippocampal gyrus, the entorhinal cortex and the perirhinal cortex. The 
Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Revised in China was administered to assess 
cognitive status.
RESULTS: A volume reduction was found only in the hippocampus, with a more 
severe effect on the left side than the right side. The total number and 
frequency of seizures had significant negative correlations with multiple 
cognitive measures. Furthermore, the hippocampal volume reduction was 
significantly correlated with some aspects of cognitive impairment.
CONCLUSION: These findings suggest that compared with the other medial temporal 
structures, the hippocampus may be more vulnerable to the neuropathology of 
IGE-GTCS. The observation that cognitive deterioration was correlated with an 
increased frequency and total number of seizures highlights the critical 
importance of preventing seizures from recurrence.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eplepsyres.2014.11.014
PMID: 25616454 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1698. Psychiatry Res. 2015 Mar 30;226(1):128-35. doi: 10.1016/j.psychres.2014.12.032. 
Epub 2014 Dec 30.

The impact of neuropsychological functioning and coping style on perceived 
stress in individuals with first-episode psychosis and healthy controls.

Allott KA(1), Rapado-Castro M(2), Proffitt TM(3), Bendall S(4), Garner B(5), 
Butselaar F(3), Markulev C(3), Phassouliotis C(6), McGorry PD(3), Wood SJ(7), 
Cotton SM(3), Phillips LJ(8).

Author information:
(1)Orygen, The National Centre of Excellence in Youth Mental Health; Centre for 
Youth Mental Health, The University of Melbourne, Parkville, Australia. 
Electronic address: kelly.allott@orygen.org.au.
(2)Orygen, The National Centre of Excellence in Youth Mental Health; Centre for 
Youth Mental Health, The University of Melbourne, Parkville, Australia; Child 
and Adolescent Psychiatry Department, Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria 
Gregorio Marañón, Hospital General Universitario Gregorio Marañón, CIBERSAM, 
Madrid, Spain; Melbourne Neuropsychiatry Centre, The University of Melbourne, 
Parkville, Australia.
(3)Orygen, The National Centre of Excellence in Youth Mental Health; Centre for 
Youth Mental Health, The University of Melbourne, Parkville, Australia.
(4)Orygen, The National Centre of Excellence in Youth Mental Health.
(5)Addictions Department, Institute of Psychiatry, King׳s College London, United 
Kingdom.
(6)Melbourne Neuropsychiatry Centre, The University of Melbourne, Parkville, 
Australia.
(7)Melbourne Neuropsychiatry Centre, The University of Melbourne, Parkville, 
Australia; School of Psychology, University of Birmingham, United Kingdom.
(8)Melbourne School of Psychological Sciences, The University of Melbourne, 
Parkville, Australia.

Stress is implicated in the development and course of psychotic illness, but the 
factors that influence stress levels are not well understood. The aim of this 
study was to examine the impact of neuropsychological functioning and coping 
styles on perceived stress in people with first-episode psychosis (FEP) and 
healthy controls (HC). Thirty-four minimally treated FEP patients from the Early 
Psychosis Prevention and Intervention Centre, Melbourne, Australia, and 26 HC 
participants from a similar demographic area participated in the study. 
Participants completed a comprehensive neuropsychological test battery as well 
as the Coping Inventory for Stressful Situations (task-, emotion- and 
avoidance-focussed coping styles) and Perceived Stress Scale (PSS). Linear 
regressions were used to determine the contribution of neuropsychological 
functioning and coping style to perceived stress in the two groups. In the FEP 
group, higher levels of emotion-focussed and lower levels of task-focussed 
coping were associated with elevated stress. Higher premorbid IQ and working 
memory were also associated with higher subjective stress. In the HC group, 
higher levels of emotion-focussed coping, and contrary to the FEP group, lower 
premorbid IQ, working memory and executive functioning, were associated with 
increased stress. Lower intellectual functioning may provide some protection 
against perceived stress in FEP.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2014.12.032
PMID: 25618467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1699. Int J Health Serv. 2014;44(3):615-25. doi: 10.2190/HS.44.3.j.

Failing ethics 101: psychologists, the U.S. military establishment, and human 
rights.

Boyd JW, LoCicero A, Malowney M, Aldis R, Marlin RP.

The American Psychological Association (APA) has long maintained a close, even 
symbiotic, relationship with the Department of Defense (DOD) and the Veterans 
Administration (VA). Herein we highlight these close ties and describe 
psychologists' participation in interrogations by U.S. military and intelligence 
entities. We then review the APA's statements about the permissibility of 
psychologist participation in the interrogation and torture of suspected 
terrorists. These issues are significant in and of themselves and because the VA 
and DOD have been described as "growth careers" for psychologists of the future 
(1). Additionally, the Health Care Personnel Delivery System allows the drafting 
of civilian clinical psychologists into military service even in the absence of 
a general draft. In light of psychologists' extensive involvement in the 
interrogation process of suspected terrorists, and the possibility that 
psychologists without prior military experience may be drafted, we wondered how 
much psychologists have been taught about their ethical duties should they find 
themselves in military settings. The results of our pilot study of U.S. 
psychology graduate students, which assessed their knowledge of military ethics, 
raise concerns that psychologists receive inadequate formal training in these 
matters. This may leave psychologists vulnerable to misinformation about proper 
ethical conduct in their future work.

DOI: 10.2190/HS.44.3.j
PMID: 25618992 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1700. J Ayurveda Integr Med. 2014 Oct-Dec;5(4):205-8. doi: 10.4103/0975-9476.146562.

Development and initial standardization of Ayurveda child personality inventory.

Suchitra SP(1), Jagan A(1), Nagendra HR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, SVAYSA, Yoga University, Bangalore, Karnataka, 
India.

BACKGROUND: Ayurveda inventories for prakriti (constitution) have been developed 
and validated for adults. Children, however, require different categories of 
quarter and questions, for example, to assess the intelligence, the questions 
can be related to their scholastic performances.
OBJECTIVE: To develop and standardize an inventory to assess the prakriti of the 
children, and to compare with Child Personality Questionnaire (CPQ).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A 135-item Ayurveda child personality inventory (ACPI) 
scale was developed on the basis of translation of Sanskrit verses describing 
vataja (A), pittaja (B), and kaphaja prakriti (C) characteristics and by taking 
the opinions of experts (ten Ayurveda experts and three psychologists). Study 
was carried out in Maxwell public school, Bangalore. The scale was administered 
on parents of children of the age group 6-12 years. CPQ was administered on 
children of the age group 8-12 years.
RESULTS: The ACPI was associated with excellent internal consistency. The 
Cronbach's alpha for A, B, and C scales were 0.77, 0.55, and 0.84, respectively, 
and the Split-half reliability scores were 0.66.0.39 and 0.84, respectively. 
Factor validity coefficient scores on each items was above 0.5. Scores on 
vataja, pittaja and kaphaja scales were inversely correlated. Items of V, P, and 
K scales showed significant correlation (values ranging from 0.39 to 0.84) with 
subscales of CPQ, which indicates that Eastern and Western psychology concept 
have good correspondence.
CONCLUSIONS: The prakrti of the children can be measured consistently by this 
instrument. Scores on V and P scale showed good correlation with the anxiety 
primary scale of CPQ.

DOI: 10.4103/0975-9476.146562
PMCID: PMC4296431
PMID: 25624693

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None declared.


1701. Eur Heart J. 2014 Dec 7;35(46):3240-1.

Anatomical intelligence is helping cardiologists with interventions and 
diagnoses.

Taylor J.

The virtual aortic root guides valve size decisions and navigation during TAVI, 
while 2D ultrasound images speed up LV function measurements.

PMID: 25629103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1702. Iran J Psychiatry. 2014 Apr;9(2):47-54.

Barkley's Parent Training Program, Working Memory Training and their Combination 
for Children with ADHD: Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder.

Hosainzadeh Maleki Z(1), Mashhadi A(2), Soltanifar A(3), Moharreri F(3), Ghanaei 
Ghamanabad A(2).

Author information:
(1)Tarbiat modares university,of Tehran, Iran.
(2)Ferdowsi university of Mashhad, Mashhad, Iran.
(3)Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences Research Center, Ibn-e-Sina Hospital, 
Faculty of Medicine, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of the current study was to examine the effectiveness of 
Barkley's parent training program, working memory training and the combination 
of these two interventions for children with Attention deficit hyperactivity 
disorder (ADHD).
METHODS: In this study, 36 participants with ADHD (aged 6 to 12 years) were 
selected by convenience sampling. Revision of the Swanson, Nolan and Pelham 
(SNAP) questionnaire (SNAP-IV), Child Behavior Checklist (CBCL) and clinical 
interviews were employed to diagnose ADHD. Wechsler Intelligence Scale for 
Children-Fourth Edition was also implemented. The participants were randomly 
assigned to the three intervention groups of Barkley's parent training program, 
working memory training and the combined group. SNAP-IV and CBCL were used as 
pre-tests and post-tests across all three groups. Data were analyzed using 
MANCOVA (SPSS version18).
RESULTS: There was a significant difference (p< 0.05) in the decline of 
attention deficit and hyperactivity /impulsivity symptoms between the combined 
treatment group and working memory training group and also between the combined 
treatment group and the parent training group in SNAP. In terms of attention 
problems (experience-based subscales) of CBCL, there was a significant 
difference (p< 0.001) between the combined treatment group and working memory 
training group. Furthermore, compared to the working memory training and parent 
training groups, the combined group demonstrated a significant decline (p< 0.01) 
in clinical symptoms of ADHD (based on DSM).
CONCLUSION: It was revealed that combined treatment in comparison with the other 
two methods suppressed the clinical symptoms of ADHD more significantly.

PMCID: PMC4300465
PMID: 25632280


1703. Intelligence. 2014 May-June;44:112-119. doi: 10.1016/j.intell.2014.03.008.

The role of cognitive versus emotional intelligence in Iowa Gambling Task 
performance: What's emotion got to do with it?

Webb CA(1), DelDonno S(1), Killgore WD(1).

Author information:
(1)Harvard Medical School - McLean Hospital, Department of Psychiatry, 115 Mill 
Street, Belmont, MA 02478, United States.

Debate persists regarding the relative role of cognitive versus emotional 
processes in driving successful performance on the widely used Iowa Gambling 
Task (IGT). From the time of its initial development, patterns of IGT 
performance were commonly interpreted as primarily reflecting implicit, 
emotion-based processes. Surprisingly, little research has tried to directly 
compare the extent to which measures tapping relevant cognitive versus emotional 
competencies predict IGT performance in the same study. The current 
investigation attempts to address this question by comparing patterns of 
associations between IGT performance, cognitive intelligence (Wechsler 
Abbreviated Scale of Intelligence; WASI) and three commonly employed measures of 
emotional intelligence (EI; Mayer-Salovey-Caruso Emotional Intelligence Test, 
MSCEIT; Bar-On Emotional Quotient Inventory, EQ-i; Self-Rated Emotional 
Intelligence Scale, SREIS). Results indicated that IGT performance was more 
strongly associated with cognitive, than emotional, intelligence. To the extent 
that the IGT indeed mimics "real-world" decision-making, our findings, coupled 
with the results of existing research, may highlight the role of deliberate, 
cognitive capacities over implicit, emotional processes in contributing to at 
least some domains of decision-making relevant to everyday life.

DOI: 10.1016/j.intell.2014.03.008
PMCID: PMC4307614
PMID: 25635149


1704. Am J Clin Nutr. 2015 Feb;101(2):326-36. doi: 10.3945/ajcn.114.095414. Epub 2014 
Dec 10.

Infant feeding effects on early neurocognitive development in Asian children.

Cai S(1), Pang WW(1), Low YL(1), Sim LW(1), Sam SC(1), Bruntraeger MB(1), Wong 
EQ(1), Fok D(1), Broekman BF(1), Singh L(1), Richmond J(1), Agarwal P(1), Qiu 
A(1), Saw SM(1), Yap F(1), Godfrey KM(1), Gluckman PD(1), Chong YS(1), Meaney 
MJ(1), Kramer MS(1), Rifkin-Graboi A(1); GUSTO Study Group.

Collaborators: Biswas A, Bong CL, Chan JK, Chan YH, Chee CY, Chen HY, Cheung YB, 
Chia A, Chinnadurai A, Chng CK, Chong MF, Chong SC, Chua MC, Ding CM, 
Finkelstein EA, Fortier M, Goh AE, Goh YT, Gooley JJ, Han WM, Hanson M, Henry 
CJ, Holbrook JD, Hsu CY, Inskip H, Kapur J, Kwek K, Lau IY, Lee BW, Lee YS, Lek 
N, Lim SB, Magiati I, Daniel LM, Ngo C, Niduvaje K, Quah BL, Rajadurai VS, Rauff 
M, Rebello SA, Shek LP, Sheppard A, Shuter B, Singh L, Soh SE, Stunkel W, Su LL, 
Tan KH, Teoh OH, Tint MT, van Bever HP, van Dam RM, Wong IB, Wong PC, Yeo GS.

Author information:
(1)From the Departments of Obstetrics and Gynecology (SC, WWP, DF, Y-SC, and 
MSK) and Psychological Medicine (BFPB), Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine; the 
Departments of Psychology (LS) and Biomedical Engineering and Clinical Imaging 
Research Centre (AQ); and the Saw Swee Hock School of Public Health (SMS), 
National University of Singapore, National University Health System, Singapore; 
the Abbott Nutrition Research and Development Asia-Pacific Center, Singapore 
(YLL); the Singapore Institute for Clinical Sciences, Agency for Science and 
Technology Research (ASTAR), Singapore (LWS, SCS, MBB, EQW, AQ, BFPB, PDG, Y-SC, 
MJM, and AR-G); the School of Psychology, University of New South Wales, Sydney, 
Australia (JR); the Departments of Neonatology (PA) and Pediatrics (FY), Kandang 
Kerbau Women's and Children's Hospital, Singapore; the Medical Research Council 
Lifecourse Epidemiology Unit and National Institute for Health Research 
Southampton Biomedical Research Centre, University of Southampton and University 
Hospital Southampton National Health Service Foundation Trust, Southampton, UK 
(KMG); Liggins Institute, University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand (PDG); 
and the Departments of Epidemiology, Biostatistics, and Occupational Health 
(MSK), Pediatrics (MSK), and Psychiatry and Neurology and Neurosurgery (MJM), 
McGill University, Montreal, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Breastfeeding has been shown to enhance global measures of 
intelligence in children. However, few studies have examined associations 
between breastfeeding and specific cognitive task performance in the first 2 y 
of life, particularly in an Asian population.
OBJECTIVE: We assessed associations between early infant feeding and detailed 
measures of cognitive development in the first 2 y of life in healthy Asian 
children born at term.
DESIGN: In a prospective cohort study, neurocognitive testing was performed in 
408 healthy children (aged 6, 18, and 24 mo) from uncomplicated pregnancies 
(i.e., birth weight >2500 and <4000 g, gestational age ≥37 wk, and 5-min Apgar 
score ≥9). Tests included memory (deferred imitation, relational binding, 
habituation) and attention tasks (visual expectation, auditory oddball) as well 
as the Bayley Scales of Infant and Toddler Development, Third Edition 
(BSID-III). Children were stratified into 3 groups (low, intermediate, and high) 
on the basis of breastfeeding duration and exclusivity.
RESULTS: After potential confounding variables were controlled for, significant 
associations and dose-response relations were observed for 4 of the 15 tests. 
Higher breastfeeding exposure was associated with better memory at 6 mo, 
demonstrated by greater preferential looking toward correctly matched items 
during early portions of a relational memory task (i.e., relational binding 
task: P-trend = 0.015 and 0.050 for the first two 1000-ms time bins, 
respectively). No effects of breastfeeding were observed at 18 mo. At 24 mo, 
breastfed children were more likely to display sequential memory during a 
deferred imitation memory task (P-trend = 0.048), and toddlers with more 
exposure to breastfeeding scored higher in receptive language [+0.93 (0.23, 
1.63) and +1.08 (0.10, 2.07) for intermediate- and high-breastfeeding groups, 
respectively, compared with the low-breastfeeding group], as well as expressive 
language [+0.58 (-0.06, 1.23) and +1.22 (0.32, 2.12) for intermediate- and 
high-breastfeeding groups, respectively] assessed via the BSID-III.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest small but significant benefits of 
breastfeeding for some aspects of memory and language development in the first 2 
y of life, with significant improvements in only 4 of 15 indicators. Whether the 
implicated processes confer developmental advantages is unknown and represents 
an important area for future research. This trial was registered at 
www.clinicaltrials.gov as NCT01174875.

© 2015 American Society for Nutrition.

DOI: 10.3945/ajcn.114.095414
PMID: 25646330 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1705. J Healthc Manag. 2014 Sep-Oct;59(5):354-65.

Good to great: using 360-degree feedback to improve physician emotional 
intelligence.

Hammerly ME, Harmon L, Schwaitzberg SD.

Comment in
    J Healthc Manag. 2014 Sep-Oct;59(5):365-6.

The past decade has seen intense interest and dramatic change in how hospitals 
and physician organizations review physician behaviors. The characteristics of 
successful physicians extend past their technical and cognitive skills. Two of 
the six core clinical competencies (professionalism and 
interpersonal/communication skills) endorsed by the Accreditation Council for 
Graduate Medical Education, the American Board of Medical Specialties, and The 
Joint Commission require physicians to succeed in measures associated with 
emotional intelligence (EI). Using 360-degree anonymous feedback surveys to 
screen for improvement opportunities in these two core competencies enables 
organizations to selectively offer education to further develop physician EI. 
Incorporating routine use of these tools and interventions into ongoing 
professional practice evaluation and focused professional practice evaluation 
processes may be a cost-effective strategy for preventing disruptive behaviors 
and increasing the likelihood of success when transitioning to an employed 
practice model. On the basis of a literature review, we determined that 
physician EI plays a key role in leadership; teamwork; and clinical, financial, 
and organizational outcomes. This finding has significant implications for 
healthcare executives seeking to enhance physician alignment and transition to a 
team-based delivery model.

PMID: 25647955 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1706. Acta Chir Orthop Traumatol Cech. 2014;81(6):355-64.

Fracture healing: fracture healing understood as the result of a fascinating 
cascade of physical and biological interactions. Part I. An Attempt to Integrate 
Observations from 30 Years AO Research.

Perren SM(1).

Author information:
(1)AO Research Institute Davos, Switzerland.

The choice of best procedure in fracture treatment relies on a proper 
understanding of tissue reactions to the prevailing mechanical and biological 
conditions. Investing time and effort is rewarding as it opens up access to a 
fascinating world and improves fracture treatment based on logical decision 
making. An intact bony skeleton enables mechanical functions of the human body 
such as locomotion. This function of the bone is made possible by its stiffness 
and strength, which allows bone to carry load without undergoing major 
deformation while remaining intact even under heavy loads. The shortcoming of 
bone as a strong and stiff material is its brittleness. Its brittleness prevents 
bone from bridging a fracture under unstable conditions. In spontaneous healing 
or healing under flxible fiation, a cascade of repair tissues stabilizes the 
fracture and allows for solid bony union. Excessive load fractures the bone. 
Disrupted bone loses its stiffness. Loss of stiffness and, consequently, loss of 
skeletal support disables the function of the limb. fracture healing is a 
ubiquitous and spontaneous process which restores stiffness as a prerequisite 
for mechanical function. Restoration of mechanical integrity requires that bone 
bridges and/or remodels the fracture site. If there is high initial tissue 
deformation (strain) at the fracture site, bone as a brittle material cannot 
bridge the gap. In spontaneous healing or healing under flxible fiation a 
cascade of consecutive phases of tissue differentiation are required to overcome 
this shortcoming of bone. The cascade increases tissue stiffness at the expense 
of tolerance to deformation until a low value of interfragmental strain is 
reached that then allows bone to form a solid bridge. The cascade of 
differentiation is impressive as a "reasonable" process with a goal. Therefore, 
bone healing is often considered as a rational process where the repair tissues 
are expected "to think and to act in order to achieve". we propose the 
observation of bone reactions without assuming that these reactions are guided 
by goal-oriented intelligence because the latter is non-existent. Observing the 
unexpected without having a preconceived opinion is a precondition for new 
insight. This approach avoids being misled into projecting one's own thinking 
into tissues that react without goal orientation. fracture healing is a repair 
process which requires induction and must be enabled. To get a feel for the 
problem we will fist address the mechanical properties of bone as the 
prerequisites for its mechanical functions. Then we will discuss which 
conditions induce and which enable the repair process. The following paper 
addresses a fascinating interplay between physical and biological processes that 
enable fractured bone to bridge solidly and remodel to regain its "pre-fracture" 
function and structure. no one of the different treatment modalities or healing 
patterns is best on its own. for a given situation the goal is to recover the 
function of the bone, limb and patient early and permanently by choosing the 
optimal procedure and implant. Understanding bone reactions permits a rational 
choice and replaces subjective predilection and monomania. The stability of the 
fiation and the blood supply are priority considerations, which must often be 
weighed against each other.

PMID: 25651289 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1707. Front Endocrinol (Lausanne). 2015 Jan 20;5:239. doi: 10.3389/fendo.2014.00239. 
eCollection 2014.

Non-linear pattern formation in bone growth and architecture.

Salmon P(1).

Author information:
(1)Bruker-microCT , Kontich , Belgium.

The three-dimensional morphology of bone arises through adaptation to its 
required engineering performance. Genetically and adaptively bone travels along 
a complex spatiotemporal trajectory to acquire optimal architecture. On a 
cellular, micro-anatomical scale, what mechanisms coordinate the activity of 
osteoblasts and osteoclasts to produce complex and efficient bone architectures? 
One mechanism is examined here - chaotic non-linear pattern formation (NPF) - 
which underlies in a unifying way natural structures as disparate as trabecular 
bone, swarms of birds flying, island formation, fluid turbulence, and others. At 
the heart of NPF is the fact that simple rules operating between interacting 
elements, and Turing-like interaction between global and local signals, lead to 
complex and structured patterns. The study of "group intelligence" exhibited by 
swarming birds or shoaling fish has led to an embodiment of NPF called "particle 
swarm optimization" (PSO). This theoretical model could be applicable to the 
behavior of osteoblasts, osteoclasts, and osteocytes, seeing them operating 
"socially" in response simultaneously to both global and local signals 
(endocrine, cytokine, mechanical), resulting in their clustered activity at 
formation and resorption sites. This represents problem-solving by social 
intelligence, and could potentially add further realism to in silico computer 
simulation of bone modeling. What insights has NPF provided to bone biology? One 
example concerns the genetic disorder juvenile Pagets disease or idiopathic 
hyperphosphatasia, where the anomalous parallel trabecular architecture 
characteristic of this pathology is consistent with an NPF paradigm by analogy 
with known experimental NPF systems. Here, coupling or "feedback" between 
osteoblasts and osteoclasts is the critical element. This NPF paradigm implies a 
profound link between bone regulation and its architecture: in bone the 
architecture is the regulation. The former is the emergent consequence of the 
latter.

DOI: 10.3389/fendo.2014.00239
PMCID: PMC4299519
PMID: 25653638


1708. JMIR Serious Games. 2014 Jul 29;2(2):e7. doi: 10.2196/games.3350.

The cure: design and evaluation of a crowdsourcing game for gene selection for 
breast cancer survival prediction.

Good BM(1), Loguercio S, Griffith OL, Nanis M, Wu C, Su AI.

Author information:
(1)The Scripps Research Institute, Department of Molecular and Experimental 
Medicine, La Jolla, CA, United States. bgood@scripps.edu.

BACKGROUND: Molecular signatures for predicting breast cancer prognosis could 
greatly improve care through personalization of treatment. Computational 
analyses of genome-wide expression datasets have identified such signatures, but 
these signatures leave much to be desired in terms of accuracy, reproducibility, 
and biological interpretability. Methods that take advantage of structured prior 
knowledge (eg, protein interaction networks) show promise in helping to define 
better signatures, but most knowledge remains unstructured. Crowdsourcing via 
scientific discovery games is an emerging methodology that has the potential to 
tap into human intelligence at scales and in modes unheard of before.
OBJECTIVE: The main objective of this study was to test the hypothesis that 
knowledge linking expression patterns of specific genes to breast cancer 
outcomes could be captured from players of an open, Web-based game. We 
envisioned capturing knowledge both from the player's prior experience and from 
their ability to interpret text related to candidate genes presented to them in 
the context of the game.
METHODS: We developed and evaluated an online game called The Cure that captured 
information from players regarding genes for use as predictors of breast cancer 
survival. Information gathered from game play was aggregated using a voting 
approach, and used to create rankings of genes. The top genes from these 
rankings were evaluated using annotation enrichment analysis, comparison to 
prior predictor gene sets, and by using them to train and test machine learning 
systems for predicting 10 year survival.
RESULTS: Between its launch in September 2012 and September 2013, The Cure 
attracted more than 1000 registered players, who collectively played nearly 
10,000 games. Gene sets assembled through aggregation of the collected data 
showed significant enrichment for genes known to be related to key concepts such 
as cancer, disease progression, and recurrence. In terms of the predictive 
accuracy of models trained using this information, these gene sets provided 
comparable performance to gene sets generated using other methods, including 
those used in commercial tests. The Cure is available on the Internet.
CONCLUSIONS: The principal contribution of this work is to show that 
crowdsourcing games can be developed as a means to address problems involving 
domain knowledge. While most prior work on scientific discovery games and 
crowdsourcing in general takes as a premise that contributors have little or no 
expertise, here we demonstrated a crowdsourcing system that succeeded in 
capturing expert knowledge.

DOI: 10.2196/games.3350
PMCID: PMC4307816
PMID: 25654473

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: None declared.


1709. Front Psychol. 2015 Jan 22;5:1589. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.01589. eCollection 
2014.

Reliable gains? Evidence for substantially underpowered designs in studies of 
working memory training transfer to fluid intelligence.

Bogg T(1), Lasecki L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Wayne State University Detroit, MI, USA.

In recent years, cognitive scientists and commercial interests (e.g., Fit 
Brains, Lumosity) have focused research attention and financial resources on 
cognitive tasks, especially working memory tasks, to explore and exploit 
possible transfer effects to general cognitive abilities, such as fluid 
intelligence. The increased research attention has produced mixed findings, as 
well as contention about the disposition of the evidence base. To address this 
contention, Au et al. (2014) recently conducted a meta-analysis of extant 
controlled experimental studies of n-back task training transfer effects on 
measures of fluid intelligence in healthy adults; the results of which showed a 
small training transfer effect. Using several approaches, the current review 
evaluated and re-analyzed the meta-analytic data for the presence of two 
different forms of small-study effects: (1) publication bias in the presence of 
low power and; (2) low power in the absence of publication bias. The results of 
these approaches showed no evidence of selection bias in the working memory 
training literature, but did show evidence of small-study effects related to low 
power in the absence of publication bias. While the effect size estimate 
identified by Au et al. (2014) provided the most precise estimate to date, it 
should be interpreted in the context of a uniformly low-powered base of 
evidence. The present work concludes with a brief set of considerations for 
assessing the adequacy of a body of research findings for the application of 
meta-analytic techniques.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.01589
PMCID: PMC4302828
PMID: 25657629


1710. Iran J Child Neurol. 2014 Fall;8(4):28-32.

Cognitive outcomes for congenital hypothyroid and healthy children: a 
comparative study.

Ordooei M(1), Mottaghipisheh H(1), Fallah R(2), Rabiee A(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Shahid Sadoughi University of Medical Sciences, 
Yazd, Iran.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, Shahid Sadoughi University of Medical Sciences, 
Yazd, Iran ; Growth Disorders of Children Research Center, Department of 
Pediatrics, Shahid Sadoughi University of Medical Sciences, Yazd, Iran.
(3)Shahid Sadoughi University of Medical Sciences, Yazd, Iran.

OBJECTIVE: Early diagnosis and treatment of congenital hypothyroidism (CH) and 
the prevention of developmental retardation is the main goal of public health 
national screening programs. This study compares the cognitive ability of 
children with CH diagnosed by neonatal screening with a healthy control group 
(2007) in Yazd, Iran.
MATERIALS & METHODS: In a case-controlled study, the intelligent quotient (IQ) 
of 40 five-year-old children with early treated CH and good compliance were 
evaluated by the Wechsler preschool and primary scale of intelligent test and 
compared to 40 healthy age and gender matched children as controls.
RESULTS: 22 boys (55%) and 18 girls (45%) in both groups were evaluated. In 
children with CH, 19 (47.5%) and 21 (52.5%) persons had transient and permanent 
hypothyroidism, respectively. Range of TSH and T4 level at the onset of 
diagnosis were 11.41-81 mu/l and 1.50-14.20 μg/dl, respectively. The 
intelligence levels of all children with CH were within the average or normal 
range and IQs ranged from 91-108. Children with CH had lower full-scale IQs 
(107.25 ± 2. 9 versus 110.50 ± 2.66, p=0.001), verbal IQ (106.95 ± 3.5 versus 
109.90 ± 3.44, P-value=0.001) and performance IQ (106.3 ± 3.68 versus 108.87 ± 
3.70) than the control group. However, no statistically significant differences 
were observed for mean IQ scores in permanent and transient CH.
CONCLUSION: Children with CH who had early treatment and good compliance had 
normal cognitive abilities, but may have a decreased IQ relative to the healthy 
control group.

PMCID: PMC4307365
PMID: 25657767


1711. Int J Clin Exp Med. 2014 Dec 15;7(12):5021-30. eCollection 2014.

Inhibition of synaptophysin ubiquitination may improve the intelligent drop due 
to high glucose and hypoxia.

Li Q(1), Zhu XL(1), Jin AP(1), Liu XY(1), Zhao YX(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Tenth People's Hospital, Tongji University 301# 
Middle Yanchang Road, Shanghai 200072, China.

Synaptophysin (SYP) is a synaptic vesicle membrane protein and involved in the 
release of neurotransmitters, synaptic plasticity, and formation and recycling 
of synaptic vesicles. SYP may serve as a specific marker of synaptic proteins. 
Our results showed high glucose and hypoxia could significantly impair the 
intelligence and the SYP level was positively related to the degree of 
intelligence in animals. Ubiquitination may influence the SYP expression. In our 
study, an ubiquitination inhibitor (MG-132) was injected intraperitoneally. 
Results showed this could increase SYP expression in the brain to improve the 
intelligent drop due to high glucose and hypoxia in animals. SYP ubiquitination 
is closely associated with E3 ubiquitin ligase, a mammalian homologue of seven 
in absentia. In our study, lentivirus expressing siah shRNA was injected into 
the cerebral ventricle to down-regulate siah expression, and results showed the 
SYP expression in the brain increased markedly. In addition, we also found that 
VitK3 could increase the SYP expression in the brain to improve the intelligent 
drop due to high glucose and hypoxia.

PMCID: PMC4307448
PMID: 25664001


1712. Prim Care Companion CNS Disord. 2014 Sep 25;16(5):10.4088/PCC.14br01651. doi: 
10.4088/PCC.14br01651. eCollection 2014.

Rumination syndrome in ethiopia: a case study.

Bruni A(1).

Author information:
(1)World Health Organization, Country Office Ethiopia, NCD, Menelik II, Addis 
Ababa, Ethiopia.

Eating disorders are commonly believed to be rare or nonexistent in Africa. 
However, due to exposure to Western culture, a rise in eating disorders among 
African women is reported in the literature. This case study describes a 
17-year-old Ethiopian girl who meets the DSM-IV-TR and DSM-5 diagnostic criteria 
for bulimia nervosa and the Rome III Diagnostic Criteria for Functional 
Gastrointestinal Disorders criteria for rumination syndrome. The article 
discusses the diagnostic delays, the difficulties in terms of therapy, and the 
context determinants that-combined with individual psychopathological 
features-are thought to contribute to the disorders. Health professionals should 
be informed about the prevalence of eating disorders in Africa and, more 
specifically, of rumination syndrome in young women with normal intelligence. In 
light of this case study, it seems necessary to raise awareness with regard to 
the insufficient evidence on effective therapies for rumination syndrome in 
individuals without intellectual impairment.

DOI: 10.4088/PCC.14br01651
PMCID: PMC4321004
PMID: 25667799


1713. Epilepsy Behav Case Rep. 2014 Apr 19;2:57-9. doi: 10.1016/j.ebcr.2014.03.007. 
eCollection 2014.

Recurrent diarrhea as a manifestation of temporal lobe epilepsy.

Murai T(1), Tohyama T(2), Kinoshita M(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Utano National Hospital, National Hospital 
Organization, Kyoto, Japan ; Department of Neurology, Kyoto City Hospital, 
Kyoto, Japan.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Kyoto Min-iren Chuo Hospital, Kyoto, Japan.
(3)Department of Neurology, Utano National Hospital, National Hospital 
Organization, Kyoto, Japan.

A woman with temporal lobe epilepsy manifesting with repeated episodes of sudden 
diarrhea and loss of consciousness is reported. A 63-year-old, right-handed 
female presented with chief complaints of sudden diarrhea and loss of 
consciousness for almost three decades. The first attack occurred in her 30s, 
and similar attacks repeated several times in a year. Her attacks comprised 
abrupt abdominal discomfort, diarrhea, sudden emergence of old memories relating 
to when she had played with her brother in her childhood, and loss of 
consciousness during defecation. She had no convulsion or automatism and fully 
recovered in a few minutes. Every time she was transferred to emergency hospital 
by ambulance, she had examinations such as blood test, head computed tomography, 
electrocardiogram, abdominal ultrasound, and electroencephalography (EEG), but 
no specific diagnosis was made. On admission to our hospital, vital signs, 
neurological examination, and blood tests did not show abnormal findings. During 
long-term video-EEG monitoring for 40 h, she had no habitual event. Interictal 
EEG showed intermittent irregular delta waves and sharp regional transients in 
the left anterio-midtemporal area. Sharp transients were not as outstanding from 
background activities as to be defined as epileptiform discharges, but they were 
reproducible in morphology and distribution and appeared not only in sleep but 
also in wakefulness. Brain magnetic resonance imaging was unremarkable. 
Single-photon emission computed tomography showed a decrease of blood flow in 
the left frontal and temporal lobes. Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-III 
showed a decline of verbal comprehension. We concluded that the patient was 
suffering from partial epilepsy originating from the left temporal lobe. 
Carbamazepine markedly improved her seizures. Temporal lobe epilepsy can 
manifest with diverse autonomic symptoms and signs. Abdominal sensations often 
herald the onset of epileptic seizures. Among them is an uncommon syndrome 
called abdominal epilepsy in which gastrointestinal complaints are the primary 
or the sole manifestation of epileptic seizures. In patients who present with 
diarrhea and other autonomic symptoms otherwise unexplained, a possible 
diagnosis of epilepsy should be considered.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ebcr.2014.03.007
PMCID: PMC4308087
PMID: 25667870


1714. Springerplus. 2014 Mar 29;3:164. doi: 10.1186/2193-1801-3-164. eCollection 2014.

Comparison of intelligence, weight and height in children after general 
anesthesia with and without perioperative desaturation in non-cardiac surgery: a 
historical and concurrent follow-up study.

Oofuvong M(1), Geater AF(2), Chongsuvivatwong V(2), Chanchayanon T(1), 
Worachotekamjorn J(3), Sriyanaluk B(1), Saefung B(1), Nuanjun K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, Faculty of Medicine, Prince of Songkla 
University, Songkhla, 90112 Thailand.
(2)Epidemiology Unit, Faculty of Medicine, Prince of Songkla University, 
Songkhla, 90112 Thailand.
(3)Division of Child Development, Department of Pediatrics, Faculty of Medicine, 
Prince of Songkla University, Songkhla, 90112 Thailand.

PURPOSE: To determine whether perioperative desaturation (PD) in preschool 
children undergoing non-cardiac surgery is associated with subsequent impairment 
of intelligence or subsequent change in age-specific weight and height 
percentile.
METHOD: A historical-concurrent follow-up study was conducted in children 
aged ≤ 60 months who underwent general anesthesia (GA) for non-cardiac surgery 
between January 2008 and December 2011 at Songklanagarind Hospital. Children who 
developed PD (PD group) and children who did not develop perioperative 
respiratory events (no-PRE group) were matched on sex, age, year of having index 
GA, type of surgery and choice of anesthesia. The children's age-specific weight 
and height percentile and intelligence quotient (IQ) scores by Standford 
Binet-LM or Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children, 3rd edition 12-60 months 
after GA were compared using Student's t- test and Wilcoxon's rank sum test. 
Multivariate linear regression models for standardized IQ and multivariate mixed 
effects linear regression models for the change of age-specific weight and 
height percentile from the time of index GA to the time of IQ test were 
performed to identify independent predictors. The coefficients and 95% 
confidence intervals (CI) were displayed and considered significant if the F 
test p-values were < 0.05.
RESULTS: Of 103 subjects in each group (PD vs no-PRE), there were no 
statistically significant differences in IQ (94.7 vs 98.3, p = 0.13), 
standardized IQ (-0.1 vs 0.1, p = 0.14) or age-specific weight percentile (38th 
vs 63th, p = 0.06). However, age-specific height percentile in the PD group at 
the time of IQ test was significantly lower (38th vs 50th, p = 0.02). In the 
multivariate analysis, PD was not a significant predictor for standardized IQ 
(coefficient: -0.06, 95% CI: -0.3, 0.19, p = 0.57), change in age-specific 
weight percentile (coefficient: 4.66, 95% CI: -2.63, 11.95, p = 0.21) or change 
in age-specific height percentile (coefficient: -1.65, 95% CI: -9.74, 6.44, 
p = 0.69) from the time of index GA to the time of IQ test after adjusting for 
family and anesthesia characteristics.
CONCLUSION: Our study could not demonstrate any serious effect of PD on 
subsequent intelligence or on the change in age-specific weight and height 
percentile of children after non-cardiac surgery.

DOI: 10.1186/2193-1801-3-164
PMCID: PMC4320222
PMID: 25674447


1715. Cuad Bioet. 2014 Sep-Dec;25(85):379-86.

Post-human and scientific research: how engineering carried out the project.

Ghilardi G(1), Accoto D(2).

Author information:
(1)Università Campus Biomedico di Roma. FAST Istituto di Filosofia dell'Agire 
Scientifico e Tecnologico. Via Alvaro del Portillo, 21, 00128 Roma Italia. 
g.ghilardi@unicampus.it.
(2)Università Campus Biomedico di Roma. Assistant Professor in Biomedic 
Engineering. Via Alvaro del Portillo, 21, 00128 Roma Italia.

We start with a definition of robot in order to understand which are legitimate 
robotics' objectives. Then it is provided an outline of new robot generations 
and their industrial and biomedical applications. We consider the consequences 
of this new kind of technology on the notion of intelligence, stressing how the 
exteroceptive sensor systems provide a new bottom up approach to the AI debate. 
We consider three challenges Robotics have to face nowadays. First materials and 
components, which are built with technologies top-down, set huge limits in terms 
of weight, speed, safety and cost, not to mention reliability and durability. 
Second the methodological aspects: the challenge concerns the management of 
complexity. How to achieve intelligent and adaptive behaviours out of the 
control system of the robot, which must remain intrinsically simple? A third 
issue we address is the cultural one: the unreasonable expectations of the 
general public often provoked by a misunderstanding of the notion of 
intelligence itself. We consider then what makes human specifically human from a 
broader philosophic point of view, pointing out how the will is strangely absent 
in the AI debate. We show three advantages connected with this different 
perspective instead of the classical one intellect centered. First, while 
intellect is not used only by man, will is. Second, desire involves intellect 
while the reciprocal is not necessarily true. Third, looking at robotics and 
more specifically to cybernetics the key concept of these fields are control and 
governance, whereas both of them are specifically relate to the domain of will 
rather than intellect. We look then into the concept of participation as 
essential to the understanding of the notion of will, to overcome some 
roboethics' issues related to the adoption of the still dominant rationalistic 
paradigm.

PMID: 25684378 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1716. J Neurodev Disord. 2014;6(1):32. doi: 10.1186/1866-1955-6-32. Epub 2014 Aug 14.

Facial emotion recognition in agenesis of the corpus callosum.

Bridgman MW(1), Brown WS(2), Spezio ML(3), Leonard MK(4), Adolphs R(5), Paul 
LK(6).

Author information:
(1)DuBois Regional Medical Center, 15801 DuBois, PA, USA.
(2)Travis Research Institute, Fuller Theological Seminary, 91101 Pasadena, CA, 
USA.
(3)Division of Humanities and Social Sciences, Caltech, 91125 Pasadena, CA, USA 
; Scripps College, 91711 Pomona, CA, USA.
(4)Neurological Surgery, University of California, 94117-1080 San Francisco, CA, 
USA.
(5)Division of Humanities and Social Sciences, Caltech, 91125 Pasadena, CA, USA 
; Division of Biology, Caltech, 91125 Pasadena, CA, USA.
(6)Division of Humanities and Social Sciences, Caltech, 91125 Pasadena, CA, USA.

BACKGROUND: Impaired social functioning is a common symptom of individuals with 
developmental disruptions in callosal connectivity. Among these developmental 
conditions, agenesis of the corpus callosum provides the most extreme and 
clearly identifiable example of callosal disconnection. To date, deficits in 
nonliteral language comprehension, humor, theory of mind, and social reasoning 
have been documented in agenesis of the corpus callosum. Here, we examined a 
basic social ability as yet not investigated in this population: recognition of 
facial emotion and its association with social gaze.
METHODS: Nine individuals with callosal agenesis and nine matched controls 
completed four tasks involving emotional faces: emotion recognition from upright 
and inverted faces, gender recognition, and passive viewing. Eye-tracking data 
were collected concurrently on all four tasks and analyzed according to 
designated facial regions of interest.
RESULTS: Individuals with callosal agenesis exhibited impairments in recognizing 
emotions from upright faces, in particular lower accuracy for fear and anger, 
and these impairments were directly associated with diminished attention to the 
eye region. The callosal agenesis group exhibited greater consistency in emotion 
recognition across conditions (upright vs. inverted), with poorest performance 
for fear identification in both conditions. The callosal agenesis group also had 
atypical facial scanning (lower fractional dwell time in the eye region) during 
gender naming and passive viewing of faces, but they did not differ from 
controls on gender naming performance. The pattern of results did not differ 
when taking into account full-scale intelligence quotient or presence of autism 
spectrum symptoms.
CONCLUSIONS: Agenesis of the corpus callosum results in a pattern of atypical 
facial scanning characterized by diminished attention to the eyes. This pattern 
suggests that reduced callosal connectivity may contribute to the development 
and maintenance of emotion processing deficits involving reduced attention to 
others' eyes.

DOI: 10.1186/1866-1955-6-32
PMCID: PMC4335392
PMID: 25705318


1717. J Med Life. 2014 Oct-Dec;7(4):604-10.

Sonotubometry, a useful tool for the evaluation of the Eustachian tube 
ventilatory function.

Borangiu A(1), Popescu CR(2), Purcarea VL(3).

Author information:
(1)"Carol Davila" University of Medicine and Pharmacy, Bucharest, "M.S. Curie" 
Clinical Hospital.
(2)"Carol Davila" University of Medicine and Pharmacy, Bucharest, "Coltea" 
Clinical Hospital.
(3)Department 3, "Carol Davila" University of Medicine and Pharmacy, Bucharest.

From the three Eustachian tube (ET) functions: middle ear protection, secretion 
clearance and middle ear ventilation, the ventilatory function is unanimously 
considered the most important one, because proper hearing is established only 
when tympanic membrane compliance is normal. This requires equilibrium between 
the middle ear and ambient gas pressure, which makes the normal functioning of 
active ET opening of critical importance. There are several methods and tests 
that can assess such a complex and variable mechanism. Sonotubometry is one such 
method; despite the fact that it has been continuously improved in the last 20 
years, it is not yet systematically used to evaluate the ET ventilatory 
function, because its measurement pattern, context mapping (patient, clinic 
data, medication, treatment), validation, reproducibility and value for clinic 
practice, have not yet been fully consolidated and integrated in a 
knowledge-based, service-oriented system, that can provide decision support or 
even diagnostic. The paper reviews the role of tubal sonometry as a 
non-invasive, physiologic and easy to use method in assessing the ventilatory 
function and investigates the validity and reproducibility of a measuring 
pattern and test in a group of children. The paper describes the test pattern 
used, and the computer-based platform based on: (1) Digital Signal Processing 
(DSP) for sound acquisition and low-level processing; (2) Artificial 
Intelligence techniques to extract significant sound features from sonotubograms 
and learn a manifold context database. Results are reported from test series 
carried out in healthy children; a similar study between tests is included in 
the final Discussions section.

PMCID: PMC4316148
PMID: 25713631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1718. Psychiatr Pol. 2014 Nov-Dec;48(6):1117-26. doi: 10.12740/PP/31394.

[Homocysteine and cognitive functions in bipolar depression].

[Article in Polish]

Permoda-Osip A(1), Kisielewski J(1), Dorszewska J(2), Rybakowski J(1).

Author information:
(1)Klinika Psychiatrii Dorosłych UM w Poznaniu.
(2)Pracownia Neurobiologii Katedry Neurologii UM w Poznaniu.

AIM: The aim of the study was to evaluate a relationship between concentrations 
of hoocysteine (HCY), vitamin B12 and folic acid and disturbances of cognitive 
functions during acute episode of bipolar depression.
METHODS: 116 patients were studied (93 women, 23 men), aged 20-78 (mean 51±13) 
years during acute episode of bipolar depression. Depression was evaluated by 
the 17-item Hamilton's Depression Rating Scale (HDRS). The following tests 
measuring cognitive functions were applied: Trail Making Test, Wisconsin Card 
Sorting Test, Stroop Test and Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Revised. In all 
patients, the measurements of serum homocysteine, vitamin B12 and folic acid 
were carried out.
RESULTS: Hyperhomocystemia (HCY>15μM/l) was detected in 41 patients (35%), more 
frequently in men (52%) than in women (31%). Patients with hyperhomocysteinemia 
achieved worse results in sub-tests of WAIS-R (verbal understanding and 
perceptional organization). In men, negative correlation was found between HCY 
concentration and number of errors in Stroop Test, and WCST (total errors and 
non-perseverative errors). In women with bipolar disorder, type II, negative 
correlation between HCY concentration and time of Stroop Test, and between 
vitamin B12 concentration and number of errors in Stroop Test, were 
demonstrated. In the whole group and in men, there was positive correlation 
between higher folic acid concentration and the number of errors in Stroop Test.
CONCLUSIONS: The results obtained show higher HCY concentration in considerable 
proportion of patients with bipolar depression, especially in men. They also 
confirm a connect between high homocysteine concentration and worse performance 
in some neuropsychological tests. Such relationship was more marked in men.

DOI: 10.12740/PP/31394
PMID: 25717482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1719. Neuropsychobiology. 2014;70(4):244-252. doi: 10.1159/000369026.

In school-age children who were born very preterm sleep efficiency is associated 
with cognitive function.

Hagmann-von Arx P, Perkinson-Gloor N, Brand S, Albert D, Holsboer-Trachsler E, 
Grob A, Weber P, Lemola S.

AIMS: This study examined whether the association between sleep duration, as 
well as sleep continuity, and cognitive function differs between normally 
developing preterm children compared to full-term children during middle 
childhood.
METHODS: A total of 58 early preterm (<32 weeks' gestation) and 55 full-term 
children, aged 6-10 years and enrolled in elementary school, were assessed on 
sleep duration, sleep continuity and cognitive function. We used in-home 
polysomnographic recordings of total sleep time, sleep efficiency and nocturnal 
awakenings. Cognitive tests included intelligence, arithmetic, selective 
attention, verbal memory, and visuospatial memory.
RESULTS: Preterm children showed poorer performance in intelligence, arithmetic, 
selective attention, and visuospatial memory (d = 0.38-0.79, p < 0.05) and more 
objectively assessed nocturnal awakenings (d = 0.40, p = 0.03) than full-term 
children. Associations of sleep efficiency and cognitive functions 
(intelligence, arithmetic, selective attention, visuospatial memory) were 
positive and stronger for preterm children (β = 0.17-0.31, p < 0.05), while they 
were nonsignificant for full-term children.
CONCLUSION: Results confirm lower cognitive test scores and more nocturnal 
awakenings in normally developing early preterm children compared to full-term 
children. Furthermore, poor sleep efficiency may aggravate cognitive deficits, 
particularly in children who are more vulnerable due to premature birth.

© 2015 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000369026
PMID: 25720547 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1720. Am J Psychiatry. 2015 Mar 1;172(3):259-65. doi: 10.1176/appi.ajp.2014.14040516. 
Epub 2014 Nov 7.

IQ and schizophrenia in a Swedish national sample: their causal relationship and 
the interaction of IQ with genetic risk.

Kendler KS(1), Ohlsson H, Sundquist J, Sundquist K.

Author information:
(1)From the Virginia Institute for Psychiatric and Behavioral Genetics, the 
Department of Psychiatry, and the Department of Human and Molecular Genetics, 
Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond; the Center for Primary Health Care 
Research, Lund University, Malmö, Sweden; and the Stanford Prevention Research 
Center, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, Calif.

Comment in
    Am J Psychiatry. 2015 Aug 1;172(8):793-4.
    Am J Psychiatry. 2015 Aug 1;172(8):794-5.

OBJECTIVE: The authors sought to clarify the relationship between IQ and 
subsequent risk for schizophrenia.
METHOD: IQ was assessed at ages 18-20 in 1,204,983 Swedish males born between 
1951 and 1975. Schizophrenia was assessed by hospital diagnosis through 2010. 
Cox proportional hazards models were used to investigate future risk for 
schizophrenia in individuals as a function of their IQ score, and then 
stratified models using pairs of relatives were used to adjust for familial 
cluster. Finally, regression models were used to examine the interaction between 
IQ and genetic liability on risk for schizophrenia.
RESULTS: IQ had a monotonic relationship with schizophrenia risk across the IQ 
range, with a mean increase in risk of 3.8% per 1-point decrease in IQ; this 
association was stronger in the lower than the higher IQ range. Co-relative 
control analyses showed a similar association between IQ and schizophrenia in 
the general population and in cousin, half-sibling, and full-sibling pairs. A 
robust interaction was seen between genetic liability to schizophrenia and IQ in 
predicting schizophrenia risk. Genetic susceptibility for schizophrenia had a 
much stronger impact on risk of illness for those with low than high 
intelligence. The IQ-genetic liability interaction arose largely from IQ 
differences between close relatives.
CONCLUSIONS: IQ assessed in late adolescence is a robust risk factor for 
subsequent onset of schizophrenia. This association is not the result of a 
declining IQ associated with insidious onset. In this large, representative 
sample, we found no evidence for a link between genius and schizophrenia. 
Co-relative control analyses showed that the association between lower IQ and 
schizophrenia is not the result of shared familial risk factors and may be 
causal. The strongest effect was seen with IQ differences within families. High 
intelligence substantially attenuates the impact of genetic liability on the 
risk for schizophrenia.

DOI: 10.1176/appi.ajp.2014.14040516
PMCID: PMC4391822
PMID: 25727538 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: None of the 
authors have conflicts to report.


1721. Regeneration (Oxf). 2014 Apr;1(2):37-56. doi: 10.1002/reg2.13.

A bioinformatics expert system linking functional data to anatomical outcomes in 
limb regeneration.

Lobo D(1), Feldman EB(1), Shah M(1), Malone TJ(1), Levin M(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Regenerative and Developmental Biology, and Department of Biology, 
Tufts University, 200 Boston Avenue, Suite 4600, Medford, MA 02155, U.S.A.

Amphibians and molting arthropods have the remarkable capacity to regenerate 
amputated limbs, as described by an extensive literature of experimental cuts, 
amputations, grafts, and molecular techniques. Despite a rich history of 
experimental efforts, no comprehensive mechanistic model exists that can account 
for the pattern regulation observed in these experiments. While bioinformatics 
algorithms have revolutionized the study of signaling pathways, no such tools 
have heretofore been available to assist scientists in formulating testable 
models of large-scale morphogenesis that match published data in the limb 
regeneration field. Major barriers preventing an algorithmic approach are the 
lack of formal descriptions for experimental regenerative information and a 
repository to centralize storage and mining of functional data on limb 
regeneration. Establishing a new bioinformatics of shape would significantly 
accelerate the discovery of key insights into the mechanisms that implement 
complex regeneration. Here, we describe a novel mathematical ontology for limb 
regeneration to unambiguously encode phenotype, manipulation, and experiment 
data. Based on this formalism, we present the first centralized formal database 
of published limb regeneration experiments together with a user-friendly expert 
system tool to facilitate its access and mining. These resources are freely 
available for the community and will assist both human biologists and artificial 
intelligence systems to discover testable, mechanistic models of limb 
regeneration.

DOI: 10.1002/reg2.13
PMCID: PMC4339036
PMID: 25729585


1722. Monash Bioeth Rev. 2014 Sep-Dec;32(3-4):189-204. doi: 10.1007/s40592-014-0014-7.

Distributive justice and cognitive enhancement in lower, normal intelligence.

Dunlop M(1), Savulescu J.

Author information:
(1)University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.

There exists a significant disparity within society between individuals in terms 
of intelligence. While intelligence varies naturally throughout society, the 
extent to which this impacts on the life opportunities it affords to each 
individual is greatly undervalued. Intelligence appears to have a prominent 
effect over a broad range of social and economic life outcomes. Many key 
determinants of well-being correlate highly with the results of IQ tests, and 
other measures of intelligence, and an IQ of 75 is generally accepted as the 
most important threshold in modern life. The ability to enhance our cognitive 
capacities offers an exciting opportunity to correct disabling natural variation 
and inequality in intelligence. Pharmaceutical cognitive enhancers, such as 
modafinil and methylphenidate, have been shown to have the capacity to enhance 
cognition in normal, healthy individuals. Perhaps of most relevance is the 
presence of an 'inverted U effect' for most pharmaceutical cognitive enhancers, 
whereby the degree of enhancement increases as intelligence levels deviate 
further below the mean. Although enhancement, including cognitive enhancement, 
has been much debated recently, we argue that there are egalitarian reasons to 
enhance individuals with low but normal intelligence. Under egalitarianism, 
cognitive enhancement has the potential to reduce opportunity inequality and 
contribute to relative income and welfare equality in the lower, normal 
intelligence subgroup. Cognitive enhancement use is justifiable under 
prioritarianism through various means of distribution; selective access to the 
lower, normal intelligence subgroup, universal access, or paradoxically through 
access primarily to the average and above average intelligence subgroups. 
Similarly, an aggregate increase in social well-being is achieved through 
similar means of distribution under utilitarianism. In addition, the use of 
cognitive enhancement within the lower, normal intelligence subgroup negates, or 
at the very least minimises, several common objections to cognitive enhancement. 
Subsequently, this paper demonstrates that there is a compelling case for 
cognitive enhancement use in individuals with lower, normal intelligence.

DOI: 10.1007/s40592-014-0014-7
PMID: 25743047 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1723. J Clin Exp Hepatol. 2014 Mar;4(1):37-50. doi: 10.1016/j.jceh.2014.02.005. Epub 
2014 Apr 21.

Gaucher disease.

Nagral A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Jaslok Hospital and Research Centre, Mumbai, 
Maharashtra, India.

Gaucher disease is the commonest lysosomal storage disease seen in India and 
worldwide. It should be considered in any child or adult with an unexplained 
splenohepatomegaly and cytopenia which are seen in the three types of Gaucher 
disease. Type 1 is the non-neuronopathic form and type 2 and 3 are the 
neuronopathic forms. Type 2 is a more severe neuronopathic form leading to 
mortality by 2 years of age. Definitive diagnosis is made by a blood test-the 
glucocerebrosidase assay. There is no role for histological examination of the 
bone marrow, liver or spleen for diagnosis of the disease. Molecular studies for 
mutations are useful for confirming diagnosis, screening family members and 
prognosticating the disease. A splenectomy should not be performed except for 
palliation or when there is no response to enzyme replacement treatment or no 
possibility of getting any definitive treatment. Splenectomy may worsen skeletal 
and lung manifestations in Gaucher disease. Enzyme replacement therapy (ERT) has 
completely revolutionized the prognosis and is now the standard of care for 
patients with this disease. Best results are seen in type 1 disease with good 
resolution of splenohepatomegaly, cytopenia and bone symptoms. Neurological 
symptoms in type 3 disease need supportive care. ERT is of no benefit in type 2 
disease. Monitoring of patients on ERT involves evaluation of growth, blood 
counts, liver and spleen size and biomarkers such as chitotriosidase which 
reflect the disease burden. Therapy with ERT is very expensive and though 
patients in India have so far got the drug through a charitable access 
programme, there is a need for the government to facilitate access to treatment 
for this potentially curable disease. Bone marrow transplantation is an inferior 
option but may be considered when access to expensive ERT is not possible.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jceh.2014.02.005
PMCID: PMC4017182
PMID: 25755533


1724. Nurse Educ Pract. 2015 May;15(3):149-54. doi: 10.1016/j.nepr.2014.07.006. Epub 
2014 Sep 10.

Embracing external scrutiny to build bridges and genuine partnerships between 
education and clinical practice.

McSherry R(1), Cottis K(2), Rapson T(3), Stringer M(4).

Author information:
(1)Nursing and Practice Development, School of Health and Social Care, 
University of Teesside, Middlesbrough, England TS1 3BA, UK. Electronic address: 
Robert.McSherry@tees.ac.uk.
(2)Mid Staffordshire National Health Service Foundation Trust, Stafford 
Hospital, Weston Road, Stafford, England ST16 3SA, UK. Electronic address: 
kathryn.cottis@staffs.ac.uk.
(3)Clinical Education Faculty of Health Sciences Staffordshire University 
Blackheath Lane Stafford England ST18 0AD, UK. Electronic address: 
t.rapson@staffs.ac.uk.
(4)Faculty of Health Sciences, Staffordshire University, Blackheath Lane, 
Stafford, England ST18 0AD, UK. Electronic address: m.p.stringer@staffs.ac.uk.

Despite having made significant changes and improvements since 2007, publication 
of The Mid-Staffordshire National Health Service Foundation Trust Public Inquiry 
(2013) refocused attention on the poor care standards that had taken place. 
Recommendations include far reaching national transformational changes not only 
for the National Health Service but also for professional regulatory bodies and 
other agencies linked to health and social care. This paper describes how 
external scrutiny was embraced to move staff from initial loss of confidence, 
feelings of anger and defensiveness to embracing opportunities to increase 
transparency, build bridges and genuine partnerships between universities and 
healthcare providers. Following an Extraordinary Review by the Nursing and 
Midwifery Council an action plan was collaboratively formulated between 
Staffordshire University and Mid-Staffordshire National Health Service 
Foundation Trust. This resulted in the implementation of a Practice Learning 
Improvement Project which monitored the action plan, ensured sharing of all 
learning and production of evidence for external scrutiny. Key lessons learnt 
included the need to: move beyond mere compliance with regulatory performance 
indicators; engage senior staff in all aspects of student learning; develop 
candid sharing of soft and hard intelligence, clearly delineate placement 
support roles and ensure engagement of academics in practice has transparent 
outcomes for the student, practice and education.

Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nepr.2014.07.006
PMID: 25758150 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1725. Iran J Psychiatry Behav Sci. 2014 Fall;8(3):75-80.

Effect of reminiscence on cognitive status and memory of the elderly people.

Akhoondzadeh G(1), Jalalmanesh S(2), Hojjati H(3).

Author information:
(1)PhD Student, Department of Nursing, International Campus, Kerman University 
of Medical Sciences, Kerman, Iran.
(2)Department of Nursing, School of Nursing and Midwifery, Islamic Azad 
University, Tehran Branch, Tehran, Iran.
(3)Young Researchers Club, Islamic Azad University, Aliabad Katoul Branch, 
Aliabad Katoul, Iran.

OBJECTIVE: The present study aimed to determine the effect of reminiscence on 
cognitive status and memory of a sample of elderly people who lived in aged day 
centers in Golestan province, Iran.
METHODS: This study was a semi-experimental research. The subjects consisted of 
45 elderly people who referred to the aged day centers of Golestan province. 
Each four groups of 45 aged subjects (4 groups of 10-12 subjects) took part in 8 
reminiscence sessions which lasted one to one and half hour. Cognitive status 
and of the aged, before and after taking part, was assessed by Mini Mental State 
Examination and Wechsler Memory Scale.
RESULTS: Mean (±SD) cognitive status score at pre-test stage was 24 (±2) which 
increased to 25 (±2) at post-test stage (p < 0.01). Mean (±SD) intelligence 
quotient was 87 (±7) at pre-test stage which increased to 92 (±10) at post-test 
stage (p < 0.01).
CONCLUSION: Reminiscence sessions held for the aged studied here had beneficial 
effects on cognition and memory of the subjects.

PMCID: PMC4359728
PMID: 25780378


1726. Iran J Psychiatry. 2014 Oct;9(4):188-96.

The Relationship between Emotional Intelligence and Marital Satisfaction: 
10-Year Outcome of Partners from Three Different Economic Levels.

Nasiri Zarch Z(1), Marashi SM(2), Raji H(3).

Author information:
(1)Educational Psychology, Shahid Beheshti University, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Health Policy Research Center, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, 
Iran.
(3)Bahrami Children's Hospital, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran.

BACK GROUND: Emotional communication and economic factors play an important role 
in having a satisfying relationship and a more successful marriage. In this 
regard, we investigated the 10-year outcome of partners from three different 
economic levels regarding the relationship between emotional intelligence (EI) 
and marital satisfaction.
OBJECTIVE: The research was designed as a descriptive-correlative survey and 
data were analyzed using Pearson correlation test and stepwise regression.
METHODS AND MATERIAL: Participants were 159 couples (N = 318) who were randomly 
selected through clustered sampling. The questionnaires included: Bar-on 
Emotional Intelligence (1997) and Enrich Marital satisfaction (1989).
RESULTS: The findings revealed that the average values of emotional intelligence 
(m = 333.1) and marital satisfaction (m = 300.77) were high in the under-rich 
region (p<0.05). Moreover, there was no significant relationship between 
interpersonal and marital satisfaction within the under-rich region. On average, 
emotional intelligence accounted for 40.8% of marital satisfaction within those 
three regions (p<0.01).
CONCLUSION: The results of the regression analysis showed that general mood is 
the most effective factor changing marital satisfaction in the three studied 
regions (R2= 0.34), rich (R2= 0.42) and semi-rich (R2= 0.52) regions (p<0.01). 
The most influential factor changing marital satisfaction in the under-rich (R2= 
0.28) region was found to be stress management (p<0.01).

PMCID: PMC4361820
PMID: 25792986


1727. Iran J Psychiatry. 2014 Oct;9(4):197-202.

Neurocognitive Profile of Children with Attention Deficit Hyperactivity 
Disorders (ADHD): A comparison between subtypes.

Ahmadi N(1), Mohammadi MR(1), Araghi SM(2), Zarafshan H(1).

Author information:
(1)Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Psychiatry & Psychology Research 
Center, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Isfahan University, Faculty of Educational Sciences & Psychology, Isfahan, 
Iran.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to examine the differences between ADHD 
subtypes in executive function tasks compared to themselves and normal controls.
METHOD: In this study, 45 school aged children with Attention Deficit 
Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) and 30 normal children who were matched based on 
age and IQ score in Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children-Revised (WISC-R) 
were compared in terms of executive function. We used Wisconsin Sorting Card 
Test to assess executive function in both groups. We also used children's scores 
in Children Symptom Inventory-4 (CSI-4) for diagnosing ADHD and specifying ADHD 
subtypes. Data were entered in SPSS-17 and analyzed by T-test and ANOVA static 
tests to clarify the differences between ADHD and controls and between ADHD 
subtypes. Scheffe's test was also used to identify which groups were different 
from one another. The mean and standard divisions (SD) were used for descriptive 
analysis.
RESULTS: ADHD subtypes are significantly different in terms of perseverative 
responses (p≤ 0/01) and perseverative errors (p≤ 0/001). Based on Scheffe's 
test, Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorders-Hyperactive type (ADHD-H) is not 
that different from Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorders-Inattention type 
(ADHD-I) and Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorders-Combined type (ADHD-C), 
but there are significant responses and perseverative differences between ADHD-I 
and ADHD-C in terms of perseverative errors. ADHD-C shows more perseverative 
responses and perseverative errors than ADHD-I.
CONCLUSION: The findings of this study revealed that executive function patterns 
are different in children with ADHD compared to normal children. In this study 
it was also found that ADHD subtypes are also different in terms of 
perseveration and response inhibition domains; ADHD-C has more deficits in these 
domains.

PMCID: PMC4361821
PMID: 25792987


1728. Ann Epidemiol. 2015 Apr;25(4):236-42. doi: 10.1016/j.annepidem.2014.11.013. Epub 
2014 Nov 20.

A population-based prospective birth cohort study of childhood neurocognitive 
and psychological functioning in healthy survivors of early life meningitis.

Khandaker GM(1), Stochl J(2), Zammit S(3), Lewis G(4), Jones PB(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK; National 
Institute for Health Research Biomedical Research Centre, Cambridge, UK; 
Cambridgeshire and Peterborough NHS Foundation Trust, Cambridge, UK. Electronic 
address: gmk24@medscl.cam.ac.uk.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK; National 
Institute for Health Research Biomedical Research Centre, Cambridge, UK; 
Cambridgeshire and Peterborough NHS Foundation Trust, Cambridge, UK; Department 
of Health Sciences, University of York, UK.
(3)Centre for Mental Health, Addiction and Suicide Research, School of Social 
and Community Medicine, University of Bristol, UK; Institute of Psychological 
Medicine and Clinical Neurosciences, MRC Centre for Neuropsychiatric Genetics 
and Genomics, Cardiff University, UK.
(4)Centre for Mental Health, Addiction and Suicide Research, School of Social 
and Community Medicine, University of Bristol, UK; Division of Psychiatry, 
University College London, London, UK.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK; National 
Institute for Health Research Biomedical Research Centre, Cambridge, UK; 
Cambridgeshire and Peterborough NHS Foundation Trust, Cambridge, UK.

PURPOSE: To determine neurocognitive, educational, and psychological functioning 
during childhood and early adolescence among survivors of early life meningitis 
who are apparently healthy.
METHODS: In the general population-based Avon Longitudinal Study of Parents and 
Children birth cohort, meningitis exposure was determined at age of 18 months. 
The outcomes of intelligence quotient, short-term memory, working memory, 
reading and spelling abilities, psychological and behavioral problems, 
depressive and anxiety symptoms, and psychotic experiences at ages 9 to 13 years 
were compared between those exposed and unexposed to meningitis. Individuals 
with special educational needs were excluded.
RESULTS: By age of 18 months, 67 of 11,035 children were reported to have 
suffered from meningitis (0.61%). These children, compared with the unexposed, 
performed worse on all neurocognitive and educational measures; mean difference 
in total intelligence quotient 7.36 (95% confidence interval, 1.60-13.11). 
Meningitis was associated with higher depressive and anxiety symptoms (P = .02), 
psychological and behavioral problems (P = .09), and increased risk of psychotic 
experiences; risk ratio 2.22 (95% confidence interval, 1.12-4.38).
CONCLUSIONS: Exposure to meningitis in the early life is associated with 
neurocognitive, educational, and psychological difficulties during childhood and 
early adolescence among survivors who are apparently healthy. Therefore, 
focusing only on serious neurologic disabilities may underestimate the true 
impact of early life meningitis.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.annepidem.2014.11.013
PMCID: PMC4560168
PMID: 25794764 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1729. Eur J Pers. 2015 Jan;29(1):42-54. doi: 10.1002/per.1976. Epub 2014 Nov 5.

An Examination of a New Psychometric Method for Optimizing Multi-Faceted 
Assessment Instruments in the Context of Trait Emotional Intelligence.

Siegling AB(1), Petrides KV(1), Martskvishvili K(2).

Author information:
(1)London Psychometric Laboratory, University College London London, UK.
(2)London Psychometric Laboratory, University College London London, UK ; 
Tbilisi State University Tbilisi, Georgia.

Driven by the challenge of representing and measuring psychological attributes, 
this article outlines a psychometric method aimed at identifying problem facets. 
The method, which integrates theoretical and empirical steps, is applied in the 
context of the construct of trait emotional intelligence (trait EI), using data 
from six different samples (N = 1284) collected across Europe. Alternative 
representations of the trait EI variance, derived from the outcome variables 
used in previous validation studies of the Trait Emotional Intelligence 
Questionnaire, were regressed on the 15 trait EI facets using the stepwise 
method. The analyses revealed five facets, which did not occupy unique construct 
variance in any of the six samples. As expected, a composite of the remaining 10 
facets consistently showed greater construct validity than the original 15-facet 
composite. Implications for construct and scale development are discussed, and 
directions for further validation of the method and for its application to other 
constructs are provided. © 2014 The Authors. European Journal of Personality 
published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of European Association of 
Personality Psychology.

DOI: 10.1002/per.1976
PMCID: PMC4359043
PMID: 25798028


1730. Iran J Psychiatry. 2014 Oct;9(4):209-15.

The effectiveness of computerized cognitive rehabilitation training program in 
improving cognitive abilities of schizophrenia clients.

Mohammadi MR(1), Keshavarzi Z(2), Talepasand S(3).

Author information:
(1)Psychiatric and Psychology Research Center, Department of Psychiatriy and 
Psychology, Roozbeh Hospital, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran.
(2)Mental Health Clinic, 372, Dastgerdi (Zafar) Street, Valie Asr Ave., Tehran, 
Iran.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, Faculty of Psychology & Educational Sciences, 
Semnan University, Semnan, Iran.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of a computer - 
based training program of attention, memory and executive functions in enhancing 
neuropsychological performances as well as functional outcome in clients with 
schizophrenia.
METHOD: A total of 15 clinically stable out patients with Diagnostic and 
Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-IV-TR) criteria for schizophrenia, 
diagnosed with different types of schizophrenia: paranoid, disorganized, 
residual, based on DSM- IV-TR were selected to participate in this study. All 
patients were randomly selected using a conventional sampling method and 
assigned to 60 hours individual sessions of computer - assisted cognitive 
remediation (CACR).This was a pre- experimental study with pretest and posttest 
in a single group. Cognitive functions were checked with Continuous Performance 
Test (CPT), Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale (Wds) and Prospective and 
Retrospective Memory Questionnaire (PRMQ). The symptoms of patients were 
measured with the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS). Remediation was 
performed utilizing the Rehacome® software. Patients received the cognitive 
remediation program including attention, concentration and working memory. All 
participants were followed up after an interval of one month and three months. 
Data were analyzed using repeated measures analysis.
RESULT: After 3 months, the findings showed that patients' scores improved in 
the time factor. Also, a significant improvement favoring cognitive remediation 
was found in several cognitive measures including Reaction Time (F = 4015p<.05, 
Eta = 0.242), Wds (F = 11.806, p<.05,Eta = .48) PRMQ1(F = 3.314, p<.05, Eta = 
0.20) PRMQ7(F = 2.85, p<.05, Eta = 0.18).
CONCLUSION: Computer-assisted cognitive remediation training program was 
effective in improving the performance of schizophrenic patients. CACR did not 
have any effects on the positive and negative symptoms. Long- term follow-up 
studies are needed to confirm the maintenance of such improvements.

PMCID: PMC4361823
PMID: 25802533


1731. Rev Sci Tech. 2014 Dec;33(3):947-55.

Development of a seroprevalence map for avian influenza in broiler chickens from 
Comunidad Valenciana, Spain.

[No authors listed]

The aim of this study was to design and implement a seroprevalence map based on 
business intelligence for low pathogenicity notifiable avian influenza (LPNAI) 
in broilerchickens in Comunidad Valenciana (Spain). The software mapping tool 
developed for this study consisted of three main phases: data collection, data 
analysis and data representation. To obtain the serological data, the authors 
analysed 8,520 serum samples from broiler farms over three years. The data were 
represented on a map of Comunidad Valenciana, including geographical information 
of flock locations to facilitate disease monitoring. No clinical signs of LPNAI 
were reported in the studied flocks. The data from this study showed no evidence 
of contact with LPNAI in broiler flocks and the novel software mapping tool 
proved a valuable method for easily monitoring on the serological response to 
avian influenza information, including geographical information.

PMID: 25812218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1732. Res Autism Spectr Disord. 2014 Jun 1;8(6):644-653. doi: 
10.1016/j.rasd.2014.03.003.

Pupillary responses during a joint attention task are associated with nonverbal 
cognitive abilities and sub-clinical symptoms of autism.

Erstenyuk V(1), Swanson MR(2), Siller M(2).

Author information:
(1)Hunter College, City University of New York, 695 Park Avenue, New York, NY 
10065, USA.
(2)Hunter College, City University of New York, 695 Park Avenue, New York, NY 
10065, USA ; The Graduate Center of City University of New York, 365 Fifth 
Avenue, New York, NY 10016-4309, USA.

Measures of pupillary dilation provide a temporally sensitive, quantitative 
indicator of cognitive resource allocation. The current study included 39 
typically developing children between 3 and 9 years of age. Children completed a 
free-viewing task designed to elicit gaze following, a core deficit of Autism 
Spectrum Disorders (ASD). Results revealed a negative association between 
children's pupil dilation and a standardized measure of nonverbal intelligence, 
suggesting that children with lower intelligence allocated more cognitive 
resources than children with higher intelligence. In addition, the results 
revealed a negative association between pupil dilation and a parent-report 
measure of sub-clinical symptoms of ASD, suggesting that children with fewer 
ASD-related symptoms allocated more cognitive resources than children who showed 
more sub-clinical symptoms of ASD. Both associations were independent of each 
other and could not be explained by variation in chronological age. These 
findings extend previous research demonstrating associations between basic 
aspects of visual processing and intelligence. In addition, these findings 
comport with recent theories of ASD that emphasize reduced sensitivity to the 
reward value of social situations. When confronted with social ambiguity, 
children with more ASD-related symptoms allocated fewer cognitive resources to 
resolving this ambiguity than children who showed fewer sub-clinical symptoms of 
ASD.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rasd.2014.03.003
PMCID: PMC4376279
PMID: 25821516


1733. Cognit Ther Res. 2015 Apr;39(2):120-139. doi: 10.1007/s10608-014-9652-6. Epub 
2014 Nov 2.

The role of implicit theories in mental health symptoms, emotion regulation, and 
hypothetical treatment choices in college students.

Schroder HS(1), Dawood S(2), Yalch MM(1), Donnellan MB(3), Moser JS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Michigan State University.
(2)Department of Psychology, The Pennsylvania State University.
(3)Department of Psychology, Texas A&M University.

Beliefs about how much people can change their attributes - implicit theories - 
influence affective and cognitive responses to performance and subsequent 
motivation. Those who believe their attributes are fixed view setbacks as 
threatening and avoid challenging situations. In contrast, those who believe 
these attributes are malleable embrace challenges as opportunities to grow. 
Although implicit theories would seem to have important mental health 
implications, the research linking them with clinical applications is limited. 
To address this gap, we assessed how implicit theories of anxiety, emotion, 
intelligence, and personality related to various symptoms of anxiety and 
depression, emotion-regulation strategies, and hypothetical treatment choices 
(e.g., medication versus therapy) in two undergraduate samples. Across both 
samples, individuals who believed their attributes could change reported fewer 
mental health symptoms, greater use of cognitive reappraisal, and were more 
likely to choose individual therapy over medication. These findings suggest that 
implicit theories may play an important role in the nature and treatment of 
mental health problems.

DOI: 10.1007/s10608-014-9652-6
PMCID: PMC9037854
PMID: 35474696

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: Hans S. Schroder, Sindes 
Dawood, Matthew M. Yalch, M. Brent Donnellan, and Jason S. Moser declare that 
they have no conflict of interest. The first author is supported by a National 
Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship (NSF Award No. DGE – 0802267) 
and the third author is funded by the National Institutes of Health (grant 
HD065879). Any opinion, findings, conclusions or recommendations expressed in 
this material are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the views 
of these funding agencies.


1734. Prof Inferm. 2014 Oct-Dec;67(4):203-10. doi: 10.7429/pi.2014.674203.

[Emotional Leadership: a survey on the emotional skills expressed by nursing 
management].

[Article in Italian; Abstract available in Italian from the publisher]

Spagnuolo A(1), De Santis M(2), Torretta C(3), Filippi M(4), Talucci C(5).

Author information:
(1)Coordinatore infermieristico UOC Malattie infettive, Dipartimento di Igiene e 
Sanità pubblica, Policlinico A. Gemelli, UCSC, Roma. 
Corrispondenza: spagnuoloantonella@libero.it.
(2)Infermiere strumentista Sala operatoria ortopedia, Dipartimento di emergenza, 
Policlinico A. Gemelli, UCSC, Roma.
(3)Coordinatore infermieristico Formazione permanente e aggiornamento continuo 
DITRO, Az- ospedaliera S. Camillo Forlanini, Roma.
(4)Dirigente infermieristico U.O. Professioni Sanitarie, ULSS 10 Veneto 
Orientale.
(5)Infermiere UOC Endocrinochirurgia, Docente a c., Tutor corso di laurea 
magistrale in scienze infermieristiche e ostetriche, Dipartimento di Scienze 
chirurgiche, Policlinico A. Gemelli, UCSC, Roma.

INTRODUCTION: The emotional leadership applied to nursing management is a new 
topic in the Italian nursing literature, but of great interest internationally. 
There is a close correlation between nursing leaders with a well-developed 
emotional intelligence and nurses working well-being.
SCOPE: This study investigates knowledge about the emotional leadership and 
emotional competence in nursing management.
METHODS: The survey was conducted using a questionnaire devised for the purpose, 
validated and administered to 130 managers, head nurses and nurses in a hospital 
in Rome.
RESULTS: Analysis of data shows a great interest in the subject. 90% of the 
sample showed that it is essential for managerial roles, be aware and able to 
manage their own and others' emotions to generate wellbeing at work. Emotional 
competencies are considered important just as theoretical, technical and social 
skills to a effective leadership on nursing.
CONCLUSIONS: This study is one of the first Italian survey on the importance of 
the development of emotional intelligence in nursing leadership to improve 
wellbeing at work. Results of the survey should be confirmed by further studies. 
The emotional skills could be improved in nursing education programs and used as 
a yardstick for the nursing managers selection.

Publisher: INTRODUZIONE: La leadership emozionale applicata al management 
infermieristico è un argomento nuovo nella letteratura infermieristica italiana, 
ma di grande interesse a livello internazionale. Esiste una stretta correlazione 
tra leader infermieristici formali dotati di una sviluppata intelligenza emotiva 
e benessere lavorativo degli infermieri.
SCOPO: Questo studio indaga le conoscenze sulla leadership emozionale e sulle 
competenze emozionali nei ruoli manageriali infermieristici.
METODO: L’indagine è stata condotta utilizzando un questionario costruito 
appositamente, opportunamente validato e somministrato a 130 tra dirigenti e 
coordinatori infermieristici e infermieri di un ospedale romano.
RISULTATI: Dall’analisi dei dati emerge un grande interesse per l’argomento 
trattato. Il 90% del campione ha evidenziato quanto sia fondamentale, per i 
ruoli manageriali infermieristici, essere consapevoli e saper gestire le proprie 
e le altrui emozioni per generare benessere lavorativo. Le competenze emozionali 
sono considerate importanti come quelle teoriche, tecniche e sociali per una 
leadership infermieristica efficace.
CONCLUSIONI: Questo studio è una delle prime indagini italiane sull'importanza 
dello sviluppo dell'intelligenza emotiva nella leadership infermieristica per 
migliorare il benessere lavorativo. La validità dell’indagine deve essere 
confermata da ulteriori studi. Le competenze emozionali potrebbero essere 
migliorate nei programmi di formazione infermieristica e utilizzate come 
parametro di valutazione durante la selezione dei manager infermieristici.

DOI: 10.7429/pi.2014.674203
PMID: 25837475 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1735. Chin Clin Oncol. 2014 Mar;3(1):4. doi: 10.3978/j.issn.2304-3865.2014.01.03.

Reducing late effects of radiotherapy in average risk medulloblastoma.

Ibrahim NY(1), Abdel Aal HH(2), Abdel Kader MS(3), Makaar WS(2), Shaaban AH(3).

Author information:
(1)Oncology and Nuclear Medicine Department, Kasr Al-Ainy Center of Clinical 
Oncology & Nuclear Medicine (NEMROCK), Kasr Al-Ainy School of Medicine, Cairo 
University, Egypt. dr.noha11@hotmail.com.
(2)Oncology and Nuclear Medicine Department, Kasr Al-Ainy Center of Clinical 
Oncology & Nuclear Medicine (NEMROCK), Kasr Al-Ainy School of Medicine, Cairo 
University, Egypt.
(3)Oncology Department, Beny Seweef School of Medicine, Beny Sweef University, 
Egypt.

PURPOSE: To assess the efficacy and safety in average-risk pediatric 
medulloblastoma (MB) receiving tumor bed boost irradiation compared to a 
posterior fossa (PF) boost.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Thirty patients were enrolled in the study and divided 
evenly into two treatment arms of 15. Both arms received 23.4 Gy craniospinal 
irradiation (CS) and a 32.4 Gy boost. Patients in arm 1 were given PF boosts, 
and those in arm 2 were given boosts to the gross target volume (GTV). Weekly 
oncovin was given throughout all radiotherapy (RT). Eight cycles of adjuvant 
chemotherapy of CCNU, oncovin and platinol were given to all patients after RT. 
MRI, pure tone audiogram (PTA) and intelligence quotient (IQ) tests were 
performed before and after RT and every three months thereafter.
RESULTS: There were significant differences in the sparing dose to the cochlea 
and brain stem as well as the volume of the normal brain receiving a 100% dose. 
There was a significant initial improvement of hearing function in patients 
given the target volume boost after RT, which was lost after chemotherapy. With 
a median follow up of 23 months, there was no difference in progression free 
survival or overall survival between the two arms.
CONCLUSIONS: Irradiation of the tumor bed after 23.4 Gy craniospinal irradiation 
for average-risk MB results in similar disease control as a PF boost. Dosimetric 
sparing for the cochleae and normal tissue is evident in patients receiving 
tumor bed boosts. The hearing improvement and cognitive function preservation 
effects of the treatment need more follow up.

DOI: 10.3978/j.issn.2304-3865.2014.01.03
PMID: 25842082


1736. Arch Psychiatr Nurs. 2015 Apr;29(2):90-5. doi: 10.1016/j.apnu.2014.11.003. Epub 
2014 Nov 18.

Effects of teaching communication skills using a video clip on a smart phone on 
communication competence and emotional intelligence in nursing students.

Choi Y(1), Song E(2), Oh E(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nursing, Wonkwang Health Science University, South Korea.
(2)Department of Nursing, Wonkwang University, South Korea. Electronic address: 
chanjun@wku.ac.kr.

This study aims to verify the communication skills training for nursing students 
by using a video clip on a smart phone. The study settings were the nursing 
departments of two universities in South Korea. This study was a 
quasi-experimental one using a nonequivalent control group pre-posttest design. 
The experimental and control groups consisted of second-year nursing students 
who had taken a communication course. The experimental group included 45 
students, and the control group included 42 students. The experimental group 
improved more significantly than the control group in communication competence 
and emotional intelligence. Using a video clip on a smart phone is helpful for 
communication teaching method.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.apnu.2014.11.003
PMID: 25858200 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1737. Sheng Wu Yi Xue Gong Cheng Xue Za Zhi. 2014 Dec;31(6):1373-6.

[Study on the control of dynamic artificial limb ankle based on central pattern 
generator].

[Article in Chinese]

Guo X, Xu C, Li M, Su L.

In order to obtain the normal gait for the prosthesis-carrier with the change of 
external environment and gait, we designed a model of dynamic ankle prosthesis 
and control system and introduced the strategy of central pattern generator 
(CPG) about the moving trail of dynamic ankle prosthesis. The dynamic parts, 
which are incorporated in the model of dynamic ankle prosthesis, provide power 
in order to have anthropic function and character. The tool of Matlab/simulink 
was used to simulate the strategy. The simulation results showed that the 
strategy of CPG learn- ing control in this study was effective and could track 
the reference trail rapidly and fit the moving trail of a person's normal limb. 
It can make the prosthetic timely regulation and action, enhance the prosthetic 
intelligence. It has im- portant practical value for intelligent prosthesis 
development based on this analysis of technology.

PMID: 25868262 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1738. Zhongguo Zhen Jiu. 2014 Dec;34(12):1156-60.

[Clinical observation of Alzheimer's disease treated with acupuncture].

[Article in Chinese]

Gu W, Jin XX, Zhang YJ, Li ZJ, Kong Y.

OBJECTIVE: To compare the differences in the clinical efficacy on Alzheimer's 
disease between acupuncture and medicine.
METHODS: One hundred and forty-one patients were randomized into an acupuncture 
group (72 cases) and a medicine group (69 cases). In the acupuncture group, the 
needling technique for benefiting qi, promoting blood circulation, regulating 
mind and improving intelligence was used at Shenting (GV 24), Baihui (GV 20), 
Fengchi (GB 20), Wangu (GB 12), Danzhong (CV 17), Zhangwan (CV 12), Qihai (CV 
6), Xuehai (SP 10) and Zusanli (ST 36). The supplementary acupoints were 
selected according to the symptoms and physical signs. Acupuncture was given 
once a day and 6 treatments were required for a week. In the medicine group, the 
choline sterase inhibitor, donepezil (aricept) was prescribed for oral 
administration, 1 tablet (5 mg) each time, once every night. Four weeks later, 
the dose was increased to 2 tablets (10 mg) each time. In the two groups, the 
treatment of 4 weeks made one session and 4 sessions were required. The changes 
of scores before and after treatment in the minimum mental state examination 
(MMSE), the activity of daily living scale (ADL), Alzheimer's disease assessment 
scale-cognition (ADAS-cog) and the digit span (DS) were observed.
RESULTS: After treatment, scores of MMSE and DS were increased as compared with 
those before treatment (both P < 0.05) and scores of ADL and ADAS-cog were 
reduced as compared with those before treatment. The score differences in MMSE, 
ADL, ADAS-cog and DS before and after treatment were significant in the two 
groups (all P < 0.01).
CONCLUSION: The needling technique for benefiting qi, promoting blood 
circulation, regulating mind and improving intelligence significantly improves 
the overall function, cognition and activity of daily life in the patients of 
Alzheimer's disease and the efficacy is better than donepezil.

PMID: 25876339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1739. Zhongguo Zhen Jiu. 2014 Dec;34(12):1179-83.

[Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder treated with scalp acupuncture and EEG 
biofeedback therapy in children: a randomized controlled trial].

[Article in Chinese]

He CD, Lang BX, Jin LQ, Li B.

OBJECTIVE: To compare the difference in clinical efficacy on children attention 
deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) between the combined therapy of scalp 
acupuncture and EGG biofeedback and the simple EEG biofeedback therapy so as to 
search the better therapeutic method for ADHD.
METHODS: One hundred patients were randomized into an observation group and a 
control group, 50 cases in each one. In the control group, the simple EEG 
biofeedback therapy was adopted. In the observation group, on the basis of 
biofeedback therapy, scalp acupuncture was added and applied to Dingzhongxian 
(MS 5), Dingpangyixian (MS 8), Baihui (GV 20), Sishencong (EX-HN 1), etc. The 
ten treatments made one session. After four sessions of treatment, FIQ value in 
Wechsler intelligence scale, CIH score in Conners children behavior 
questionnaire, the ratio of 0 wave and p wave in EEG, FRCQ and FAQ in the 
integrated visual and auditory continuous performance test (IVA-CPT) and 
clinical comprehensive efficacy were observed before and after treatment in the 
two groups separately.
RESULTS: Three cases were dropped out in the observation group and 2 cases were 
out in the control group. In the two groups, FIQ, FRCQ and FAQ were all 
increased after treatment (P < 0.01, P < 0.05); the increases in the observation 
group were much more significant than those in the control group after treatment 
(all P < 0.05). In the two groups, CIH score and the ratio of 0 wave and p wave 
were all reduced after treatment (P < 0.01, P < 0.05); the reduction in the 
observation group were much more apparent as compared with those in the control 
group (both P< 0.05). The total effective rate was 91.5% (43/47) in the 
observation group and better than 83. 3% (40/48, P < 0.01) in the control group.
CONCLUSION: The combined therapy of scalp acupuncture and EEG biofeedback 
achieves the superior efficacy on children ADHD as compared with the simple 
biofeedback therapy. This combined therapy rapidly relieves the essential 
symptoms of ADHD and improves EEG waveform in children patients. Importantly, 
this therapy obtains and consolidates the significant efficacy.

PMID: 25876346 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1740. Indian J Physiol Pharmacol. 2014 Jul-Sep;58(3):280-3.

Functional status of auditory pathways in children with borderline intellectual 
functioning: evoked potential study.

Khaliq F, Anjana Y, Vaney N.

The present study was undertaken to determine whether impairment of sensory 
conduction in the auditory pathway is one of the contributory factors of 
performance in children with borderline intelligence. The study was conducted on 
children having borderline intelligence (IQ 71-84). The functional integrity of 
the central auditory pathway was assessed using Auditory Evoked Responses i.e. 
Auditory Brainstem response (ABR), Mid Latency Response (MLR) and Slow Vertex 
Response (SVR). The recordings were done using a computerized evoked potential 
recorder by 10-20 electrode placement system. There was no significant 
difference in the absolute peak latencies, the interpeak latencies and amplitude 
of ABR in the subjects as compared to controls. There was prolongation of the 
latency of MLR and SVR waves in subjects though not statistically significant 
indicating no conduction abnormality in the auditory pathway of the study 
subjects. Electrophysiological methods reveal underlying immaturity or abnormal 
brainstem timing and may serve as reliable tool in individuals with learning 
difficulties.

PMID: 25906612 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1741. Balkan J Med Genet. 2015 Apr 10;17(2):25-35. doi: 10.2478/bjmg-2014-0071. 
eCollection 2014 Dec.

Intellectual ability in the duchenne muscular dystrophy and dystrophin gene 
mutation location.

Milic Rasic V(1), Vojinovic D(2), Pesovic J(3), Mijalkovic G(2), Lukic V(2), 
Mladenovic J(2), Kosac A(2), Novakovic I(4), Maksimovic N(4), Romac S(3), 
Todorovic S(2), Savic Pavicevic D(3).

Author information:
(1)Clinic for Neurology and Psychiatry for Children and Youth, Belgrade, Serbia 
; Faculty of Medicine, University of Belgrade, Belgrade, Serbia.
(2)Clinic for Neurology and Psychiatry for Children and Youth, Belgrade, Serbia.
(3)Center for Human Molecular Genetics, Faculty of Biology, University of 
Belgrade, Belgrade, Serbia.
(4)Institute of Human Genetics, Faculty of Medicine, University of Belgrade, 
Belgrade, Serbia.

Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is the most common form of muscular dystrophy 
during childhood. Mutations in dystrophin (DMD) gene are also recognized as a 
cause of cognitive impairment. We aimed to determine the association between 
intelligence level and mutation location in DMD genes in Serbian patients with 
DMD. Forty-one male patients with DMD, aged 3 to 16 years, were recruited at the 
Clinic for Neurology and Psychiatry for Children and Youth in Belgrade, Serbia. 
All patients had defined DMD gene deletions or duplications [multiplex 
ligation-dependent probe amplification (MLPA), polymerase chain reaction (PCR)] 
and cognitive status assessment (Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children, 
Brunet-Lezine scale, Vineland-Doll scale). In 37 patients with an estimated full 
scale intelligence quotient (FSIQ), six (16.22%) had borderline intelligence 
(70<FSIQ ≤85), while seven (18.92%) were intellectually impaired (FSIQ <70). The 
FSIQ was not associated with proximal and distal mutations when boundaries were 
set at exons 30 and 45. However, FSIQ was statistically significantly associated 
with mutation location when we assumed their functional consequence on 
dystrophin isoforms and when mutations in the 5'-untranslated region (5'UTR) of 
Dp140 (exons 45-50) were assigned to affect only Dp427 and Dp260. Mutations 
affecting Dp140 and Dp71/Dp40 have been associated with more frequent and more 
severe cognitive impairment. Finally, the same classification of mutations 
explained the greater proportion of FSIQ variability associated with cumulative 
loss of dystrophin isoforms. In conclusion, cumulative loss of dystrophin 
isoforms increases the risk of intellectual impairment in DMD and characterizing 
the genotype can define necessity of early cognitive interventions in DMD 
patients.

DOI: 10.2478/bjmg-2014-0071
PMCID: PMC4413439
PMID: 25937795


1742. Balkan J Med Genet. 2015 Apr 10;17(2):81-5. doi: 10.2478/bjmg-2014-0078. 
eCollection 2014 Dec.

X-Linked Recessive form of Nephrogenic Diabetes Insipidus in a 7-Year-Old Boy.

Janchevska A(1), Tasic V(1), Gucev Z(1), Krstevska-Konstantinova M(1), Cheong 
HI(2).

Author information:
(1)University Children's Hospital Skopje, Medical Faculty, Skopje, Macedonia.
(2)Seoul National University Children's Hospital, Seoul, Korea ; Research 
Coordination Center for Rare Diseases, Seoul National University Hospital, 
Seoul, Korea ; Kidney Research Institute, Medical Research Center, Seoul 
National University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus (NDI) is caused by the inability of renal 
collecting duct cells to respond to arginine vasopressin (AVP)/antidiuretic 
hormone (ADH). We present the case of a 7-year-old boy with a history of 
excretion of large amounts of dilute urine and polydipsia since infancy. The boy 
had several vomiting episodes with mild dehydration during the first 3 years of 
life. There was no evidence of headaches, dizziness or visual problems. He 
drinks between 2 and 3 L/day and has 24-hour diuresis of 2 liters, now. He has 
prepubertal appearance with appropriate weight [+0.85 standard deviation score 
(SDS)] and height (+0.15 SDS) for his age. His intelligence was also normal. The 
water deprivation test showed low urine osmolality after 8 hours of dehydration. 
After desmopressin administration, urine osmolality remained low. Serum 
osmolality was in the normal range for sex and age before and after desmopressin 
administration. This indicated a nephrogenic form of diabetes insipidus. 
Molecular analyses revealed a P286L [p.Pro(CCC)286Leu(CTC)] mutation in the 
AVPR2 gene, that was inherited from his mother. This patient is the first case 
with genetically confirmed X-linked inherited form of NDI in the Republic of 
Macedonia. Molecular analysis confirmed the clinical diagnosis and enabled 
genetic advice for this family.

DOI: 10.2478/bjmg-2014-0078
PMCID: PMC4413446
PMID: 25937802


1743. Gig Sanit. 2014 Nov-Dec;93(6):23-6.

[Neuropsychic development in preschool children in conditions of the 
informatization].

[Article in Russian]

Tkachuk EA, Tarmaeva IIu.

The new millennium was marked by the transition of humanity to a new stage of 
the development--the Information Society, which is an objective reality and 
affects on all aspects of living environment, including the health of children. 
The last decade was characterized by the increase of the use of means of 
informatization, the level of aggression and aggressiveness of children, the 
decrease of intellectual indices, deterioration of mental health, an increase of 
children with behavioral problems, hyperactivity, inattention, decrease of 
mental capacity. In a study on the example of preschool educational institution 
in the city of Irkutsk in the conditions of the changing of the informatization 
level of the society in the time period from 1998 to 2012, there were revealed 
the changes in indices of intellectual development, mental capacity and anxiety 
of children. Under observation there were 211 children aged from 5.5 to 6.5 
years in the preschool institution of the central district of the city of 
Irkutsk. There were formed two groups of children: I group--children who 
attended kindergarten in 1998 and group II--children attending kindergarten in 
2012. Age groups of preschool children were consistent with their calendar age: 
from 5 years 5 months 30 days to 6 years 5 months 30 days. In the study of 
intellectual development there has been shown the decrease of the number of 
children with average intelligence level and an increase in children with the 
below-average intelligence level, the increase of the speed (p < 0.05.) and the 
decrease of the quality (p < 0.05.) of the information processing in the Anfilov 
test for the mental performance and the increase the general level of anxiety, 
aggressive background and unmotivated fears "out" at the present time stage 
(2012).

PMID: 25950041 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1744. Ann Saudi Med. 2014 Nov-Dec;34(6):517-21. doi: 10.5144/0256-4947.2014.517.

Disruptive behavior in Down syndrome children: a cross-sectional comparative 
study.

Yahia S, El-Hadidy M(1), El-Gilany AH, Amdel-Hady D, Wahba Y, Al-Haggar M.

Author information:
(1)Abdel-Hady El-Hadidy, MD, Faculty of Medicine, Department of Public Health,, 
Mansoura University, Mansoura 35516,, Egypt 00201060714481, ahgilany@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Down syndrome (DS) is associated with intellectual 
disability, and patients with DS show significant psychopathology. The 
objectives of this study were to estimate the prevalence of disruptive behavior 
in DS patients compared to their siblings, and to find any association between 
the disruptive behavior and the degree of intelligence.
DESIGN AND SETTINGS: This is a cross-sectional comparative study done in 
Mansoura University Children's Hospital during the period March 1, 2012-February 
28, 2013.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: In this study, 100 cases of DS and an equal number of 
their brothers/sisters were enrolled in the study. The Arabic version of 
Vineland Adaptive Behavior Scale was used for assessing social and mental 
intelligence quotient (IQ). The Arabic version of Mini International 
Neuropsychiatric Interview for Children (MINI-KID) and disruptive behavior 
disorder (DBD) rating scale were used for assessing disruptive behavior 
disorders.
RESULTS: Both social and mental IQs were significantly higher in non-DS than in 
DS cases. The prevalence of different variants of attention deficit/hyperactive 
disorder (ADHD)-impulsive, inattentive, and combined types-was significantly 
lower in non-DS than in DS cases; however, there was no statistical difference 
between both groups as regards oppositional defiant disorder and conduct 
disorder (CD). Also among DS cases, impulsive and combined types varied 
significantly with the degree of their IQ.
CONCLUSION: ADHD was more common among DS patients with a special impact of IQ 
on the type of psychiatric illness. We recommend psychiatric assessment for DS 
patients as a part of multidisciplinary management.

DOI: 10.5144/0256-4947.2014.517
PMCID: PMC6074581
PMID: 25971826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1745. J Am Coll Dent. 2014 Fall;81(4):24-9.

Practice transition with intelligence and grace.

Boyd MA.

Erratum in
    J Am Coll Dent. 2015 Spring;82(2):5.

Viable practices change with the professional and personal needs of dentists and 
with trends in society. There is no single way for transitioning out of 
practice--concluding a direct sale, remaining as an associate, and even 
purchasing a new practice to better match one's more mature lifestyle and 
practiced preferences. Changing ratios of dentists to patients currently favor a 
seller's market and emergence of corporate models provide new options. An 
analysis is given of the Canadian practice market. Planning advice is also 
offered.

PMID: 25975121 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1746. Iran J Public Health. 2014 Nov;43(11):1550-6.

Emotional Intelligence (EI) of Patients with Multiple Sclerosis (MS).

Ghajarzadeh M(1), Owji M(2), Sauraian MA(2), Naser Moghadasi A(2), Azimi A(2).

Author information:
(1)1. Dept. of Neurology, Brain and Spinal Cord Injury Research Center, Tehran 
University of Medical Sciences , Tehran, Iran.
(2)2. MS Research Center, Neuroscience Institute, Sina Hospital, Tehran 
University of Medical Sciences , Tehran, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Multiple sclerosis (MS) is an autoimmune disease that affects 
physical and emotional aspects of patient's lives. The aim of this study was to 
evaluate Emotional Intelligence (EI) in cases with MS.
METHODS: One hundred sixty six clinically definite MS and 110 healthy subjects 
were enrolled in this study. All participants filled valid and reliable Persian 
version Emotional Quotient inventory (EQ-i) questionnaire, which had been 
developed due to Bar-On model.
RESULTS: Mean EI total score and 12 out of 15 subscales were significantly 
different between patients and controls. Total EI score and most of its 
subscales were significantly higher in patients with RR (Relapsing Remitting) 
than Secondary Progressive (SP) ones. There was significant negative correlation 
between EDSS and total EI score (rho=-0.4, P<0.001). Multiple linear regression 
analysis between the EI as a dependent variable and sex, type of disease, level 
of education, age and marital status as independent variables in patients showed 
that type of disease and level of education were independent predictors of EI.
CONCLUSION: Emotional intelligence as the ability to behave better and 
communicate with others should be considered in MS cases as their physical and 
psychological health are affected by their illness.

PMCID: PMC4449505
PMID: 26060723


1747. Neuroimage Clin. 2014 Dec 27;8:440-7. doi: 10.1016/j.nicl.2014.12.015. 
eCollection 2015.

Thalamic-hippocampal-prefrontal disruption in relapsing-remitting multiple 
sclerosis.

Kern KC(1), Gold SM(2), Lee B(1), Montag M(3), Horsfall J(3), O'Connor MF(4), 
Sicotte NL(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(2)Institute for Neuroimmunology and Clinical Multiple Sclerosis Research, 
University Hospital Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany.
(3)Department of Neurology, University of California Los Angeles, Los Angeles, 
CA, USA.
(4)Department of Psychology, University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ, USA.
(5)Department of Neurology, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Los Angeles, CA, USA ; 
Department of Neurology, University of California Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, 
USA.

BACKGROUND: Cortical, thalamic and hippocampal gray matter atrophy in 
relapsing-remitting MS (RRMS) is associated cognitive deficits. However, the 
role of interconnecting white matter pathways including the fornix, cingulum, 
and uncinate fasciculus (UF) is less well studied.
OBJECTIVE: To assess MS damage to a hippocampal-thalamic-prefrontal network and 
the relative contributions of its components to specific cognitive domains.
METHODS: We calculated diffusion tensor fractional anisotropy (FA) in the 
fornix, cingulum and UF as well as thalamic and hippocampal volumes in 27 RRMS 
patients and 20 healthy controls. A neuropsychological battery was administered 
and 4 core tests known to be sensitive to MS changes were used to assess 
cognitive impairment. To determine the relationships between structure and 
cognition, all tests were grouped into 4 domains: attention/executive function, 
processing speed, verbal memory, and spatial memory. Univariate correlations 
with structural measures and depressive symptoms identified potential 
contributors to cognitive performance and subsequent linear regression 
determined their relative effects on performance in each domain. For significant 
predictors, we also explored the effects of laterality and axial versus radial 
diffusivity.
RESULTS: RRMS patients had worse performance on the Symbol Digit Modalities 
Test, but no significant impairment in the 4 cognitive domains. RRMS had reduced 
mean FA of all 3 pathways and reduced thalamic and hippocampal volumes compared 
to controls. In RRMS we found that thalamic volume and BDI predicted 
attention/executive function, UF FA predicted processing speed, thalamic volume 
predicted verbal memory, and UF FA and BDI predicted spatial memory.
CONCLUSIONS: Hippocampal-thalamic-prefrontal disruption affects cognitive 
performance in early RRMS with mild to minimal cognitive impairment, confirming 
both white and gray matter involvement in MS and demonstrating utility in 
assessing functional networks to monitor cognition.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nicl.2014.12.015
PMCID: PMC4473119
PMID: 26106524 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1748. Neurophotonics. 2014 Oct;1(2):025007. doi: 10.1117/1.NPh.1.2.025007. Epub 2014 
Oct 1.

Neuropharmacological effect of atomoxetine on attention network in children with 
attention deficit hyperactivity disorder during oddball paradigms as assessed 
using functional near-infrared spectroscopy.

Nagashima M(1), Monden Y(1), Dan I(2), Dan H(3), Mizutani T(4), Tsuzuki D(5), 
Kyutoku Y(5), Gunji Y(6), Hirano D(7), Taniguchi T(7), Shimoizumi H(8), Momoi 
MY(9), Yamagata T(1), Watanabe E(3).

Author information:
(1)Jichi Medical University , Department of Pediatrics, 3311-1 Yakushiji, 
Shimotsuke, Tochigi 329-0498, Japan.
(2)Jichi Medical University , Department of Neurosurgery, 3311-1 Yakushiji, 
Shimotsuke, Tochigi 329-0498, Japan ; Chuo University , Applied Cognitive 
Neuroscience Laboratory, 1-13-27 Kasuga, Bunkyo, Tokyo 112-8551, Japan.
(3)Jichi Medical University , Department of Neurosurgery, 3311-1 Yakushiji, 
Shimotsuke, Tochigi 329-0498, Japan.
(4)Jichi Medical University , Department of Pediatrics, 3311-1 Yakushiji, 
Shimotsuke, Tochigi 329-0498, Japan ; Jichi Medical University , Functional 
Brain Science Laboratory, 3311-1 Yakushiji, Shimotsuke, Tochigi 329-0498, Japan.
(5)Chuo University , Applied Cognitive Neuroscience Laboratory, 1-13-27 Kasuga, 
Bunkyo, Tokyo 112-8551, Japan.
(6)Jichi Medical University , Department of Pediatrics, 3311-1 Yakushiji, 
Shimotsuke, Tochigi 329-0498, Japan ; International University of Health and 
Welfare , Department of Pediatrics, 537-3 Iguchi, Nasushiobara, Tochigi 
329-2763, Japan.
(7)International University of Health and Welfare , 2600-1, Kitakanemaru, 
Otawara, Tochigi 324-8501, Japan.
(8)International University of Health and Welfare , Rehabilitation Center, 
2600-1, Kitakanemaru, Otawara, Tochigi 324-8501, Japan.
(9)International University of Health and Welfare , Department of Pediatrics, 
537-3 Iguchi, Nasushiobara, Tochigi 329-2763, Japan ; International University 
of Health and Welfare , 2600-1, Kitakanemaru, Otawara, Tochigi 324-8501, Japan.

The current study aimed to explore the neural substrate for atomoxetine effects 
on attentional control in school-aged children with attention deficit 
hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) using functional near-infrared spectroscopy 
(fNIRS), which can be applied to young children with ADHD more easily than 
conventional neuroimaging modalities. Using fNIRS, we monitored the 
oxy-hemoglobin signal changes of 15 ADHD children (6 to 14 years old) performing 
an oddball task before and 1.5 h after atomoxetine or placebo administration, in 
a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover design. Fifteen age-, 
gender-, and intelligence quotient-matched normal controls without atomoxetine 
administration were also monitored. In the control subjects, the oddball task 
recruited the right prefrontal and inferior parietal cortices. The right 
prefrontal and parietal activation was normalized after atomoxetine 
administration in ADHD children. This was in contrast to our previous study 
using a similar protocol showing methylphenidate-induced normalization of only 
the right prefrontal function. fNIRS allows the detection of differential 
neuropharmacological profiles of both substances in the attentional network: the 
neuropharmacological effects of atomoxetine to upregulate the noradrenergic 
system reflected in the right prefrontal and inferior parietal activations and 
those of methylphenidate to upregulate the dopamine system reflected in the 
prefrontal cortex activation.

DOI: 10.1117/1.NPh.1.2.025007
PMCID: PMC4478726
PMID: 26157979


1749. Ayu. 2014 Oct-Dec;35(4):361-5. doi: 10.4103/0974-8520.158978.

A critical appraisal on Swarnaprashana in children.

Jyothy KB(1), Sheshagiri S(1), Patel KS(2), Rajagopala S(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Kaumarabhritya, Mahatma Gandhi Ayurved College, Hospital and 
Research Centre, Wardha, Maharashtra, India.
(2)Department of Kaumarabhritya, Institute for Post Graduate Teaching and 
Research in Ayurveda, Gujarat Ayurved University, Jamnagar, Gujarat, India.

Administration of processed gold in children is a unique practice mentioned in 
Ayurveda as "Swarnaprashana" by Acharya Kashyapa thousands of years back. He 
explained evidently the administration of Swarna (gold) in children for the 
benefits of improving intellect, digestion and metabolism, physical strength, 
immunity, complexion, fertility, and life span. There are various formulations 
of gold and even along with herbal drugs explained by different Acharya for 
prolonged usage in children. Swarnaprashana in children can be mainly implicated 
in two contexts of Ayurveda; Lehana (supplementary feeds) and Jatakarma Samskara 
(newborn care). This review is an effort to critically evaluate the available 
data, which may be helpful in clearing some of the existing fallacies on the 
topic. The age and method of administration, benefits and dosage as per various 
classical textbooks of Ayurveda are discussed here along with the reports of 
related scientific studies. This review proposes that the benefits of 
Swarnaprashana can be achieved at multiple levels like as a general health 
promoter and in specific to enhancement of intelligence, digestion, metabolism, 
immunity, physical strength, complexion, or fertility. Ayurveda recommends only 
purified and processed form of gold for internal administration. The age at 
which Swarnaprashana should be administered and its duration can be determined 
depending upon the desired effect in children as a positive health care program.

DOI: 10.4103/0974-8520.158978
PMCID: PMC4492018
PMID: 26195896

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None declared.


1750. J Adv Res. 2015 Jul;6(4):587-92. doi: 10.1016/j.jare.2014.02.002. Epub 2014 Feb 
14.

A unified classification model for modeling of seismic liquefaction potential of 
soil based on CPT.

Samui P(1), Hariharan R(2).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Disaster Mitigation and Management, VIT University, Vellore 
632014, India.
(2)Annai Mira College of Engineering and Technology, Department of Computer 
Science, Arapakam, Vellore 632517, India.

The evaluation of liquefaction potential of soil due to an earthquake is an 
important step in geosciences. This article examines the capability of Minimax 
Probability Machine (MPM) for the prediction of seismic liquefaction potential 
of soil based on the Cone Penetration Test (CPT) data. The dataset has been 
taken from Chi-Chi earthquake. MPM is developed based on the use of hyperplanes. 
It has been adopted as a classification tool. This article uses two models 
(MODEL I and MODEL II). MODEL I employs Cone Resistance (q c) and Cyclic Stress 
Ratio (CSR) as input variables. q c and Peak Ground Acceleration (PGA) have been 
taken as inputs for MODEL II. The developed MPM gives 100% accuracy. The results 
show that the developed MPM can predict liquefaction potential of soil based on 
q c and PGA.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jare.2014.02.002
PMCID: PMC4506965
PMID: 26199749


1751. Forensic Sci Rev. 2014 Jul;26(2):131-8.

Murder with Radioactive Polonium Metal.

Kato TA(1), Wozniak DE(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental and Radiological Health Sciences, Colorado State 
University, Fort Collins, CO, USA. takamitsu.kato@colostate.edu.
(2)Department of Environmental and Radiological Health Sciences, Colorado State 
University, Fort Collins, CO, USA.

The physical and biological aspects of polonium-210, one of the most hazardous 
radioisotopes, are summarized. Although this radioisotope is naturally occurring 
and rare, it received quite a bit of attention after it was used in the 2006 
assassination of former Russian Intelligence member Alexander Litvinenko in 
London. Recent reports on the suspected murder of Yasser Arafat with 
polonium-210 are also discussed.

Copyright © 2014 Central Police University.

PMID: 26227029


1752. Wiley Interdiscip Rev Cogn Sci. 2014 Nov;5(6):693-703. doi: 10.1002/wcs.1322. 
Epub 2014 Sep 23.

Is there a link between the crafting of tools and the evolution of cognition?

Taylor AH(1), Gray RD(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Psychology, University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand.
(2)Department of Philosophy, Australian National University, Canberra, 
Australia.
(3)Max Planck Institute for History and the Sciences, Jena, Germany.

The ability to craft tools is one of the defining features of our species. The 
technical intelligence hypothesis predicts that tool-making species should have 
enhanced physical cognition. Here we review how the physical problem-solving 
performance of tool-making apes and corvids compares to closely related species. 
We conclude that, while some performance differences have been found, overall 
the evidence is at best equivocal. We argue that increased sample sizes, novel 
experimental designs, and a signature-testing approach are required to determine 
the effect tool crafting has on the evolution of intelligence. WIREs Cogn Sci 
2014, 5:693-703. doi: 10.1002/wcs.1322 For further resources related to this 
article, please visit the WIREs website.
CONFLICT OF INTEREST: The authors have declared no conflicts of interest for 
this article.

© 2014 The Authors. WIREs Cognitive Science published by John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/wcs.1322
PMID: 26308874


1753. IEEE Trans Pattern Anal Mach Intell. 2014 Dec;36(12):2483-509. doi: 
10.1109/TPAMI.2014.2321570.

Learning Race from Face: A Survey.

Fu S, He H, Hou ZG.

Faces convey a wealth of social signals, including race, expression, identity, 
age and gender, all of which have attracted increasing attention from 
multi-disciplinary research, such as psychology, neuroscience, computer science, 
to name a few. Gleaned from recent advances in computer vision, computer 
graphics, and machine learning, computational intelligence based racial face 
analysis has been particularly popular due to its significant potential and 
broader impacts in extensive real-world applications, such as security and 
defense, surveillance, human computer interface (HCI), biometric-based 
identification, among others. These studies raise an important question: How 
implicit, non-declarative racial category can be conceptually modeled and 
quantitatively inferred from the face? Nevertheless, race classification is 
challenging due to its ambiguity and complexity depending on context and 
criteria. To address this challenge, recently, significant efforts have been 
reported toward race detection and categorization in the community. This survey 
provides a comprehensive and critical review of the state-of-the-art advances in 
face-race perception, principles, algorithms, and applications. We first discuss 
race perception problem formulation and motivation, while highlighting the 
conceptual potentials of racial face processing. Next, taxonomy of feature 
representational models, algorithms, performance and racial databases are 
presented with systematic discussions within the unified learning scenario. 
Finally, in order to stimulate future research in this field, we also highlight 
the major opportunities and challenges, as well as potentially important 
cross-cutting themes and research directions for the issue of learning race from 
face.

DOI: 10.1109/TPAMI.2014.2321570
PMID: 26353153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1754. IEEE Trans Vis Comput Graph. 2014 Dec;20(12):1633-42. doi: 
10.1109/TVCG.2014.2346573.

Supporting Communication and Coordination in Collaborative Sensemaking.

Mahyar N, Tory M.

When people work together to analyze a data set, they need to organize their 
findings, hypotheses, and evidence, share that information with their 
collaborators, and coordinate activities amongst team members. Sharing 
externalizations (recorded information such as notes) could increase awareness 
and assist with team communication and coordination. However, we currently know 
little about how to provide tool support for this sort of sharing. We explore 
how linked common work (LCW) can be employed within a `collaborative thinking 
space', to facilitate synchronous collaborative sensemaking activities in Visual 
Analytics (VA). Collaborative thinking spaces provide an environment for 
analysts to record, organize, share and connect externalizations. Our tool, 
CLIP, extends earlier thinking spaces by integrating LCW features that reveal 
relationships between collaborators' findings. We conducted a user study 
comparing CLIP to a baseline version without LCW. Results demonstrated that LCW 
significantly improved analytic outcomes at a collaborative intelligence task. 
Groups using CLIP were also able to more effectively coordinate their work, and 
held more discussion of their findings and hypotheses. LCW enabled them to 
maintain awareness of each other's activities and findings and link those 
findings to their own work, preventing disruptive oral awareness notifications.

DOI: 10.1109/TVCG.2014.2346573
PMID: 26356877 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1755. IEEE Trans Vis Comput Graph. 2014 Dec;20(12):1763-72. doi: 
10.1109/TVCG.2014.2346920.

OpinionFlow: Visual Analysis of Opinion Diffusion on Social Media.

Wu Y, Liu S, Yan K, Liu M, Wu F.

It is important for many different applications such as government and business 
intelligence to analyze and explore the diffusion of public opinions on social 
media. However, the rapid propagation and great diversity of public opinions on 
social media pose great challenges to effective analysis of opinion diffusion. 
In this paper, we introduce a visual analysis system called OpinionFlow to 
empower analysts to detect opinion propagation patterns and glean insights. 
Inspired by the information diffusion model and the theory of selective 
exposure, we develop an opinion diffusion model to approximate opinion 
propagation among Twitter users. Accordingly, we design an opinion flow 
visualization that combines a Sankey graph with a tailored density map in one 
view to visually convey diffusion of opinions among many users. A stacked tree 
is used to allow analysts to select topics of interest at different levels. The 
stacked tree is synchronized with the opinion flow visualization to help users 
examine and compare diffusion patterns across topics. Experiments and case 
studies on Twitter data demonstrate the effectiveness and usability of 
OpinionFlow.

DOI: 10.1109/TVCG.2014.2346920
PMID: 26356890 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1756. J Atten Disord. 2016 Dec;20(12):1047-1055. doi: 10.1177/1087054714522512. Epub 
2014 Feb 24.

The Neuropsychological Profile of Comorbid Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder in 
Adult ADHD.

Antshel KM(1), Biederman J(2), Spencer TJ(2), Faraone SV(3).

Author information:
(1)Syracuse University, Syracuse, NY, USA.
(2)Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(3)State University of New York Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, NY, USA 
sfaraone@childpsychresearch.org.

OBJECTIVE: ADHD and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) are often comorbid yet 
despite the increased comorbidity between the two disorders, to our knowledge, 
no data have been published regarding the neuropsychological profile of adults 
with comorbid ADHD and PTSD. Likewise, previous empirical studies of the 
neuropsychology of PTSD did not control for ADHD status. We sought to fill this 
gap in the literature and to assess the extent to which neuropsychological test 
performance predicted psychosocial functioning, and perceived quality of life.
METHOD: Participants were 201 adults with ADHD attending an outpatient mental 
health clinic between 1998 and 2003 and 123 controls without ADHD. Participants 
completed a large battery of self-report measures and psychological tests. 
Diagnoses were made using data obtained from structured psychiatric interviews 
(i.e., Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV, Schedule for Affective 
Disorders and Schizophrenia for School-Age Children Epidemiologic Version).
RESULTS: Differences emerged between control participants and participants with 
ADHD on multiple neuropsychological tests. Across all tests, control 
participants outperformed participants with ADHD. Differences between the two 
ADHD groups emerged on seven psychological subtests including multiple Wechsler 
Adult Intelligence Scale-Third edition and Rey-Osterrieth Complex Figure Test 
measures. These test differences did not account for self-reported quality of 
life differences between groups.
CONCLUSION: The comorbidity with PTSD in adults with ADHD is associated with 
weaker cognitive performance on several tasks that appear related to 
spatial/perceptual abilities and fluency. Neuropsychological test performances 
may share variance with the quality of life variables yet are not mediators of 
the quality of life ratings.

© The Author(s) 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/1087054714522512
PMID: 24567364 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1757. Am J Lifestyle Med. 2016 Nov;10(6):422-428. doi: 10.1177/1559827614550779. Epub 
2014 Nov 10.

Nedley Depression Hit Hypothesis: Identifying Depression and Its Causes.

Nedley N(1), Ramirez FE(1).

Author information:
(1)Medical Director (NN), Nedley Clinic, Ardmore, Oklahoma.

Depression is often diagnosed using the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of 
Mental Disorders Fifth Edition (DSM-5) criteria. We propose how certain 
lifestyle choices and non-modifiable factors can predict the development of 
depression. We identified 10 cause categories (hits or "blows" to the brain) and 
theorize that four or more active hits could trigger a depression episode. 
Methods. A sample of 4271 participants from our community-based program (70% 
female; ages 17-94 years) was assessed at baseline and at the eighth week of the 
program using a custom test. Ten cause categories were examined as predictors of 
depression are (1) Genetic, (2)Developmental, (3)Lifestyle, (4)Circadian Rhythm, 
(5)Addiction, (6)Nutrition, (7)Toxic, (8)Social/Complicated Grief, (9)Medical 
Condition, and (10)Frontal Lobe. Results. The relationship between the DSM-5 
score and a person having four hits categories in the first program week showed 
a sensitivity of 89.98 % (95% CI: 89.20 % - 90.73%), specificity 48.84% (CI 
45.94-51.75) and Matthew Correlation Coefficient (MCC) .41 . For the eight-week 
test, the results showed a sensitivity 83.6% (CI 81.9-85.5), specificity 53.7% 
(CI 51.7-55.6) and MCC .38. Overall, the hits that improved the most from 
baseline after the eighth week were: Nutrition (47%), Frontal lobe (36%), 
Addiction (24%), Circadian rhythm (24%), Lifestyle (20%), Social (12%) and 
Medical (10%). Conclusions. The Nedley four-hit hypothesis seems to predict a 
depressive episode and correlates well with the DSM-5 criteria with good 
sensitivity and MCC but less specificity. Identifying these factors and applying 
lifestyle therapies could play an important role in the treatment of depressed 
individuals.

DOI: 10.1177/1559827614550779
PMCID: PMC5103329
PMID: 27885322